
--- Strana 1 ---

--- Strana 2 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 3 ---
DEEP LEARNING CRASH COURSE
A Hands-On, Project-Based Introduction to
Artificial Intelligence
by Giovanni Volpe, Benjamin Midtvedt, Jesús
Pineda, Henrik Klein Moberg, Harshith
Bachimanchi, Joana B. Pereira, and Carlo Manzo
no starch press®
San Francisco
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 4 ---
DEEP LEARNING CRASH COURSE. Copyright © 2026 by Giovanni Volpe, Benjamin
Midtvedt, Jesús Pineda, Henrik Klein Moberg, Harshith Bachimanchi, Joana B. Pereira, and
Carlo Manzo.
All rights reserved. No part of this work may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by
any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any information
storage or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of the copyright owner and the
publisher.
First printing
29 28 27 26 25      1 2 3 4 5
ISBN-13: 978-1-7185-0392-2 (print)
ISBN-13: 978-1-7185-0393-9 (ebook)
Published by No Starch Press®, Inc.
245 8th Street, San Francisco, CA 94103
phone: +1.415.863.9900
www.nostarch.com; info@nostarch.com
Publisher: William Pollock
Managing Editor: Jill Franklin
Production Manager: Sabrina Plomitallo-González
Production Editor: Miles Bond
Developmental Editors: Annie Choi and Ryan Frankel
Cover Illustrator: Garry Booth
Interior Design: Octopod Studios
Technical Reviewer: Wylie Ahmed
Copyeditor: Sharon Wilkey
Proofreader: Audrey Doyle
Library of Congress Control Number: 2025027767
For customer service inquiries, please contact info@nostarch.com. For information on
distribution, bulk sales, corporate sales, or translations: sales@nostarch.com. For permission to
translate this work: rights@nostarch.com. To report counterfeit copies or piracy:
counterfeit@nostarch.com. The authorized representative in the EU for product safety and
compliance is EU Compliance Partner, Pärnu mnt. 139b-14, 11317 Tallinn, Estonia,
hello@eucompliancepartner.com, +3375690241.
No Starch Press and the No Starch Press iron logo are registered trademarks of No Starch
Press, Inc. Other product and company names mentioned herein may be the trademarks of their
respective owners. Rather than use a trademark symbol with every occurrence of a trademarked

--- Strana 5 ---
name, we are using the names only in an editorial fashion and to the benefit of the trademark
owner, with no intention of infringement of the trademark.
The information in this book is distributed on an “As Is” basis, without warranty. While every
precaution has been taken in the preparation of this work, neither the authors nor No Starch
Press, Inc. shall have any liability to any person or entity with respect to any loss or damage
caused or alleged to be caused directly or indirectly by the information contained in it.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 6 ---
About the Authors
Giovanni Volpe is a professor in the physics department of the
University of Gothenburg, Sweden, and head of the Soft Matter Lab.
His research interests include deep learning, brain connectivity,
statistical mechanics, and soft matter. He has authored more than 200
articles and reviews on these topics and has co-authored two books. He
has also developed several software packages for microscopy
(DeepTrack), deep learning (Deeplay), and brain connectivity (BRAPH).
Benjamin Midtvedt earned his PhD at the University of Gothenburg
with a focus on enhancing microscopy through deep learning. His
research has centered on the development of accessible and practical AI
optimized to the needs of the user. He has also been the lead developer
of several Python-based open source deep learning frameworks,
including DeepTrack and Deeplay.
Jesús Pineda earned his PhD in physics at the University of
Gothenburg with a focus on the intersection of deep learning and
computer vision. He has co-authored several articles in high-impact
journals on the application of deep learning to glean insights from
microscopy data. He is also a core developer of the deep learning
software packages DeepTrack and Deeplay.
Henrik Klein Moberg received his PhD from Chalmers University of
Technology, Sweden, where he specialized in the integration of AI with
the physical sciences. His research focused on applying deep learning
techniques to nanofluidic microscopy and nanophotonics, aiming to
enhance the precision and efficiency of these technologies. He has also
organized and spoken at numerous conferences related to AI and
scientific data analysis.
Harshith Bachimanchi completed his PhD at the University of
Gothenburg on the integration of holographic microscopy and deep
learning to better understand marine microorganisms. He has applied

--- Strana 7 ---
deep learning techniques and experimental optics to track both
biological and synthetic particles, enhancing our understanding of these
complex systems. He has also developed simulations demonstrating the
applications of deep learning in microscopy.
Joana B. Pereira is an associate professor at Karolinska Institute,
Sweden, where she focuses on investigating new biomarkers for
neurodegenerative disorders, in particular Alzheimer’s disease. Since
2020, she has organized an annual interdisciplinary conference called
Emerging Topics in Artificial Intelligence in San Diego, California. She
is the scientific coordinator for NeurotechEU and winner of the 2021
de Leon Prize for best neuroimaging article on Alzheimer’s disease.
Carlo Manzo is an associate professor at the University of Vic, Spain,
where he leads the Quantitative Bioimaging Lab. His research is
dedicated to the analysis of biophysical processes, merging deep
learning techniques with state-of-the-art imaging technologies to
achieve single-molecule sensitivity. He is the founder of the Anomalous
Diffusion Challenge and winner of the 2017 E. Pérez Payá Prize from
the Sociedad de Biofísica de España.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 8 ---
About the Technical Reviewer
Wylie Ahmed is a CNRS researcher at the Laboratoire de Physique
Théorique and the Centre de Biologie Intégrative at the University of
Toulouse, France, where he leads the Soft, Living, and Active Matter
Lab. His research focuses on biological physics, statistical mechanics,
and nonequilibrium systems, using a combined experimental and
theoretical approach. In 2023, he received the Irwin Oppenheim Award
from the American Physical Society.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 9 ---
BRIEF CONTENTS
Acknowledgments
Introduction
Chapter 1: Building and Training Your First Neural Network
Chapter 2: Capturing Trends and Recognizing Patterns with Dense
Neural Networks
Chapter 3: Processing Images with Convolutional Neural Networks
Chapter 4: Enhancing, Generating, and Analyzing Data with
Autoencoders
Chapter 5: Segmenting and Analyzing Images with U-Nets
Chapter 6: Training Neural Networks with Self-Supervised Learning
Chapter 7: Processing Time Series and Language with Recurrent
Neural Networks
Chapter 8: Processing Language and Classifying Images with Attention
and Transformers
Chapter 9: Creating and Transforming Images with Generative
Adversarial Networks
Chapter 10: Implementing Generative AI with Diffusion Models
Chapter 11: Modeling Molecules and Complex Systems with Graph
Neural Networks
Chapter 12: Continuously Improving Performance with Active
Learning
Chapter 13: Mastering Decision-Making with Deep Reinforcement
Learning
Chapter 14: Predicting Chaos with Reservoir Computing
Conclusion
Index
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 10 ---
CONTENTS IN DETAIL
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
INTRODUCTION
Who Should Read This Book?
This Book’s Approach
Setting Up Your Learning Environment
Obtaining the Data and Code Used in This Book
What’s in This Book?
Online Resources
Time to Start Your Journey
1
BUILDING AND TRAINING YOUR FIRST NEURAL
NETWORK
Classifying Data with a Single Neuron
Classifying 1D Data
Classifying 2D Data
Adding a Bias as Another Dimension
Using Weight Regularization to Stabilize the Training
Using Different Activation Functions
Classifying Data with a Two-Layer Neural Network
Implementing a Dense Neural Network
Training with Error Backpropagation
Attempting an Impossible Classification
Classifying Data with a Three-Layer Neural Network
Project 1A: Classifying Handwritten Digits
Using the MNIST Digit Dataset

--- Strana 11 ---
Implementing the Neural Network
Training and Testing
Making Improvements
Performing Failure Analysis
Summary
Seminal Works and Further Reading
2
CAPTURING TRENDS AND RECOGNIZING PATTERNS
WITH DENSE NEURAL NETWORKS
Regressing Data with a Single Neuron
Regressing 1D Data
Regressing 2D Data
Regressing Data with a Two-Layer Neural Network
Implementing a Dense Neural Network
Training with Error Backpropagation
Training Using Batches
Plotting Predictions vs. Ground Truth
Training with Mini-Batches
Tracking Training Metrics
Randomizing the Batches
Dividing Data into Multiple Datasets
Splitting the Data
Training and Validating the Neural Network
Project 2A: Emulating a Physical System
Loading the Theoretical and Geometrical–Optics Optical
Forces
Loading and Preparing the Training Data
Implementing the Neural Network
Implementing Data Loaders
Training the Neural Network
Evaluating Performance

--- Strana 12 ---
Summary
Seminal Works and Further Reading
3
PROCESSING IMAGES WITH CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL
NETWORKS
Understanding Convolutions
Convolving 1D Data
Convolving 2D Data
Using Convolutions in a Neural Network
Implementing Neural Networks in PyTorch
Defining Convolutional Layers
Adding ReLU Activation
Adding Pooling Layers
Using Upsampling Layers
Transforming Images
Using Dense Layers to Classify Images
Project 3A: Classifying Malaria-Infected Blood Smears
Loading the Malaria Dataset
Classifying with Dense Neural Networks
Classifying with Convolutional Neural Networks
Checking the Values of the Filters
Visualizing Activations of Convolutional Layers
Visualizing Heatmaps
Project 3B: Localizing Microscopic Particles
Loading the Videos
Manually Annotating the Videos
Implementing a Convolutional Neural Network
Training with Annotated Data
Simulating the Training Data
Training with Simulated Data
Project 3C: Creating DeepDreams

--- Strana 13 ---
Loading an Image
Loading a Pretrained Neural Network
Implementing the DeepDreams Algorithm
Using Multiple Layers at Once
Project 3D: Transferring the Style of Images
Loading the Content and Style Images
Loading a Pretrained Neural Network
Implementing Style Transfer
Creating an Image in Gaudí’s Style
Summary
Seminal Works and Further Reading
4
ENHANCING, GENERATING, AND ANALYZING DATA
WITH AUTOENCODERS
Understanding Encoder-Decoders
Implementing a Denoising Encoder-Decoder
Generating the Data
Creating a Simulated Dataset
Defining and Training the Encoder-Decoder
Denoising the Image
Checking for Absence of Mode Collapse
Checking Generalization Capabilities
Retraining
Project 4A: Generating Images with Variational Autoencoders
Understanding Variational Autoencoders
Loading the MNIST Dataset
Training the Variational Autoencoder
Generating Images with the Decoder
Clustering Images with the Encoder
Project 4B: Morphing Images with Wasserstein Autoencoders
Understanding Wasserstein Autoencoders

--- Strana 14 ---
Loading the Fashion-MNIST Dataset
Training the Wasserstein Autoencoder
Reconstructing the Fashion-MNIST Images
Creating New Images
Morphing Images
Project 4C: Detecting Anomalies in ECG Data
Understanding Anomaly Detection
Loading the ECG Dataset
Defining and Training the Autoencoder
Testing with Normal and Anomalous ECGs
Detecting Anomalies
Summary
Seminal Works and Further Reading
5
SEGMENTING AND ANALYZING IMAGES WITH U-NETS
Introducing U-Nets
Understanding Semantic Segmentation with U-Nets
Segmenting Images of Biological Tissues
Loading the Segmented Tissue Images
Creating the Data Pipelines
Defining and Training the U-Net
Plotting the Training Metrics
Preventing Overfitting
Evaluating the Trained U-Net
Project 5A: Detecting Quantum Dots in Fluorescence Images
Loading the Image
Simulating Quantum Dots
Defining and Training the U-Net
Evaluating the Trained U-Net
Project 5B: Counting Cells
Loading the Dataset

--- Strana 15 ---
Creating a Pipeline
Simulating the Cell Images
Implementing and Training the U-Net
Testing the Trained U-Net
Summary
Seminal Works and Further Reading
6
TRAINING NEURAL NETWORKS WITH SELF-
SUPERVISED LEARNING
Understanding Self-Supervised Learning
Self-Supervised Contrastive Learning
Self-Supervised Non-Contrastive Learning
Self-Supervised Geometric Learning
Determining the Position of a Particle in an Image
Creating the Dataset
Learning from Translations
Learning from Flipping the Image
Improving Performance with LodeSTAR
Project 6A: Localizing Mouse Stem Cells with LodeSTAR
Using the Cell Tracking Challenge Dataset
Preparing the Training Crop
Creating the Training Pipeline and Data Loader
Training the Neural Network
Evaluating Performance
Summary
Seminal Works and Further Reading
7
PROCESSING TIME SERIES AND LANGUAGE WITH
RECURRENT NEURAL NETWORKS
Understanding Recurrent Neural Networks

--- Strana 16 ---
Using a Comb Filter
Understanding a Simple Recurrent Neural Network
Predicting Temperature with Recurrent Neural Networks
Loading the Jena Climate Dataset
Preprocessing the Data
Implementing a Commonsense Benchmark
Determining the Computational Device
Predicting with a Simple Recurrent Neural Network
Stacking Multiple Recurrent Layers
Using Gated Recurrent Units
Using Long Short-Term Memory Networks
Project 7A: Translating with Recurrent Neural Networks
Preparing the Bilingual Dataset
Defining the Sequence-to-Sequence Application
Loading Pretrained Embeddings
Training the Sequence-to-Sequence Application
Testing the Model Performance
Evaluating the Model with the BLEU Score
Summary
Seminal Works and Further Reading
8
PROCESSING LANGUAGE AND CLASSIFYING IMAGES
WITH ATTENTION AND TRANSFORMERS
Understanding Attention
Implementing Dot-Product Attention
Visualizing Attention
Making the Attention Mechanism Trainable
Implementing Other Attention Mechanisms
Project 8A: Using Attention to Improve Language Translation
Incorporating Attention
Training and Testing the Seq2Seq Model with Attention

--- Strana 17 ---
Interpreting the Attention Matrix
Project 8B: Performing Sentiment Analysis with a Transformer
Breaking Down Multi-Head Attention
Understanding the Transformer Structure
Loading the IMDb Dataset
Preprocessing the Reviews
Defining the Data Loaders
Building an Encoder-Only Transformer
Training the Model
Evaluating the Trained Model
Project 8C: Classifying Images with a Vision Transformer
Using the CIFAR-10 Dataset
Data Preprocessing
Building the ViT Model
Training and Evaluating the ViT Model
Improving the ViT Model with CutMix
Using a Pretrained ViT Model
Summary
Seminal Works and Further Reading
9
CREATING AND TRANSFORMING IMAGES WITH
GENERATIVE ADVERSARIAL NETWORKS
Understanding GANs
Discriminating Between Real and Fake Data
Generating Realistic Fake Data
Training a GAN
Generating Digits with a GAN
Loading the MNIST Dataset with PyTorch
Defining the Generator and Discriminator
Training the GAN
Plotting the Intermediate Results

--- Strana 18 ---
Plotting the Training Losses
Project 9A: Generating Digits with a Conditional GAN
Defining the Conditional Generator and Discriminator
Training the Conditional GAN
Plotting the Generated Digits
Project 9B: Virtually Staining a Biological Tissue
Downloading the Human Motor Neurons Dataset
Creating a Dataset
Instantiating the Generator and Discriminator
Compiling the Conditional GAN
Training the Conditional GAN
Evaluating the Trained Conditional GAN
Project 9C: Converting Between Holographic and Bright-Field
Microscopy Images
Understanding CycleGANs
Using the Holo2Bright Dataset
Instantiating the CycleGAN Generators and Discriminators
Training the CycleGAN
Evaluating the Trained CycleGAN
Summary
Seminal Works and Further Reading
10
IMPLEMENTING GENERATIVE AI WITH DIFFUSION
MODELS
Understanding Diffusion
Breaking Down Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models
Modeling the Forward Diffusion Process
Deriving the Fast Forward Process
Modeling the Reverse Diffusion Process
Generating Digits with a Diffusion Model
Loading the MNIST Dataset

--- Strana 19 ---
Implementing the Forward Diffusion Process
Applying the Reverse Diffusion Process
Defining the Positional Encoding Function
Instantiating the Attention U-Net
Training the Diffusion Model
Sampling Images from Fixed Noise
Project 10A: Generating Bespoke Digits
Guiding the Diffusion Model
Defining the Conditional Attention U-Net
Training the Conditional Diffusion Model
Plotting the Intermediate Training Results
Project 10B: Generating Images from Text Prompts
Providing a Conditional Text Input
Defining the Conditional Attention U-Net
Training the Conditional Diffusion Model
Plotting the Intermediate Training Results
Training with the CLIP Tokenizer and CLIP Text Encoder
Project 10C: Generating Super-Resolution Images
Downloading the BioSR Dataset
Managing the Dataset
Preprocessing the Images
Creating the Training and Test Datasets
Adapting the Diffusion Process for Super-Resolution
Defining the Conditional Attention U-Net
Training the Conditional Diffusion Model
Summary
Seminal Works and Further Reading
11
MODELING MOLECULES AND COMPLEX SYSTEMS WITH
GRAPH NEURAL NETWORKS
Understanding Graph Convolutions

--- Strana 20 ---
Predicting Molecular Properties with Graph Convolutions
Implementing a Graph Convolution Layer
Representing a Molecule as a Graph
Using the ZINC Dataset
Applying a Graph Convolutional Network
Training the Graph Convolutional Network
Evaluating the Graph Convolutional Network
Predicting Molecular Properties with Message Passing
Implementing a Message-Passing Layer
Implementing a Message-Passing Network
Training and Evaluating the Message-Passing Network
Project 11A: Simulating Complex Physical Phenomena
Working with the SAND Dataset
Building a Graph Network–Based Simulator
Building the Dataset
Training the Model
Testing the Model
Simulating the System
Project 11B: Identifying Cell Trajectories
Exploring the Cell-Tracking Data
Creating a Graph from Segmented Images
Building a Training Dataset
Making MAGIK
Evaluating Performance
Summary
Seminal Works and Further Reading
12
CONTINUOUSLY IMPROVING PERFORMANCE WITH
ACTIVE LEARNING
Understanding Active Learning
Performing Binary Classification

--- Strana 21 ---
Creating a Dataset with Two Groups of Data Points
Classifying the Data Points with a Logistic Regression
Implementing the Active Learning Process
Comparing Random and Uncertainty Sampling Strategies
Performing Multiclass Classification
Creating a Dataset with Three Groups of Data Points
Implementing the Active Learning Process with Multiple
Classes
Comparing Sampling Strategies
Project 12A: Classifying MNIST Digits with Active Learning
Training a Baseline Model
Implementing Multiple Active Learning Strategies
Comparing the Performance of the Active Learning Strategies
Summary
Seminal Works and Further Reading
13
MASTERING DECISION-MAKING WITH DEEP
REINFORCEMENT LEARNING
Understanding Reinforcement Learning and Q-Learning
Implementing Tetris
Constructing a Simplified Tetris
Playing Tetris with the Command Line
Playing Tetris with a Pygame Graphical Interface
Making an Agent Play Tetris with Q-Learning
Adapting the Actions of Tetris for Q-Learning
Implementing the Q-Learning Agent
Training the Q-Learning Agent
Training with a Random Tile Sequence
Making an Agent Play Tetris with Deep Q-Learning
Understanding Deep Q-Learning
Implementing the Deep Q-Learning Agent

--- Strana 22 ---
Training the Deep Q-Learning Agent
Summary
Seminal Works and Further Reading
14
PREDICTING CHAOS WITH RESERVOIR COMPUTING
Introducing Reservoir Computing
Defining the Lorenz System
Numerically Integrating the Lorenz System
Visualizing Time Evolution
Visualizing the Lorenz Attractor
Demonstrating the Butterfly Effect
Implementing a Reservoir Computer
Setting Up the Reservoir
Preparing the Training and Validation Data
Training the Reservoir Computer
Evaluating the Performance of the Reservoir Computer
Summary
Seminal Works and Further Reading
CONCLUSION
INDEX
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 23 ---
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Writing a book on deep learning is a lot like training a neural network.
It’s an endless cycle of tweaking parameters, second-guessing decisions,
and resisting the urge to rage-quit and take up gardening instead, like
when we decided to switch all the code from TensorFlow to PyTorch
after completing the first draft of the book, because who doesn’t love
rewriting everything from scratch?
Fortunately, we weren’t alone in this process. Along the way, we had
the support, advice, and much-needed sarcasm of many brilliant people
who kept us from overfitting to our own ideas (and reminded us to
occasionally get some sleep). This book is as much a result of their
contributions as it is of our own efforts.
First of all, we’d like to thank all the students who survived our deep
learning courses over the years—starting at ETH Zurich and making
stops at the Institute of Photonic Sciences (ICFO), the Singapore-MIT
Alliance for Science and Technology, Sorbonne University, FEMTO-
ST, Chalmers University of Technology, the University of Gothenburg,
and more. Your curiosity, feedback, and unyielding patience have
continuously improved not just the courses themselves but also the
material that inspired this book. You all made sure we stayed on our toes
and constantly reminded us that “just one more line of code” rarely ends
at just one line; it’s often the start of a debugging rabbit hole that only
bottomless cups of coffee can conquer.
A special shout-out to Lucio Isa at ETH, who casually suggested we
organize a PhD course, accidentally setting off a chain of events that
ultimately led to this book. Lucio, this is all your fault!
Also, a big thank-you to our scientific collaborators and colleagues,
whose brilliant ideas, tough questions, and occasional well-timed reality
checks kept us from disappearing completely into the deep learning
abyss. Your insights and feedback sharpened our work, inspired many of
the examples and metaphors scattered throughout these pages, and

--- Strana 24 ---
reminded us that no matter how deep the neural network, there’s always
room for one more layer of constructive criticism. It turns out that
arguing about activation functions and the philosophical implications of
AI over coffee is, in fact, a legitimate path to progress. We couldn’t have
done it without you—at least not without sounding a lot more confused.
Huge thanks to No Starch Press and its team for believing in this
idea and for not laughing us out of the room when we first pitched it
with the improbable title “Hello, Deep Learning!” In particular, thanks
to Bill Pollock, founder and president of NSP, for immediately backing
the project after our very first chat. Thanks also to Jill Franklin,
managing editor, for guiding us with infinite patience and ensuring that
every page reached the highest standard of quality. Special thanks to
Miles Bond for expert production editing, and to Sharon Wilkey for
meticulous copyediting, both of whom significantly improved the clarity
and quality of our text. Big thanks to Annie Choi and Ryan Frankel for
their meticulous editing, which not only smoothed out our typos and
occasional questionable grammar choices but also clarified the meaning
of entire sections that, as it turned out, weren’t as crystal clear as we
thought.
We’re also grateful to Wylie Ahmed for his razor-sharp technical
review, making sure our equations actually worked and our code
wouldn’t make anyone’s computer spontaneously combust.
A big thank-you also to the European Research Council under the
European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation program and
the Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation for their funding that has
permitted us to dedicate a substantial amount of time to writing this
book.
And, of course, to our families and friends—thanks for putting up
with us and enduring our late-night coding sessions, countless eureka
moments, and occasional existential crises, and for pretending to
understand why we were doing what we were doing for the past couple
of years. Without your unwavering support, this book might still exist,
but it would have taken much longer and made far less sense.
Thank you all!

--- Strana 25 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 26 ---
INTRODUCTION
The deep learning revolution has arrived, and it’s changing our lives in
ways we never imagined. From everyday conveniences to
groundbreaking innovations, deep learning is at the core of many of the
technologies shaping our future. Whether you’re ordering food,
planning your commute, or searching for a playlist, deep learning is
optimizing these experiences behind the scenes. But its impact goes far
beyond these everyday tasks.
Today, deep learning is enabling scientists to design drugs tailored to
specific receptors, accelerating medical breakthroughs and transforming
health care. Large language models (LLMs) like GPT-4 are capable of
generating text and writing code, revolutionizing fields like education,
programming, and research. Deep learning is even reshaping social
interactions, sometimes in unsettling ways, such as AI-powered chatbots
serving as virtual companions or romantic partners.
Whether you need to learn deep learning for your career or are just
curious about how it works, this book is for you. It covers everything
from basic concepts to advanced problem-solving tools, equipping you
to understand deep learning so that you can go from being a passive
user to someone who can control and optimize this technique for your
own unique needs.

--- Strana 27 ---
Although the terms deep learning, machine learning, and artificial
intelligence are often used interchangeably, they’re different. Artificial
intelligence (AI) refers to any technique used to create systems capable of
performing cognitive tasks that usually require human intelligence, such
as recognizing faces, understanding speech, making complex decisions,
or translating languages. Examples of AI that don’t involve machine
learning include rule-based systems and expert systems used in medical
diagnosis (remember IBM Watson?).
Machine learning is a branch of AI where computers use algorithms
to learn from data and make predictions. Importantly, not all forms of
machine learning fall under deep learning—for example, the decision
trees and support vector machines that were popular in the early 2000s.
In turn, deep learning is a branch of machine learning that uses neural
networks, typically with many layers of artificial neurons (hence the
term deep). The ability of deep learning to learn directly from data
makes it effective for solving a wide range of problems, from
recognizing objects in images and videos, to translating spoken and
written languages, to playing complex strategy games like Go. Notable
applications encompass advanced conversational agents like ChatGPT,
image-generation models like DALL-E, and protein structure
prediction tools like AlphaFold.
With its foundation in neural network research from the 1950s to
the 1980s, deep learning gained momentum after breakthroughs in the
early 2000s and exploded in popularity in the mid-2010s. This
revolution was fueled by gamers and social networks. As increasingly
powerful graphics processing units (GPUs) were developed for gaming,
social media provided a gold mine of data for training models. The
turning point came in 2012 when a deep learning model, AlexNet, won
the ImageNet Large Scale Visual Recognition Challenge. ImageNet is a
large database of annotated images. The competition involves
developing models to accurately classify and detect objects within these
images. AlexNet’s success demonstrated the potential of deep learning,
leading to its widespread adoption in just a few years.
The rapid development of AI brought about by these
transformations has led to all sorts of sensational conjectures: the

--- Strana 28 ---
utopian remaking of society, vast economic disruption, and even
humanity’s extermination. In this environment, understanding AI has
never been more crucial, and the best way to grasp its nuances is
through direct experience. This direct experience should also convince
you that, despite predictions of doom and gloom, the most creative and
purposeful aspects of our lives and careers will likely remain uniquely
human for a long time.
This book is designed for those eager to dive into deep learning
through practical, hands-on experience, without assuming any prior
knowledge of deep learning. Each chapter is structured around
examples and projects that are computationally manageable on standard
hardware yet realistic in scope. Even so, readers will understand and
implement the latest advancements in the field, such as diffusion models
for generating high-resolution images and vision transformers (ViTs)
for image classification.
Who Should Read This Book?
Whether you’re an engineer optimizing models, a scientist seeking new
data analysis tools, a doctor looking to automate diagnostics, an artist
exploring psychedelic image transformations, or simply an AI enthusiast
wanting to learn more, you’ll find something here for you.
To get the most out of this book, you’ll need a basic understanding
of programming, ideally in Python, which is the language we’ll use
throughout this book. If you have experience in other programming
languages like C/C++, Matlab, or R, you’ll be able to quickly familiarize
yourself with Python.
If you know how to write a for loop and define a function, you’re
ready to start. You should also be comfortable working with data
structures like lists, dictionaries, and sets, as well as using libraries such
as NumPy and Matplotlib for numerical data manipulation and
visualization. You should also be familiar with reading and writing files,
handling exceptions, and debugging your code efficiently by using tools
like print statements or debugging environments. If you’ve written
programs using classes and objects, you’re ahead of the game. Along the

--- Strana 29 ---
way, you’ll encounter more-advanced concepts, like context managers
and hooks, as needed. By the end of this book, you’ll not only gain a
strong grasp of deep learning but also become a better programmer.
If you’d like an introduction to Python, consider Python Crash
Course, 3rd edition, by Eric Matthes (No Starch Press, 2023). Another
great companion to this practical guide is Deep Learning: A Visual
Approach by Andrew Glassner (No Starch Press, 2021), which provides
intuitive explanations of the key deep learning concepts.
Beyond programming, some familiarity with high school–level math
will be helpful, particularly with concepts like basic algebra, probability,
and statistics. However, for a deeper understanding of the algorithms
and models discussed in later chapters, knowledge of linear algebra and
calculus will be important. While readers with prior exposure will find it
easier to grasp the more advanced concepts, don’t worry if you’re rusty
or new to these topics; we’ll introduce the necessary concepts you need
at the intuitive level as we go along, without overwhelming you with too
much mathematical notation.
If you’re looking to bolster your mathematical foundations
specifically for deep learning applications, consider reading Math for
Deep Learning by Ronald T. Kneusel (No Starch Press, 2021) or Machine
Learning with Neural Networks: An Introduction for Scientists and Engineers
by Bernhard Mehlig (Cambridge University Press, 2021).
This Book’s Approach
We believe that the best way to learn deep learning is by coding. For
this reason, this book is organized around self-contained examples and
projects that progress from simple to complex. As a result, you’ll receive
all the benefits of sequential learning while also having the freedom to
explore each topic independently.
As you embark on this journey, it’s important to recognize that deep
learning frameworks continuously evolve, but their core principles
remain consistent. This book primarily uses PyTorch, currently the
most popular deep learning framework, along with Lightning and
Deeplay for added convenience. However, the fundamental concepts,

--- Strana 30 ---
techniques, and insights you will gain are transferable across various
frameworks. In an ever-evolving landscape, they will empower you to
choose the best tools for your projects as well as transition between
them, easing your learning curve when the next deep learning
framework emerges.
Setting Up Your Learning Environment
Before diving into deep learning, you’ll have to set up your learning
environment. For software, you’ll need Python. Python is an accessible,
versatile programming language widely used in data science and
machine learning because of its readability and extensive libraries. To
install Python, you need to download the latest stable version from the
official website (https://www.python.org). On the official Python
documentation page (https://docs.python.org), you’ll find detailed
installation instructions for Microsoft Windows, Apple macOS, and
Linux.
You’ll also need various deep learning libraries, which you can install
as they get imported in each example. The Python libraries you’ll most
frequently use are NumPy, essential for numerical computations and
array operations, and Matplotlib, for creating visualizations and plots.
You can easily install these libraries via the Python package manager by
typing pip install numpy matplotlib in your terminal or command prompt.
Python code can be written in any text editor and executed directly
from the command line or terminal without compiling, making
development quick and interactive. While simple text editors can be
sufficient, using dedicated resources greatly enhances productivity and
provides useful tools for debugging, version control, and code
management. In particular, Jupyter Notebooks (https://jupyter.org)
provide interactive interfaces for executing Python code block by block,
ideal for exploratory analysis and visualization.
It might also be helpful to use dedicated development environments,
such as Visual Studio Code (VS Code, https://code.visualstudio.com),
which is a powerful, lightweight code editor that supports Python
through numerous extensions, including linting, debugging, and Git

--- Strana 31 ---
integration. Online environments like Google Colab
(https://colab.research.google.com) and Kaggle Notebooks
(https://www.kaggle.com/code) will allow you to run Python code and
notebooks directly from your browser.
For hardware, any computer with a recent, powerful GPU will be
sufficient. Most examples will run in minutes, although the more
computationally expensive ones might take a few hours. While you can
use a central processing unit (CPU) for most tasks, some examples
(especially those involving generative adversarial networks, or GANs,
and diffusion models) become too computationally expensive without a
GPU. You can run those examples in Google Colab or Kaggle, which
provide free (although limited) access to powerful cloud hardware
resources like GPUs and tensor processing units (TPUs).
Obtaining the Data and Code Used in This Book
You can find all necessary data and example code in the book’s GitHub
repository at https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
To get started, here are some guidelines to download and set up the
repository.
To set up manually from GitHub, follow these steps:
1. Visit the repository page.
2. Click Code and select Download ZIP.
3. Extract the ZIP file in your desired folder.
To download using GitHub Desktop, follow these steps:
1. Download and install GitHub Desktop from
https://desktop.github.com.
2. Open GitHub Desktop and sign in with your GitHub account.
3. Click Clone a repository from the Internet.
4. Enter the repository URL,
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse, and

--- Strana 32 ---
select a local path to clone it to.
5. Click Clone.
To download using the command line, take these steps:
1. Open your terminal or command prompt.
2. Navigate to the directory where you want to clone the repository.
3. Run the command git clone
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.git.
Once you have downloaded the repository, navigate to the relevant
chapter folders to find the code and data for each project. For further
instructions, read the README files within each folder.
What’s in This Book?
Each chapter of this book progressively builds your understanding of
deep learning. The first two chapters provide a fundamental
introduction to neural networks, assuming no prior knowledge—
essential reading for those new to the field. Best studied sequentially, the
following chapters progress through increasingly advanced topics,
including state-of-the-art techniques and innovations. The final three
chapters are more independent, highlighting complementary methods
essential to a well-rounded understanding of deep learning as a whole.
Most chapters include hands-on projects designed to be self-
contained so you can focus on the topics that interest you most or that
align with your goals. Here’s a closer look at each chapter’s content:
Chapter 1: Building and Training Your First Neural Network 
You’ll explore the basics of neural networks, starting with single
neurons and gradually building up to multilayer dense networks.
You’ll learn about activation functions, weight regularization, and
training using backpropagation, culminating in the practical project
of classifying handwritten digits from the MNIST dataset.

--- Strana 33 ---
Chapter 2: Capturing Trends and Recognizing Patterns with
Dense Neural Networks  You’ll focus on regression problems,
which involve predicting continuous values rather than categories,
thus using neural networks to predict continuous outputs. Starting
with simple single-neuron models, you’ll progress to complex
multilayer networks, learning about mini-batch training and
evaluation metrics to improve and validate your models. You’ll then
apply your acquired knowledge to simulate data by using a digital
twin.
Chapter 3: Processing Images with Convolutional Neural
Networks  Convolutional neural networks are powerful tools for
image-processing tasks. You’ll learn the fundamentals of
convolutions with 1D and 2D data. Then, you’ll implement these
networks in PyTorch, combining convolutional, activation, pooling,
and upsampling layers. This chapter’s projects include classifying
malaria-infected blood smears, localizing microscopic particles,
creating DeepDreams, and transferring the style of images.
Chapter 4: Enhancing, Generating, and Analyzing Data with
Autoencoders  You’ll encounter encoder-decoder architectures,
essential tools for tasks involving data compression and generation.
Through practical examples, you’ll explore denoising autoencoders,
variational autoencoders, and Wasserstein autoencoders, which will
teach you how to manipulate and generate data in latent spaces as
well as how to detect anomalies.
Chapter 5: Segmenting and Analyzing Images with U-Nets 
U-Nets are specialized neural networks designed for image-
transformation tasks. You’ll learn their architecture and training
process through projects such as segmenting images of biological
tissues, detecting diffraction-limited features in fluorescence images,
and counting cells in biomedical datasets.
Chapter 6: Training Neural Networks with Self-Supervised
Learning  Self-supervised learning uses the data itself to generate
labels for training. You’ll explore techniques to exploit symmetries

--- Strana 34 ---
in data, using methods like translations and reflections to improve
model performance. Projects focus on particle localization.
Chapter 7: Processing Time Series and Language with
Recurrent Neural Networks  Recurrent neural networks are
crucial for analyzing sequential data. You’ll see the implementation
of basic recurrent neural networks, gated recurrent units (GRUs),
and long short-term memory (LSTM) networks, applying them to
time-series forecasting, such as temperature prediction. You’ll also
use them to implement a simple text translator.
Chapter 8: Processing Language and Classifying Images with
Attention and Transformers  Transformers using attention
mechanisms have revolutionized sequence-processing tasks,
especially in natural language processing (NLP). You’ll learn how
attention and transformers work and apply them in tasks like
sentiment analysis and image classification, using state-of-the-art
models like ViT. You’ll also use the attention mechanism to improve
the text translator implemented in Chapter 7.
Chapter 9: Creating and Transforming Images with Generative
Adversarial Networks  Generative adversarial networks (GANs)
are powerful tools for generating synthetic data. You’ll learn the
architecture and training process of GANs, with practical projects
including generating new images from the MNIST dataset, virtually
staining a biological tissue, and transforming microscopic images.
Chapter 10: Implementing Generative AI with Diffusion
Models  Diffusion models provide a powerful framework for data
representation and exploration, often exceeding the performance of
GANs. This chapter introduces these models and their applications,
such as generating new images from the MNIST dataset, generating
images from text prompts, and improving the resolution of
microscopic images.
Chapter 11: Modeling Molecules and Complex Systems with
Graph Neural Networks  Graph neural networks extend neural
networks to graph-structured data. You’ll explore the basics of graph

--- Strana 35 ---
convolutions and message passing, applying graph neural networks
to tasks like predicting molecular properties, simulating complex
physical phenomena, and identifying trajectories.
Chapter 12: Continuously Improving Performance with Active
Learning  Active learning strategies are essential for efficient
model training, optimizing the use of labeled data. You’ll discover
active learning techniques and their implementation, focusing on
how to continuously improve models by selecting the most
informative data points for training.
Chapter 13: Mastering Decision-Making with Deep
Reinforcement Learning  Reinforcement learning is used for
optimizing strategies in dynamic environments. You’ll learn the
fundamentals of reinforcement learning by teaching an agent to play
the classic game of Tetris.
Chapter 14: Predicting Chaos with Reservoir Computing 
Reservoir computing is a framework for dealing with complex,
chaotic systems. You’ll gain an understanding of the principles of
reservoir computing and apply them to predict chaotic time series,
gaining insights into the dynamics of nonlinear systems.
Online Resources
For additional support and resources, you can visit the book’s GitHub
repository at https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Here, you’ll find tips, code examples, and extra materials that
complement the content of each chapter.
In addition, all figures from the book are available in color through
the online resources. Readers who purchase the book directly from No
Starch Press receive the color ebook automatically, but those who
purchase it through other online retailers or in bookshops may not. To
ensure everyone has access to the clearest visual material, the color
images can be freely downloaded from the book’s GitHub repository.
If you run into any issues or have questions, the GitHub repository
offers a discussion forum where you can seek help and engage with the

--- Strana 36 ---
authors and other readers. You can also use the Issues section to ask
questions, report problems, and clarify any confusion about the code
examples. This interactive platform ensures that you have continuous
support throughout your learning journey, allowing you to fully benefit
from the hands-on approach of this book.
Your feedback is invaluable. Please feel free to contribute your
thoughts and suggestions on the GitHub repository. Your input will
help improve the materials and provide a better learning experience for
everyone.
Time to Start Your Journey
Now it’s time to embark on your quest to understand deep learning. As
you dive into the concepts and projects within this book, you’ll gain not
only the knowledge and practical skills necessary to wield powerful deep
learning tools but also a nuanced understanding of the technology’s
potential and pitfalls that will help you navigate the fascinating world of
AI. Whether you’re driven by curiosity, passion, or ambition, this
journey will empower you to play an active role in the deep learning
revolution—and maybe even shape its future. So, roll up your sleeves,
fire up your neural networks, and let’s get started!
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 37 ---
1
BUILDING AND TRAINING YOUR FIRST
NEURAL NETWORK
In this chapter, you’ll learn how to implement an artificial neuron and
connect multiple neurons into a dense neural network. Then you’ll train
dense neural networks to classify points in a plane by implementing the
backpropagation algorithm.
This training method is an example of supervised learning, a type of
machine learning that trains a model on labeled data. In supervised
learning, each input is associated with an output, or target, and the
neural network learns by iteratively adjusting its parameters to minimize
the difference between its predictions and the actual outputs.
By the end of this chapter, you’ll be able to build a dense neural
network to classify the images of handwritten digits in the Modified
National Institute of Standards and Technology (MNIST) dataset—a
classic initiation for anyone working in deep learning. Mastering the
MNIST dataset classification isn’t just a deep learning milestone but
also a stepping stone to more-advanced topics like regression, paving
your way toward further exploration and more-advanced applications in
the chapters ahead.

--- Strana 38 ---
Classifying Data with a Single Neuron
An artificial neuron is a computational unit inspired by the biological
neurons found in many multicellular animals. Figure 1-1 illustrates a
biological neuron.
Figure 1-1: A biological neuron
Biological neurons are electrically excitable cells that receive
stimulus signals from other neurons through their synapses. When the
synaptic potential of a biological neuron exceeds a certain threshold,
that neuron emits an electric signal that, in turn, can excite or inhibit
other neurons.
Figure 1-2 shows an artificial neuron that emulates this behavior.
This is a simple computational unit that responds to input signals with
an output activation. The output activation is typically a nonlinear
function.

--- Strana 39 ---
Figure 1-2: An artificial neuron
The artificial neuron shown in Figure 1-2 works in this way:
1. It receives a vector of inputs, x = (x0, . . . , xN–1) (corresponding to
the synaptic signals received by a biological neuron).
2. It calculates its activation potential (corresponding to the
synaptic potential)
where w ⋅x = ∑
N−1
0
wnxn is the weighted sum of the inputs, w
= (w0, . . . , wN–1) is the vector of the weights, and b is a bias that
shifts the activation function, enabling more flexibility.
3. Finally, the artificial neuron returns a binary output that is the
result of the activation function operating on the activation
potential (corresponding to the emitted signal)
(1.2)
where H is the Heaviside step function so that y = 0 if p ≤ 0, and y
= 1 if p > 0.
p = w ⋅x + b   (1.1)
y = H (p)

--- Strana 40 ---
In the rest of this section, you’ll write the Python code to implement
a single neuron and solve the problem of classifying the points in a line
or in a plane into two classes, denoted by the labels 0 and 1. You’ll
implement this neuron from scratch, step-by-step, using Python’s basic
NumPy library as well as the Matplotlib library for visualization.
Classifying 1D Data
Using a text editor, open the one-dimensional (1D) dataset from the
data_class_1d_clean.csv file containing comma-separated values, often
abbreviated as CSV (hence the .csv file extension). The first line is the
header, which indicates the label of each column. The first column
contains the input data. The second column contains the respective
classification into the two classes 0 and 1, which are the output, or
target, data.
Loading the Data
Before you can analyze the data, you need to load it. Start by writing the
load_data_1d(filename) function shown in Listing 1-1.
import csv
from numpy import asarray
def load_data_1d(filename):
    """Load 1D data."""
 ➊ with open(filename) as file:
        reader = csv.reader(file)
        header = next(reader)
        data = []
        for row in reader:
            data.append(row)
        data = asarray(data).astype(float)
    x = data[:, 0]  # Input
    y = data[:, 1]  # Output/target/ground truth
    return (x, y)
Listing 1-1: The function to load the 1D data

--- Strana 41 ---
This function returns the input (x) and output (y) data in the form of
NumPy arrays. They both have the same shape, with a single dimension
that corresponds to the number of samples in the dataset. (The with
statement ➊ ensures that the file is automatically closed when the code
execution is done with it.)
It’s convenient to create a Python package containing the
load_data_1d() function. To do so, simply place it in a file named loader.py
in the same folder as your code. Then you can import it via the
following statement:
from loader import load_data_1d
You can then use this function to load the data with
(x, y_gt) = load_data_1d(filename="data_class_1d_clean.csv")
which saves the input data in the variable x and the output data in the
variable y_gt, where gt stands for ground truth, which corresponds to the
expected results. Using this variable name permits you to distinguish it
from the predictions made by the neuron, which you’ll denote as y_p,
where p stands for predicted.
Verifying and Visualizing the Data
Before proceeding further, it’s good practice to verify that the data has
been loaded correctly. First, you can verify that the lengths of the input
and output data are equal by using the commands print(len(x)) and
print(len(y_gt)), which should both print 10. Then you can also print their
values with print("x:", x) and print("y_gt:", y_gt), which should display
this:
x: [ 0.69890926 -0.66948353 -1.26176998 -0.39901233 -0.06169857 -0.55097679
 -1.48984407 -0.07923319  0.9727084   0.43455583]
y_gt: [1. 0. 0. 0. 1. 0. 0. 1. 1. 1.]
Note that these are all floating-point numbers, even though y_gt
acquires only values of 0 and 1.
Finally, plot the data using the plot_data_1d() function in Listing 1-2.

--- Strana 42 ---
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
def plot_data_1d(x, y_gt):
    """Plot 1D data."""
    plt.scatter(x, y_gt, s=20, c="k")
    plt.xlabel("x0", fontsize=24)
    plt.ylabel("y", fontsize=24)
    plt.tick_params(axis="both", which="major", labelsize=16)
    plt.show()
Listing 1-2: The function to plot the 1D data
It’s also convenient in this case to create a Python package by
placing the plot_data_1d() function in a file named plotting.py. You can
then import and use it with Listing 1-3.
from plotting import plot_data_1d
plot_data_1d(x, y_gt)
Listing 1-3: Plotting the 1D data
This listing generates the plot shown in Figure 1-3.

--- Strana 43 ---
Figure 1-3: The 1D data for classification
Upon examining this plot, you can easily deduce the simulation
model that produced this dataset. The model uses a step function that
assigns values beneath a certain threshold to 0, while assigning those
above it to 1.
Implementing a Single Neuron
You can now implement your first artificial neuron by using the code
shown in Listing 1-4.
def neuron_clas_1d(w0, x):
    """Artificial neuron for 1D classification."""
    return (w0 * x > 0).astype(int)
Listing 1-4: An artificial neuron for 1D classification
This function represents a single neuron with one input (x) and one
weight (w0). This neuron returns a binary output equal to 1 (true) if w0 *
x > 0, and equal to 0 (false) otherwise. Since the result of the w0 * x > 0
operation is a logical value, it needs to be converted to a numerical form

--- Strana 44 ---
for further use in the neural network; this is done by the astype(int)
function.
You can randomly initialize the weight of the neuron via Listing 1-5.
from numpy.random import default_rng
rng = default_rng()
w0 = rng.standard_normal()
Listing 1-5: Initializing the weight of the neuron
This code first creates an instance of the default Python random-
number generator (rng). Next, it creates the w0 weight for the neuron
sampled from a standard normal distribution by using
rng.standard_normal() to return a Gaussian random number with zero
mean and unitary variance.
You obtain the prediction of this neuron for the x input by using the
randomly initialized w0 weight with Listing 1-6.
y_p = neuron_clas_1d(w0, x)
Listing 1-6: Obtaining a prediction from the neuron
This code returns the prediction y_p of the class corresponding to x.
Note that this calculates the predictions of the neuron for all the inputs
contained in the NumPy array x at the same time.
Now let’s test how well this neuron performs its task (even though
your expectations shouldn’t be very high, as the neuron is randomly
initialized). To do this, you can expand the plot_data_1d() function in
Listing 1-2 to also plot the predicted results as crosses, resulting in the
plot_pred_1d() function in Listing 1-7, which you should also add to your
plotting.py Python package.
def plot_pred_1d(x, y_gt, y_p):
    """Plot 1D data and predictions."""
    --snip--
    plt.scatter(x, y_gt, s=20, c="k", label="ground truth")
    plt.scatter(x, y_p, s=100, c="tab:orange", marker="x", label="predicted")

--- Strana 45 ---
    plt.legend(fontsize=20)
    --snip--
Listing 1-7: The function to plot both the 1D data and the predictions (by modifying Listing
1-2)
NOTE
In this listing, bold highlights changes from the earlier version of the
code. We’ll use this convention in modified listings throughout the book
so you can quickly spot what’s new.
Then import this function and use it to plot the predictions of the
neuron with Listing 1-8.
from plotting import plot_pred_1d
plot_pred_1d(x, y_gt, y_p=neuron_clas_1d(w0, x))
Listing 1-8: Plotting both the 1D data and the predictions
In this way, you should get a plot similar to Figure 1-4.
Figure 1-4: Predictions from a randomly initialized neuron

--- Strana 46 ---
Since the neuron is randomly initialized, its prediction will often be
wrong. In fact, since the neuron output is binary, it can produce only
two sets of results depending on the sign of w0.
Training the Neuron
If you want to get useful predictions, you need to train your neuron.
Given two sets of points to be classified, you can train the weights (and
bias, if present) of your artificial neuron iteratively by following these
steps:
1. Initialize the weights w (and bias b) with random values (typically,
it’s good if these values are of order 1 to ease convergence). This
was done when initializing the weight of the neuron in Listing 1-
5. (In the case you are currently considering, the neuron has the
single w0 weight and no bias.)
2. Choose at random a point x from one of the two sets, and call ~y
the corresponding desired output (which can assume a value of 0
or 1).
3. Calculate the output with the current weights (and bias), using
Equations 1.1 and 1.2—that is, y = H(w · x + b).
4. If y = ~y, the prediction is correct. So, you don’t need to do
anything. Just iterate from step 2.
5. If y ≠~y, the prediction is incorrect. So, you should update the
weights as w →w −η (y −~y)x (and the bias as b →b −η (y −~y)
), where η ∈ (0, 1] is the learning rate. Then iterate from step 2.
Listing 1-9 implements this algorithm to train a single neuron with
one input and a binary output (and without bias).
num_samples = len(x)
num_train_iterations = 100
eta = .1  # Learning rate
for i in range(num_train_iterations):
 ➊ selected = rng.integers(0, num_samples)  # Select random sample

--- Strana 47 ---
    x0_selected = x[selected]
    y_gt_selected = y_gt[selected]
    y_p_selected = neuron_clas_1d(w0, x0_selected)  # Neuron prediction
    error = y_p_selected - y_gt_selected  # Calculate error
 
    w0 = w0 - eta * error * x0_selected  # Update neuron weight
    print(f"i={i} w0={w0:.2f} error={error:.2f}")
Listing 1-9: Training a single neuron for binary classification
The two most important parameters of the training are the number
of iterations (num_train_iterations), set to 100, which is sufficient for this
problem as determined through trial and error, and the learning rate
(eta), set to .1. During each iteration, the code selects a random sample
among the available ones ➊ (returning a random integer between 0 and
number_samples - 1, extremes included) and prints the intermediate results
of the training at the end of the iteration. You’ll notice that the error is
always +1, 0, or -1, reflecting the binary nature of the classification
results, and the value of w0 becomes stably positive after a while,
indicating the convergence of the learning algorithm.
NOTE
The learning rate is a very important parameter. When setting it,
there’s a trade-off between the rate of convergence and the risk of
overshooting. If the learning rate is too high, the learning process will
jump over minima. If the rate is too low, the learning process will take
too long to converge or get stuck in undesirable local minima.
Therefore, to achieve faster convergence while avoiding oscillations and
local minima, the learning rate is often varied during training either
in accordance with a learning rate schedule or by using an adaptive
learning rate.

--- Strana 48 ---
You can now plot the performance of the trained neuron with the
plot_pred_1d() function (Listing 1-8), which generates Figure 1-5.
Figure 1-5: Predictions by a trained neuron
These results are a marked improvement over the performance of
the untrained neuron you saw in Figure 1-4.
NOTE
Code Example 1-1, “Classifying 1D Data with a Single Neuron,” is
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch01_DNN_classification folder and then
ec01_1_neuron_class_1d. The neuron_class_1d.ipynb notebook
provides a complete code example that loads the data contained in
data_class_1d_clean.csv, trains a neuron to classify it, and finally
uses 
it 
to 
predict 
the 
classification 
of 
the 
data 
in
data_class_1d_clean_test.csv. This code also requires loader.py,
which contains the load_data_1d() function, and plotting.py, which
contains the plot_data_1d() and plot_pred_1d() functions.

--- Strana 49 ---
EXERCISES
1-1:  To observe the lack of training variability, randomly
initialize and train the neuron several times. Why is the trained
neuron’s performance always the same?
1-2:  The neuron can never perfectly predict the data in
data_class_1d_clean.csv. This is because this neuron is far too
simple: With only one trainable parameter (w0), it can converge to
only the Heaviside step function or its opposite. So, the output
values corresponding to the points at x = –0.061 . . . and x = –0.079
. . . are systematically predicted as 0 instead of 1. How can this
problem be overcome?
1-3:  Retrain the neuron, making the learning rate smaller (for
example, eta = 0.01) or larger (for example, eta = 1). How is the
training process affected?
1-4:  Use the trained neuron to analyze the test data provided in
data_class_1d_clean_test.csv, which has been generated with the
same underlying simulation model used for the training data (but
hasn’t been seen by the neuron during its training).
Classifying Noisy Data
Now let’s consider some noisier data. Load the dataset in the
data_class_1d_noisy.csv file as follows:
(x, y_gt) = load_data_1d(filename="data_class_1d_noisy.csv")
The left side of Figure 1-6 shows what you get when you plot the
data with the plot_data_1d() function, as shown in Listing 1-3.

--- Strana 50 ---
Figure 1-6: The 1D noisy data (left) and the prediction of a trained neuron (right)
Note the absence of a sharp change between the two classes, which
is a consequence of the noise added to the underlying simulation model.
Now you can repeat the initialization (Listing 1-5) and the training
(Listing 1-9) of the neuron. By plotting the predictions of the trained
neuron via the plot_pred_1d() function (Listing 1-8), you should get
results similar to those shown on the right side of Figure 1-6, which
show good agreement between the predictions and the ground truth.
EXERCISE
1-5:  Use the trained neuron to analyze the test data in
data_class_1d_noisy_test.csv, which has been generated with the
same underlying simulation model as the training data.
Attempting to Classify More-Complex Data
Let’s further challenge your neuron by considering a more complex
dataset. As you may have already noticed, so far you’ve used only convex
datasets, or datasets with a single change point between the two classes
of the underlying model. Furthermore, the change point has always

--- Strana 51 ---
been around the origin. In fact, these conditions are necessary to get a
good classification with the simple neuron you’ve been using until now
because it can only separate the input data into two classes
corresponding to positive and negative inputs.
To deal with some more-complex data, load
data_class_1d_nonconvex.csv with the following code:
(x, y_gt) = load_data_1d(filename="data_class_1d_nonconvex.csv")
When you plot this data with the plot_data_1d() function, as shown in
Listing 1-3, you should get the scatterplot on the left side of Figure 1-7.
Figure 1-7: The 1D non-convex data (left) and the prediction of a trained neuron (right)
The plot now has at least three change points. Therefore, a single
neuron can’t learn to distinguish the two classes in this dataset. You can
try anyway by initializing the neuron (Listing 1-5), training it (Listing
1-9), and plotting its predicted output with the plot_pred_1d() function
(Listing 1-8). This should result in a rather unsuccessful attempt, similar
to the predictions from a trained neuron shown on the right side of
Figure 1-7.
EXERCISES

--- Strana 52 ---
1-6:  Use the trained neuron to analyze the test data in
data_class_1d_nonconvex_test.csv, which has been generated with the
same underlying simulation model.
1-7:  Play with the underlying simulation model. Generate your
own data and explore how well the neuron works for various cases.
Try convex and non-convex as well as noisy and non-noisy data.
Try also to move the position(s) of the change point(s).
Classifying 2D Data
Now that you know how to classify 1D data, you can analyze higher-
dimensional datasets, such as the dataset in data_class_2d_clean.csv. When
you open it with a text editor, you should see that the first and second
columns contain the input data, which are the two input variables
corresponding to the vector x = (x0, x1). The third column contains the
respective classification into the two classes 0 and 1.
Loading the Data
First, you need to upgrade the load_data_1d() function in Listing 1-1 to
deal with an arbitrary number of inputs. Listing 1-10 shows the
modified load_data() function.
import csv
from numpy import asarray, reshape
def load_data(filename):
    """Load multidimensional data."""
    with open(filename) as file:
        --snip--
  ➊ x = data[:, 0:-1]  # Input
  ➋ num_samples = data.shape[0]
  ➌ y = reshape(data[:, -1], (num_samples, 1))  # Output/target/ground truth
    return (x, y)
Listing 1-10: The function to load multidimensional data (by modifying Listing 1-1)

--- Strana 53 ---
This code selects as input all data in the .csv file except the last
column ➊. The resulting two-dimensional (2D) NumPy array has a
shape equal to the number of samples (rows) times the number of inputs
(columns). The code then extracts the number of samples ➋. Finally, it
selects as output the last column and reshapes it into a 2D NumPy array
with a shape equal to the number of samples (rows) times 1 (column) to
make the subsequent processing of the data easier ➌.
Now add the load_data() function to loader.py and import it:
from loader import load_data
Then you can load the dataset contained in data_class_2d_clean.csv:
(x, y_gt) = load_data(filename="data_class_2d_clean.csv")
Note that this function still works for the special case where the
input data is 1D, such as data_class_1d_clean.csv, which you can verify by
rerunning the listings in the previous section with this function instead
of load_data_1d() (but you’ll need to update the print statement in Listing
1-9 as shown in Listing 1-18).
Verifying and Visualizing the 2D Data
Again, it’s good practice to inspect the data. First, print out the data via
print("x:", x) and print("y_gt:", y_gt), which should display this:
x: [[ 1.13210319 -1.4066463 ]
 [-1.09042665  1.92715243]
 --snip--
 [-0.54700911 -0.15378581]]
y_gt: [[0.]
 [1.]
 --snip--
 [1.]]
Then you can generate a 2D scatterplot of the data with the
plot_data_2d() function shown in Listing 1-11, which you should add to
plotting.py.

--- Strana 54 ---
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
def plot_data_2d(x, y_gt):
    """Plot 2D data."""
 ➊ plt.scatter(x[:, 0], x[:, 1], c=y_gt, s=50)
 ➋ plt.colorbar()
    plt.axis("equal")
    plt.xlabel("x0", fontsize=24)
    plt.ylabel("x1", fontsize=24)
    plt.tick_params(axis="both", which="major", labelsize=16)
    plt.show()
Listing 1-11: The function to plot the 2D data
This function color-codes the class of each point by assigning it its
ground-truth value, y_gt, as the color parameter, c ➊, and it visualizes the
color bar next to the plot ➋.
To import this function and use it to plot the figure, use Listing 1-
12.
from plotting import plot_data_2d
plot_data_2d(x, y_gt)
Listing 1-12: Visualizing the 2D data with a scatterplot
Figure 1-8 shows the resulting scatterplot. The class assignment is
indicated by the colors of the points.

--- Strana 55 ---
Figure 1-8: A scatterplot of the 2D data for classification
In this scatterplot, you can discern the dataset’s underlying model,
where a straight line (not depicted) separates the two classes of points.
Points above this line are designated as 1, while those below it are
marked as 0.
Upgrading the Neuron with Multiple Inputs
Now you need to upgrade your neuron to have two inputs instead of
one by modifying Listing 1-4 to add an extra input, leading to Listing 1-
13.
def neuron_clas_2d(w, x):
    """Artificial neuron for multidimensional classification."
    return (x @ w > 0).astype(int)
Listing 1-13: The artificial neuron with multiple inputs (by modifying Listing 1-4)
This code implements a single neuron with multiple inputs (the x
NumPy array), an equal number of weights (the w NumPy array), and
one binary output (acquiring values 0 or 1). The code x @ w calculates the

--- Strana 56 ---
dot product between the input and the weights, which can be written in
a more explicit way as x[0] * w[0] + x[1] * w[1] (so that x @ w > 0 represents
all the points of the plane above the line passing by the origin of the
coordinate system with slope -w[0] / w[1]).
You can randomly initialize the neuron’s weights with Listing 1-14.
--snip--
w = rng.standard_normal(size=(2,))
Listing 1-14: Initializing the weights of the neuron for 2D classification (by modifying Listing
1-5)
Compared to Listing 1-5, this code adds a second weight for the
second input.
To obtain a prediction from this neuron, use Listing 1-15.
y_p = neuron_clas_2d(w, x)
Listing 1-15: Obtaining a prediction from the neuron for 2D classification (by modifying
Listing 1-6)
Then add the predictions by this neuron to the scatterplot of the
data by using the plot_pred_2d() function shown in Listing 1-16, obtained
by slightly modifying Listing 1-11. Also add the plot_pred_2d() function
to the package plotting.py.
def plot_pred_2d(x, y_gt, y_p):
    """Plot 2D data and predictions."""
    --snip--
    plt.scatter(x[:, 0], x[:, 1], c=y_gt, s=50, label="ground truth")
    plt.scatter(x[:, 0], x[:, 1], c=y_p, s=100, marker="x", label="predicted")
    plt.legend(fontsize=20)
    --snip--
Listing 1-16: The function to plot the 2D data and predictions (by modifying Listing 1-11)
Now import this function and use it to plot the predictions of the
neuron, as shown in Listing 1-17.
from plotting import plot_pred_2d

--- Strana 57 ---
plot_pred_2d(x, y_gt, y_p=neuron_clas_2d(w, x))
Listing 1-17: Plotting both the 2D data and predictions
You should see a plot similar to the one shown in Figure 1-9.
Figure 1-9: Predictions from a randomly initialized neuron
For the randomly initialized neuron, the output is pretty much
unrelated to the actual ground truth, as the coefficients are chosen
randomly. However, the output isn’t completely random, as there’s a
clear decision boundary. This boundary is the result of the linear
equation defined by the weights, which segregates the input plane into
two halves, each corresponding to one class of the output.
Training with Two Inputs
Now you can train this neuron with Listing 1-18, which is a small
variation on the training code provided in Listing 1-9.
--snip--
for i in range(num_train_iterations):
    selected = rng.integers(0, num_samples)  # Select random sample

--- Strana 58 ---
    x_selected = x[selected]
    y_gt_selected = y_gt[selected]
    y_p_selected = neuron_clas_2d(w, x_selected)  # Neuron prediction
    error = y_p_selected - y_gt_selected  # Calculate error
    w = w - eta * error * x_selected  # Update neuron weights
 
 ➊ print(f"i={i} w0={w[0]:.2f} w1={w[1]:.2f} error={error[0]:.2f}")
Listing 1-18: Training the neuron with two inputs (by modifying Listing 1-9)
Note that this code alters the print statement by changing w0 and
error to w[0] and error[0] ➊, which is necessary because they are now
NumPy arrays as a consequence of the changes to the load_data()
function.
The neuron’s performance rapidly improves during the training. You
can plot the performance of the trained neuron with the plot_pred_2d()
function (Listing 1-17). You should get a scatterplot similar to Figure 1-
10.

--- Strana 59 ---
Figure 1-10: Predictions by a trained neuron
This scatterplot shows that the data contained in
data_class_2d_clean.csv (color of the dots) and the predictions of a trained
neuron (color of the crosses) are in excellent agreement with each other.
NOTE
Code Example 1-2, “Classifying 2D Data with a Single Neuron,” is
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch01_DNN_classification folder and then
ec01_2_neuron_class_2d. The neuron_class_2d.ipynb notebook
provides a complete code example that loads the data contained in
data_class_2d_clean.csv, trains a neuron to classify it, and finally
uses 
it 
to 
predict 
the 
classification 
of 
the 
data 
in
data_class_2d_clean_test.csv. Note that this code also requires
loader.py containing the load_data() function and plotting.py
containing the plot_data_2d() and plot_pred_2d() functions.

--- Strana 60 ---
EXERCISES
1-8:  Use the trained neuron to analyze the test data in
data_class_2d_clean_test.csv generated with the same underlying
simulation model.
1-9:  Repeat the same training on the noisy data in
data_class_2d_noisy.csv, and then test the trained neuron on the data
in data_class_2d_noisy_test.csv.
1-10:  Repeat the same training on the data corresponding to
classes that are convex—meaning that at least one of the two
classes of points is convex, which can be assessed by checking that
any two points in the class are joined by a line segment completely
contained within the class itself. Examples of such data are in
data_class_2d_convex_clean.csv and data_class_2d_convex_noisy.csv.
After training, test the trained neuron on the data in
data_class_2d_convex_clean_test.csv and
data_class_2d_convex_noisy_test.csv.
1-11:  Repeat the same training on some data corresponding to
the non-convex classes in data_class_2d_nonconvex.csv. Test the
trained neuron on the data_class_2d_nonconvex_test.csv dataset.
1-12:  Play with the underlying simulation model. Generate your
own data and test how well the neuron works for various cases. Try
convex and non-convex classes as well as noisy and non-noisy data.
Adding a Bias as Another Dimension
Until now we have disregarded the bias in the neuron (the b in Equation
1.1). Introducing a bias into the neuron allows it to shift the activation
function to the left or right. This shift enables the neuron to represent
patterns that aren’t origin centered, thereby increasing its flexibility and
accuracy.

--- Strana 61 ---
A bias can be added as an additional input with a constant value—for
example, equal to +1. To do so, first you need to update the neuron
initialization and activation by altering Listing 1-13 as shown in Listing
1-19.
def neuron_clas_2d_bias(w, b, x):
    """Artificial neuron with a bias for multidimensional classification."""
    return (x @ w + b > 0).astype(int)
Listing 1-19: The artificial neuron with a bias (by modifying Listing 1-13)
Then you need to initialize the bias with Listing 1-20.
b = rng.standard_normal()
Listing 1-20: Initializing the bias of the neuron
You also need to update the training procedure, altering Listing 1-18
as shown in Listing 1-21.
--snip--
for i in range(num_train_iterations):
    --snip--
    y_p_selected = neuron_clas_2d_bias(w, b, x_selected)  # Neuron prediction
    --snip--
    b = b - eta * error  # Update neuron bias
    print(f"i={i} w0={w[0]:.2f} w1={w[1]:.2f} b={b[0]:.2f} err={error[0]:.2f}")
Listing 1-21: Training the neuron with the bias (by modifying Listing 1-18)
Now you can repeat the analyses performed in the previous sections
by using a neuron with a bias.
EXERCISE
1-13:  Revisit the predictions made in the previous sections by
using a neuron with a bias. Verify that the predictions improve,
especially when the change point isn’t at the origin (for the 1D

--- Strana 62 ---
data) or the line separating the two classes doesn’t pass by the
origin (for the 2D data).
Using Weight Regularization to Stabilize the Training
Before moving on to more-complex neural network architectures that
use more than a single neuron, let’s consider weight regularization, which
permits you to keep the values of the weights in check during the
training.
As you might have noticed in the previous examples, the weights
often decrease during training to very small values. Thus, since the
output is binary, the relative size of the error increases to very large
values. Consequently, the weights can change a lot in a single iteration,
wreaking havoc on the neuron training.
More generally, having runaway weights (toward either small or
large values) is a major problem in the training of any neural network.
To prevent this issue, it’s possible to regularize the weights. For
example, you can normalize the weights periodically with a small
modification to Listing 1-18 as shown in Listing 1-22.
from numpy import sqrt
--snip--
for i in range(num_train_iterations):
    --snip--
    w = w - eta * error * x_selected  # Update neuron weights
    w = w / sqrt(w[0] ** 2 + w[1] ** 2)  # Weight regularization
    --snip--
Listing 1-22: Training the neuron with weight regularization (by modifying Listing 1-18)
Dividing the weights by their norm ensures that the norm of the
weight vector remains unitary in every iteration, which is equivalent to
constraining the weight vector to move on a (hyper)circle.
NOTE

--- Strana 63 ---
Here, you’ve used the Euclidean norm, or L2 norm, of the vector,
which for a vector x = (x0, x1) is:
‖x‖2 = √x2
0 + x2
1
In machine learning, the L1 norm is often used, corresponding to:
∥x∥1 = |x0| + |x1|.
Generally, the Lp norm is defined as
∥x∥p = (|x0|p + |x1|p)1/p
for p ≥ 1.
EXERCISES
1-14:  Repeat the previous training and analysis of 2D data by
using weight regularization (why not also for the 1D data case?).
Compare these new results with those without regularization.
1-15:  Perform the regularization with the L1 norm of the weight
vector. What differences do you notice? What happens when you
use other Lp norms with p > 1?
Using Different Activation Functions
Instead of using the Heaviside step function activation, it’s possible and
often convenient to use other activation functions:
Sigmoid  A smooth, S-shaped function that squashes its input into
the range [0,1]

--- Strana 64 ---
Hyperbolic tangent (tanh)  A smooth function that squashes its
input into the range [–1,1]
Linear function  A function that returns the input unmodified
ReLU (rectified linear unit)  A continuous function often used
for computational efficiency, given the ease with which it can be
calculated together with its derivative
Leaky ReLU  A variation on the ReLU that can help avoid the
vanishing gradient problem in deep neural networks
These activation functions are shown in Figure 1-11.
Figure 1-11: Common activation functions
These alternative functions have the advantage of being continuous,
so you can use the artificial neuron not only for classification tasks but
also for regression tasks (as you’ll see in Chapter 2). Furthermore,
they’re differentiable almost everywhere, which will become important
when you use the backpropagation algorithm to train complex neural
networks in the next sections.
Nevertheless, even when using these functions, a single artificial
neuron is able to classify only datasets that can be separated by a single
change point in 1D and by a single straight line in 2D (and by a
hyperplane in higher dimensions) because it performs a linear operation

--- Strana 65 ---
computing a weighted sum of its inputs followed by a nondecreasing
operation, which translates to a linear decision boundary in the input
space. Nonlinearly separable data can’t be accurately classified by such a
boundary, requiring more-complex models with multiple neurons
arranged in layers, as you’ll see in the following sections.
EXERCISE
1-16:  Revisit all the examples in the previous sections, using
various activation functions. Note the corrections you need to
implement in order to accommodate continuous activation
functions.
Classifying Data with a Two-Layer Neural Network
In this section, you’ll see how multiple artificial neurons can be
combined into more-complex architectures to perform more-complex
tasks. For example, you can start considering a two-layer network, made
of artificial neurons with Heaviside step function activation, such as that
shown in Figure 1-12. The first layer is usually referred to as the hidden
layer, whereas the last is called the output layer.
NOTE
The number of layers determines the depth of a network. As you’ll see
later, increasing the number of hidden layers enhances the
representational capacity of the network. A network is typically
considered “deep” when it contains two or more hidden layers, allowing
for more-complex data representations. However, networks with only
two or three layers may still be regarded as shallow compared to
modern deep learning models, which often contain dozens or even
hundreds of layers.

--- Strana 66 ---
Figure 1-12: A two-layer dense neural network
In Figure 1-12, the annotations near the connections denote the
weights, while those beneath each neuron represent the biases. The
depicted network features a first hidden layer composed of binary
neurons that each execute a linear separation, dividing the input plane
into distinct half-planes. Subsequently, the output layer—comprising
two neurons—synthesizes these regions into more-complex shapes.
Specifically, the first neuron in the output layer combines the outputs
from the first layer to create the final partitioning of the plane, whereas
the second neuron intersects them.
This process is illustrated on the right side of Figure 1-12: The first
column illustrates how each neuron in the first layer bisects the plane,
and the second column demonstrates the complex partitioning achieved
by the output layer through the combination and intersection of these
bisected regions.
This two-layer neural network is an example of a dense neural
network. A dense neural network consists of multiple stacked layers of
neurons. Each neuron in a layer receives inputs from all neurons in the
previous layer and sends outputs to all neurons in the following layer, in
a classical feed-forward architecture. Dense neural networks are also
known as fully connected neural networks or multilayer perceptrons.

--- Strana 67 ---
EXERCISES
1-17:  Implement the two-layer neural network with the fixed
weights illustrated in Figure 1-12 and verify that it works to
separate the points of the plane as shown.
1-18:  Use a two-layer neural network to implement the logic
gates by figuring out the appropriate weights yourself. Show that
it’s possible to implement NOT, AND, OR, and NAND, but not
XOR. Can you figure out why XOR is not possible? Can any of
these logic gates be implemented using a single neuron?
Implementing a Dense Neural Network
As usual, you’ll start by loading the data. Use the load_data() function in
Listing 1-10 to load the data into data_class_2d_convex_clean:
from loader import load_data
(x, y_gt) = load_data(filename="data_class_2d_convex_clean.csv")
Then plot the data with the plot_data_2d() function as shown in Listing
1-12, which should show the plot in Figure 1-13.

--- Strana 68 ---
Figure 1-13: A scatterplot of the 2D data with a convex class
As you’ve seen in Exercise 1-10, this data can’t be classified by a
single neuron; you’ll need to implement a two-layer dense neural
network. As a first step, you need to implement the sigmoidal activation
function, as shown in Listing 1-23.
from numpy import exp
def sigmoid(x):
    """Sigmoid function."""
    return 1 / (1 + exp(-x))
Listing 1-23: The sigmoidal activation function
This code defines the sigmoidal function (shown in Figure 1-11),
which will be the activation function of each neuron.
You can then implement the dnn2_clas() function in Listing 1-24 to
define the neural network.
def dnn2_clas(wa, wb, x):
    """Two-layer dense neural network for classification."""

--- Strana 69 ---
    x_a = x  # Input layer 1
    p_a = x_a @ wa  # Activation potential layer 1
    y_a = sigmoid(p_a)  # Output layer 1
    x_b = y_a  # Input layer 2
    p_b = x_b @ wb  # Activation potential layer 2
    y_b = sigmoid(p_b)  # Output layer 2 (output neuron)
    y_p = y_b  # Network prediction
 
    return y_p
Listing 1-24: The two-layer dense neural network (detailed calculation)
This function implements a two-layer dense neural network that
takes the x array as input and returns the continuous output in the y_p
array, which takes values between 0 and 1.
The implementation of this neural network can be made more
compact, as shown in Listing 1-25.
def dnn2_clas(wa, wb, x):
    """Two-layer dense neural network for classification."""
    return sigmoid(sigmoid(x @ wa) @ wb)
Listing 1-25: The two-layer dense neural network (compact calculation, by modifying Listing
1-24)
The calculation of the neural network output from the value of the
input and of its weight matrices is now done in a single expression,
instead of the previous explicit calculation.
You can now define the number of neurons with Listing 1-26.
num_neurons = 3
Listing 1-26: Defining the number of neurons in the hidden layer
Although num_neurons is set to 3, you can change it.
Now you need to randomly initialize the weight matrices between
the inputs and the first layer (wa) and between the first layer and the
output (wb) via Listing 1-27.

--- Strana 70 ---
   from numpy.random import default_rng
   rng = default_rng()
➊ wa = rng.standard_normal(size=(2, num_neurons))  # Input weights layer 1
➋ wb = rng.standard_normal(size=(num_neurons, 1))  # Input weights layer 2
Listing 1-27: Initializing the weight matrices
Since you have two inputs, three neurons in the first layer, and one
neuron in the output layer, the weight matrices have dimensions 2×3 ➊
and 3×1 ➋, respectively.
Next, obtain the predictions by this neural network with Listing 1-
28.
y_p = dnn2_clas(wa, wb, x)
Listing 1-28: Obtaining predictions by the dense neural network
Note that the predicted output y_p of this network is a continuous
value from 0 to 1, so the class assignment won’t be sharp but will have a
probabilistic flavor to it.
Plot the output above the ground truth with Listing 1-29.
--snip--
plot_pred_2d(x, y_gt, y_p=dnn2_clas(wa, wb, x))
Listing 1-29: Plotting the 2D data and the predictions of a two-layer neural network (by
modifying Listing 1-17)
This should generate a scatterplot that looks like Figure 1-14.

--- Strana 71 ---
Figure 1-14: Predictions by a randomly initialized two-layer network
Since the output is now a continuous function, the predicted results
(color of the crosses) acquire the whole range of values in the color bar.
As usual, the predictions are random, so there is no agreement between
the ground truth and the neural network prediction—as you should
expect given the random initialization of the weights.
Training with Error Backpropagation
Now you need to train this simple neural network. This training aims to
minimize the neural network’s error, quantified by the loss function. This
mathematical formula measures the difference between the network’s
predicted outputs and the actual target values; the goal of training is to
find the weight configuration that results in the lowest possible loss.
Conceptually, training involves evaluating the performance of each
individual weight within the network to understand its impact on the
final output. For example, you might slightly increase the value of a
weight and observe the effect on the network’s output. If the adjustment
results in a closer match to the actual target, the change has decreased
the loss function, indicating a step in the right direction. Conversely, if

--- Strana 72 ---
the loss increases, you know to adjust the weight in the opposite
direction. This process, repeated across all weights in the network,
forms the basis of learning.
For every iteration, each weight is adjusted slightly in the direction
that reduces the overall error of the network. This is known as gradient
descent, where gradient refers to the slope of the loss function
(representing the direction and rate of change of the error with respect
to the weight), and descent indicates that the process seeks to move
downward toward a minimum error.
You can perform gradient descent efficiently using the very powerful
backpropagation algorithm, which is arguably the main technique
responsible for the widespread success of deep learning. Similarly to the
algorithm you used to train a single artificial neuron, it works by
iteratively updating each weight.
NOTE
The backpropagation algorithm computes the gradient of the loss
function with respect to each weight by the chain rule, computing the
gradient one layer at a time, and iterating backward from the last
layer to avoid redundant calculations of intermediate terms in the
chain rule. This implies that the activation functions at all neurons
need to be differentiable almost everywhere (for example, all the
activation functions in Figure 1-11 except the Heaviside step
function).
In the next section, you’ll see a simple mathematical derivation of
the backpropagation algorithm. If you prefer, you can skip this
derivation and jump directly to the implementation provided in Listings
1-30 and 1-31.
Mathematical Derivation
Consider a simple two-layer neural network with N inputs, Q neurons
in the hidden layer, and M neurons in the output layer, as shown in the
left panel of Figure 1-15.

--- Strana 73 ---
Figure 1-15: Error backpropagation
All neurons have the same (differentiable) activation function f(p),
where p is their input potential (the weighted sum of their inputs). Use
as the loss function the mean squared error (MSE) of the output:
Here, y2,m is the output of the mth neuron in the output layer (the
subscript 2 indicates the second layer), and ~ym is the target value for the
mth output.
Now you need to calculate the error gradient with respect to the
weights. Start by considering the weight w2,qm between the qth hidden
neuron and the mth output neuron (again the subscript 2 indicates the
second layer). The error gradient is
where
E = 1
2
M−1
∑
m=0
(y2,m −˜ym)2
     (1. 3)
∂E
∂w2,qm
=
∂E
∂y2,m
∂y2,m
∂p2,m
∂p2,m
∂w2,qm
=
y1,q
δ2,m
= δ2,my1,q
   (1.4)
(y2,m −~ym)f ′ (p2,m)

--- Strana 74 ---
p2,m =
Q−1
∑
q=0
w2,qmy1,q
is the activation potential of the mth output neuron (the subscript 1
indicates the first layer), and y1,q is the output of the qth hidden neuron,
which can be calculated as
∂p2,m
∂w2,qm = y1,q
Therefore, you can update these weights as
where η is the learning rate and the minus sign indicates that you want
to decrease the error.
In an analogous way, you can calculate the error gradient with
respect to the weights of the connections between the inputs and the
neurons in the hidden layer (right panel in Figure 1-15). You obtain
where p1,q = ΣN−1
n=0 w1,nqxn is the activation potential of the qth hidden
neuron and xn is the nth input. Comparing this formula with the
previous one, you should notice that, instead of the known errors
(y2,m −~y m), there are now the derivatives
∂E
∂y1,q
which you must calculate by backpropagating the errors (hence the
name) from the output layer to each hidden neuron:
Δw2,qm
= −η
∂E
∂w2,qm
= −ηδ2,my1,q
   (1.5)
∂E
∂w1,nq
=
∂E
∂y1,q
∂y1,q
∂p1,q
∂p1,q
∂w1,nq
=
∂E
∂y1,q f ′ (p1,q)xn
    (1.6)

--- Strana 75 ---
Therefore, the weights need to be updated as follows:
Implementation
To implement the backpropagation algorithm, you need the first
derivative of the sigmoid function, shown in Listing 1-30.
def d_sigmoid(x):
    """Derivative of sigmoid function."""
    return sigmoid(x) * (1 - sigmoid(x))
Listing 1-30: The derivative of the sigmoid function
Then you need to update the training cycle provided in Listing 1-
18, as shown in Listing 1-31.
   from numpy import reshape, sum, transpose
   --snip--
➊ num_train_iterations = 10 ** 5
   --snip--
   for i in range(num_train_iterations):
       # Select random sample
       selected = rng.integers(0, num_samples)
∂E
∂y1,q
=
M–1
∑
m=0
∂E
∂y2,m
∂y2,m
∂p2,m
∂p2,m
∂y1,q
=
M–1
∑
m=0
(y2,m −~y m)f ′ (p2,m)
δ2,m
w2,qm
=
M–1
∑
m=0
δ2,mw2,qm
   (1.7)
Δw1,nq
= −ηf ′ (p1,q)
M–1
∑
m=0
δ2,mw2,qm
δ1,q
 xn
= −ηδ1,q xn
    (1.8)

--- Strana 76 ---
    ➋ x_selected = reshape(x[selected], (1, -1))
    ➌ y_gt_selected = reshape(y_gt[selected], (1, -1))
    
    ➍ # Detailed neural network calculation
       x_selected_a = x_selected  # Input layer 1
       p_a = x_selected_a @ wa  # Activation potential layer 1
       y_selected_a = sigmoid(p_a)  # Output layer 1
       x_selected_b = y_selected_a  # Input layer 2
       p_b = x_selected_b @ wb  # Activation potential layer 2
       y_selected_b = sigmoid(p_b)  # Output layer 2 (output neuron)
    
       y_p_selected = y_selected_b
       # Update weights
       error = y_p_selected - y_gt_selected
       delta_b = error * d_sigmoid(p_b)
       wb = wb - eta * delta_b * transpose(x_selected_b)
       delta_a = sum(wb * delta_b, axis=1) * d_sigmoid(p_a)
       wa = wa - eta * delta_a * transpose(x_selected_a)
    ➎ if i % 100 == 0:
           print(f"{i} y_p={y_p_selected[0, 0]:.2f} error={error[0, 0]:.2f}")
Listing 1-31: Training with error backpropagation (by modifying Listing 1-18)
You’ve now increased the training interactions from 102 to 105 ➊ in
order to get a proper training (try out intermediate values such as 103
and 104 to see what happens). Note that the number of samples has also
increased.
In each training iteration, the code extracts the input ➋ and ground-
truth output ➌ in vectorial form so that they have a shape equal to 1 by
the number of inputs and 1 by the number of outputs, respectively. This
makes the code more readable and more easily generalizable to higher-
dimensional inputs.

--- Strana 77 ---
Then it performs a detailed calculation of the predicted output ➍, as
shown in Listing 1-24. This is necessary because the error
backpropagation uses some of the intermediate results in this
calculation. Finally, the current state of the network is printed once in a
while (every 100 iterations) to avoid slowing the training or running out
of memory because of the textual output ➎.
You can finally plot the network predictions after training:
plot_pred_2d(x, y_gt, y_p=dnn2_clas(wa, wb, x))
You should get results similar to those shown in Figure 1-16.
Figure 1-16: Predictions by a trained two-layer neural network
Thanks to the training, the predictions (color of the crosses) and the
ground truth (color of the circles) are in very good agreement.
NOTE
Code Example 1-3, “Classifying 2D Data with a Two-Layer Neural
Network,” 
is 
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.

--- Strana 78 ---
Navigate to the Ch01_DNN_classification folder and then
ec01_3_dnn2_class. The dnn2_class.ipynb notebook provides a
complete 
code 
example 
that 
loads 
the 
data 
in 
the
data_class_2d_convex_clean.csv file, trains a two-layer neural
network to classify it, and finally uses it to classify the test data in the
data_class_2d_convex_clean_test.csv file. Note that this code also
requires loader.py containing the 
load_data() function and
plotting.py containing the 
plot_data_2d() and 
plot_pred_2d()
functions.
EXERCISES
1-19:  Use the trained neural network to analyze the test data in
data_class_2d_convex_clean_test.csv generated with the same
underlying simulation model.
1-20:  Repeat the same analysis presented in this section with the
noisy dataset in data_class_2d_convex_noisy.csv. Test the trained
network on the data_class_2d_convex_noisy_test.csv dataset.
1-21:  Add weight regularization. How do the training and
predictions of the network change?
1-22:  Reimplement the network with alternative activation
functions, such as those shown in Figure 1-11. How do its training
and performance change?
Attempting an Impossible Classification
Finally, let’s consider an impossible case, which can’t be solved by a
neural network with two layers (one hidden layer plus the output layer)
and will require deeper neural networks with multiple hidden layers.
Load the even more complex dataset data_class_2d_nonconvex.csv:

--- Strana 79 ---
(x, y_gt) = load_data(filename="data_class_2d_complex.csv")
Then plot the data with the plot_data_2d() function (Listing 1-12), which
should give you Figure 1-17.
Figure 1-17: Even more complex 2D data
You can clearly see that this dataset can’t be classified by a neural
network with a single hidden layer such as those you’ve explored in this
section. This is an impossible task because the classification region can’t
be obtained by the union (or intersection) of half-planes, but instead
requires an additional layer capable of combining these two operations.
EXERCISES
1-23:  Attempt an impossible classification and verify that the
neural network can’t correctly predict the data contained in
data_class_2d_nonconvex.csv.

--- Strana 80 ---
1-24:  Use the data in data_class_2d_nonconvex.csv to train an
ensemble of two-layer neural networks. Show that it’s possible to
combine their outputs to classify the data (for example, by
multiplying them). Test this approach on the test data provided in
data_class_2d_nonconvex_test.csv.
Classifying Data with a Three-Layer Neural Network
Neural networks with more layers can perform even more complex
classifications. In fact, as the number of layers increases, the neural
network becomes capable of classifying more and more complex shapes
in the plane.
In this section, you’ll see how a neural network with three layers can
be used to classify more-complex datasets, like that shown in Figure 1-
17. Figure 1-18 shows a three-layer neural network made of neurons
with step-function activation.
Figure 1-18: A three-layer dense neural network

--- Strana 81 ---
The annotations near the connections indicate the respective
weights, and those below the neurons indicate their biases. Each of the
four neurons in the first layer partitions the plane into two half-planes.
The two neurons in the second layer then combine these half-planes in
various forms. Finally, the neuron in the output layer further elaborates
these results.
EXERCISES
1-25:  Implement the three-layer neural network with fixed
weights illustrated in Figure 1-18 and verify that it separates the
points on the plane as shown.
1-26:  Use a three-layer neural network to implement the logic
gates by figuring out the appropriate weights yourself. Show that
it’s now possible to implement NOT, AND, OR, NAND, and also
XOR.
Deep neural networks can also be realized using neurons with
continuous activation functions, leading to even more interesting
results. In particular, this permits the neural network to perform not
only classifications but also regressions, as you’ll see in Chapter 2. In
fact, with enough layers and neurons, a neural network becomes able to
approximate any function.
To implement a three-layer neural network, change Listing 1-25 as
shown in Listing 1-32.
--snip--
def dnn3_clas(wa, wb, wc, x):
    """Three-layer dense neural network for classification."""
    return sigmoid(sigmoid(sigmoid(x @ wa) @ wb) @ wc)
Listing 1-32: The three-layer dense neural network (by modifying Listing 1-24)

--- Strana 82 ---
This code implements a three-layer dense neural network for which
you need to define the number of neurons in the hidden layers:
num_neurons_1 = 7
num_neurons_2 = 5
The neural network will have two inputs (x), seven neurons in the first
layer (num_neurons_1), five neurons in the second layer (num_neurons_2), and
one continuous output (with values from 0 to 1). You can change the
number of neurons in the hidden layers.
Then initialize the weight matrices with Listing 1-33.
   --snip--
➊ wa = rng.standard_normal(size=(2, num_neurons_1))
➋ wb = rng.standard_normal(size=(num_neurons_1, num_neurons_2))
➌ wc = rng.standard_normal(size=(num_neurons_2, 1))
Listing 1-33: Initializing the weight matrices of the three-layer neural network (by modifying
Listing 1-27)
Since you have two inputs, seven neurons in the first layer, five
neurons in the second layer, and one neuron in the output layer, the
weight matrices have dimensions 2×7 ➊, 7×5 ➋, and 5×1 ➌.
Now you can obtain the predictions by this neural network:
y_p = dnn3_clas(wa, wb, wc, x)
The problem then becomes finding the optimal weights for the
neural network. The formulas for the error backpropagation you’ve
seen in the previous section can be straightforwardly generalized to
update the weights in deeper neural networks. You can train the neural
network by modifying Listing 1-31 as shown in Listing 1-34.
--snip--
for i in range(num_training_iterations):
    --snip--
    y_selected_b = sigmoid(p_b)  # Output layer 2
 
    x_selected_c = y_selected_b  # Input layer 3

--- Strana 83 ---
    p_c = x_selected_c @ wc  # Activation potential layer 3
    y_selected_c = sigmoid(p_c)  # Output layer 3 (output neuron)
    y_p_selected = y_selected_c
    # Update weights
    error = y_p_selected - y_gt_selected
 
    delta_c = error * d_sigmoid(p_c)
    wc = wc - eta * delta_c * transpose(x_selected_c)
 
    delta_b = sum(wc * delta_c, axis=1) * d_sigmoid(p_b) 
    wb = wb - eta * delta_b * transpose(x_selected_b)
    delta_a = sum(wb * delta_b, axis=1) * d_sigmoid(p_a)
    --snip--
Listing 1-34: Training the three-layer neural network with error backpropagation (by
modifying Listing 1-31)
Now revisit the previous examples and test how they work with a
deeper, three-layer neural network. In particular, by using a three-layer
neural network, you should now be able to classify the
data_class_2d_nonconvex.csv dataset, shown in Figure 1-17, which is
impossible to classify with a two-layer neural network.
EXERCISES
1-27:  Determine the minimum number of layers and neurons as
well as their weights to correctly classify the data in
data_class_1d_nonconvex.csv.
1-28:  Mathematically derive the error backpropagation formulas
for neural networks with three layers. Then generalize these
formulas to an arbitrary number of layers.

--- Strana 84 ---
Project 1A: Classifying Handwritten Digits
You’ll now build a neural network to classify images. Then you’ll use it
to tackle the classical problem of classifying the handwritten digits in
the MNIST dataset. You’ll also learn to use confusion matrices, a
common graphical tool to gain insights into the performance of a
classifier.
Using the MNIST Digit Dataset
Recognizing the handwritten digits of the MNIST dataset
(http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/), constructed by Yann LeCun and
Corinna Cortes in 1998, is a classical benchmark for machine learning.
The task consists of recognizing handwritten digits from 0 to 9 in
28×28–pixel images. The dataset contains 60,000 training images and
10,000 test images.
Importing the Data
You can download the MNIST images from the GitHub repository
(https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/MNIST_dataset), as shown in Listing 1-
35. This requires an active internet connection.
   import os
   if not os.path.exists("MNIST_dataset"):
    ➊ os.system("git clone https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/MNIST_dataset")
➋ train_path = os.path.join("MNIST_dataset", "mnist", "train")
➌ train_images_files = sorted(os.listdir(train_path))
Listing 1-35: Downloading the MNIST dataset
This code downloads the MINST digits into the folder
MNIST_dataset ➊. The Python os.path.join() function creates the path to
the folder containing the training images to make the path platform
independent ➋, and sorted() sorts the list alphabetically, again to ensure
that the order is platform independent ➌. You can verify that this list

--- Strana 85 ---
contains 60,000 images with print(len(train_images_files)). The first digit
in the filename of each image is the ground-truth value of the digit so
that the images are called 0_000000.png, 0_000001.png, . . . ,
1_000000.png, and so on.
Since the MNIST dataset is small enough to be held in memory, you
can load all the images at once using Listing 1-36.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
train_images = []
for file in train_images_files:
    image = plt.imread(os.path.join(train_path, file))
    train_images.append(image)
Listing 1-36: Loading the digit images in memory
Use print(len(train_images)) to double-check that the resulting list
contains 60,000 images. You can further verify that the images have
28×28 pixels with print(train_images[0].shape).
Since the digit is encoded as the first character of the filename, you
can extract the ground-truth digits from the filenames via Listing 1-37.
train_digits = []
for file in train_images_files:
    filename = os.path.basename(file)
    digit = int(filename[0])
    train_digits.append(digit)
Listing 1-37: Extracting the ground-truth digits
Verify that there are 60,000 ground-truth digits with
print(len(train_digits)).
Visualizing the Data
Now let’s use Listing 1-38 to visualize some of the MNIST digits and
their respective ground-truth labels.
import numpy as np

--- Strana 86 ---
fig, axs = plt.subplots(nrows=3, ncols=10, figsize=(20, 6))
for ax in axs.ravel():
    idx_image = np.random.choice(60000)
    ax.imshow(train_images[idx_image], cmap="Greys") 
    ax.set_title(f"Label: {train_digits[idx_image]}", fontsize=20)
    ax.axis("off")
plt.show()
Listing 1-38: Plotting 30 MNIST digits together with their ground-truth labels
These digits and labels are shown in Figure 1-19.
Figure 1-19: The images and ground-truth labels for 30 MNIST digits
By visually inspecting the digits, you can check that they have been
correctly imported and that their labels are correct.
Implementing the Neural Network
You’ll now define the neural network to classify the digits by using the
MultiLayerPerceptron class from the Deeplay Python library. This class
makes defining and training the neural network much easier (but less
instructive!) than doing it from scratch, as you’ve done when
implementing the two-layer and three-layer neural networks in the
previous sections.
You can start with a small dense neural network with two hidden
layers of 32 neurons each, using Listing 1-39.

--- Strana 87 ---
   import deeplay as dl
   from torch.nn import Sigmoid
   mlp_template = dl.MultiLayerPerceptron(
       in_features=28 * 28, hidden_features=[32, 32], out_features=10,
   )
➊ mlp_template[..., "activation"].configure(Sigmoid)
➋ mlp_model = mlp_template.create()
Listing 1-39: Defining a dense neural network
This code defines a dense neural network with 784 = 28 × 28 inputs
(one for each pixel in the digit image, in_features). This network has two
hidden layers with 32 neurons each (hidden_features), with sigmoid
activation ➊ instead of the default ReLU activation; you can easily
change the depth and breadth of the neural network by altering the
value of hidden_features. The output layer has 10 neurons (out_features),
one for each digit, also with sigmoid activation ➊. The code then
creates a concrete PyTorch instance of this neural network ➋.
When you print a summary of the neural network with
print(mlp_model), you get the following:
MultiLayerPerceptron(
  (blocks): LayerList(
    (0): LinearBlock(
   ➊ (layer): Linear(in_features=784, out_features=32, bias=True)
      (activation): Sigmoid()
    )
    (1): LinearBlock(
   ➋ (layer): Linear(in_features=32, out_features=32, bias=True)
      (activation): Sigmoid()
    )
    (2): LinearBlock(
   ➌ (layer): Linear(in_features=32, out_features=10, bias=True)
      (activation): Sigmoid()
    )

--- Strana 88 ---
  )
)
This summary lets you confirm the parameters used to initialize this
network, including the number of input features (in_features=784 ➊), the
hidden layers’ dimensions (out_features=32 for both hidden layers ➊ ➋),
and the number of output features (out_features=10 ➌). You can also see
that the neural network has three dense layers (Linear) with sigmoid
activations. Furthermore, you can print the number of trainable
parameters with
print(f"{sum(p.numel() for p in mlp_model.parameters())} trainable parameters")
which tells you that this small neural network has 26,506 parameters
(weights) to optimize.
Next, you need to assign the neural network a loss function and an
optimizer, which defines an algorithm to update the weights of the
neural network during training. This is sometimes known as compiling
the neural network. You can do this with Listing 1-40.
from torch.nn import MSELoss
classifier_template = dl.Classifier(
    model=mlp_template, num_classes=10, make_targets_one_hot=True, 
    loss=MSELoss(), optimizer=dl.SGD(lr=.1),
)
classifier = classifier_template.create()
Listing 1-40: Compiling the neural network
This code loads the configuration of the dense neural network
(model=mlp_template). It sets the number of classes to 10 (num_classes=10),
aligning with the 10 possible digits. It also specifies that the ground-
truth digits are to be transformed into one-hot vectors
(make_targets_one_hot=True), a binary encoding format where the index
corresponding to the digit is marked with a 1, while all other indices are
0, effectively creating a unique binary representation for each digit.
Finally, it sets the loss function to the mean squared error loss (Equation

--- Strana 89 ---
1.3, loss=MSELoss()) and the optimizer to stochastic gradient descent (SGD)
(optimizer=dl.SGD(lr=.1)), which refines the model’s parameters by moving
against the gradient of the loss function, computed from random data
subsets—consistent with the methods you’ve used thus far.
When you print the summary of the classifier with print(classifier),
you get the following additional information:
Classifier(
  (loss): MSELoss()
  (train_metrics): MetricCollection(
    (MulticlassAccuracy): MulticlassAccuracy(),
    prefix=train
  )
  (val_metrics): MetricCollection(
    (MulticlassAccuracy): MulticlassAccuracy(),
    prefix=val
  )
  (test_metrics): MetricCollection(
    (MulticlassAccuracy): MulticlassAccuracy(),
    prefix=test
  )
  (model): MultiLayerPerceptron(
    --snip--
  )
  (optimizer): SGD[SGD](lr=0.1)
)
This addition to the summary specifies the loss function; the metrics
used for the training, validation, and testing; and the optimizer.
Training and Testing
Before proceeding to train the neural network, you need to create a data
loader, which is an object that manages the data to be passed to the
neural network. The simplest way to create a data loader from data
already in memory is to create a list of (sample, ground_truth) tuples. This
can easily be achieved using the Python native function zip(), as shown
in Listing 1-41.

--- Strana 90 ---
train_images_digits = list(zip(train_images, train_digits))
train_dataloader = dl.DataLoader(train_images_digits, shuffle=True)
Listing 1-41: Defining the data loader
Shuffling the training data (shuffle=True) prevents bias and ensures
that the model is exposed to the samples in a varied order, reducing
overfitting risks.
You should also create a trainer. This object manages the training
and evaluation—for example, deciding what hardware to use (CPU or
GPU) and when to stop training, save the model, log the training, and
evaluate the metrics. You can do this with
trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=1, accelerator="auto")
which creates a trainer for a single epoch (a single pass through the entire
training set) and with automatic hardware acceleration (it’ll use a GPU
if available and, otherwise, a CPU).
You can finally train the neural network:
trainer.fit(classifier, train_dataloader)
This code trains the neural network for one epoch—that is, iterating
only once through the entire dataset. Depending on your hardware, this
code can take from a few to several minutes to run. Be patient! As you’ll
use increasingly complex neural networks, the training times will be
even longer.
Calculating Accuracy
To evaluate how well the neural network performs, you need a new set
of images and corresponding ground-truth labels. This is to ensure that
the trained model performs as expected on images it has never seen
before.
NOTE
As the size of a neural network grows, so does its ability to memorize
every image in the input data instead of formulating generalizable

--- Strana 91 ---
rules from common patterns. This phenomenon is known as
overfitting, which you’ll see in detail in Chapter 2.
This set of images and labels is known as the test dataset (also
sometimes called the validation dataset), which you’ll learn about in more
detail in Chapter 2. As you’ve seen, the MNIST dataset has 10,000
annotated images set aside for testing. You can load and flatten this test
data using Listing 1-42.
   test_path = os.path.join("MNIST_dataset", "mnist", "test")
   test_images_files = sorted(os.listdir(test_path))
   test_images, test_digits = [], []
   for file in test_images_files:
       image = plt.imread(os.path.join(test_path, file))
       test_images.append(image)
       filename = os.path.basename(file)
       digit = int(filename[0])
       test_digits.append(digit)
   test_images_digits = list(zip(test_images, test_digits))
➊ test_dataloader = dl.DataLoader(test_images_digits, shuffle=False)
Listing 1-42: Loading the test data
Note that the test data doesn’t need to be shuffled ➊.
In deep learning and machine learning, the accuracy provides a
measure of a model’s performance by indicating the proportion of
correct predictions it makes. You can compute the accuracy of the
neural network model as follows:
trainer.test(classifier, test_dataloader)
This code evaluates the performance of classifier on the test dataset
provided by test_dataloader. It calculates the accuracy as the number of
correct predictions divided by the total number of predictions,

--- Strana 92 ---
providing a straightforward metric for the model’s capability to
generalize to unseen data.
You should get an accuracy of about 0.67. This accuracy isn’t great,
but don’t worry, you’ll substantially improve it in the next sections.
Visualizing Performance with a Confusion Matrix
You can use confusion matrices to visualize any errors the neural
network is making and to gain insights that can help you improve its
architecture and training hyperparameters. These control how the model
is structured and learns.
Hyperparameters, unlike the trainable parameters that the model
optimizes during training, are set before the training process begins and
include values like the number of layers and neurons, the learning rate,
the batch size, and the number of epochs. These settings dictate the
model’s learning behavior and are crucial for fine-tuning performance,
but they don’t change through backpropagation like trainable
parameters do.
A confusion matrix is a square matrix with a number of rows and
columns equal to the number of classes in the classification problem—
10 in this case. Each row and each column corresponds to one class in
the classification problem, ordered arbitrarily but equally for the two
axes. In this case, the classes have a natural ordering, which is the order
of the digits. An element ci,j of the confusion matrix represents the
number of times the neural network assigned the predicted class j to the
actual class i. For example, in our case, c3,5 corresponds to the number of
times the neural network (incorrectly) classified an image depicting the
digit 3 as the digit 5. This representation makes it easy to see which
classes the model is most commonly confusing—hence the name.
NOTE
We’ve chosen to define the confusion matrix with the ground-truth
digit assigned to the first axis and the predicted digit assigned to the
second axis, but the opposite is also a valid (and common) choice.

--- Strana 93 ---
You can plot the confusion matrix with the plot_confusion_matrix()
function shown in Listing 1-43.
from seaborn import cubehelix_palette, heatmap
def plot_confusion_matrix(classifier, dataloader):
    """Plot confusion matrix."""
    confusion_matrix = np.zeros((10, 10), dtype=int)
 ➊ for image, gt_digit in dataloader:
        predictions = classifier(image)
        max_prediction, pred_digit = predictions.max(dim=1)
        np.add.at(confusion_matrix, (gt_digit, pred_digit), 1) 
    plt.figure(figsize=(10, 8))
 ➋ heatmap(confusion_matrix, annot=True, fmt=".0f", square=True, 
            cmap=cubehelix_palette(light=0.95, as_cmap=True), vmax=150)
    plt.xlabel("Predicted digit", fontsize=15)
    plt.ylabel("Ground truth digit", fontsize=15)
    plt.show()
Listing 1-43: The function to plot the confusion matrix
For simplicity, this code uses the Python package Seaborn, which
simplifies the visualization of common statistical measures, but a similar
effect can be achieved using matplotlib.matshow. The confusion matrix is
computed by iterating through all the images in the test dataset ➊.
Among the various possible options to plot the confusion matrix ➋,
this code uses annot=True to show the value of each element as text on top
of a color, fmt=".0f" to define how the annotation text should be
formatted for visual clarity, square=True to plot the confusion matrix as a
square instead of a rectangle, and vmax=150 to constrain the color bar to
show only values up to 150, which increases the contrast for values not
on the diagonal (which are typically comparatively small, at least if the
classifier works well).
You can plot the confusion matrix of this first attempt at training the
network:

--- Strana 94 ---
plot_confusion_matrix(classifier, test_dataloader)
This should plot a confusion matrix similar to that shown in Figure 1-
20.
Figure 1-20: A confusion matrix of the first neural network
The 5s, 8s, and 9s are the hardest digits to classify for this neural
network. The 2s are also quite hard. However, these difficulties may not
be consistent across training sessions because of variations in the weight
initialization, data shuffling, and other stochastic elements in the
training process.
Making Improvements
In this section, you’ll proceed to improve your neural network and its
training, as is usual in developing machine learning solutions. By

--- Strana 95 ---
gradually trying some new (and fundamental) ideas (covered in more
detail in the following chapters), you’ll see how they affect the network’s
performance, and you’ll gain valuable intuition about which
hyperparameters are most relevant. Specifically, you’ll alter the output
activation of the network, the activation functions of the neurons, and
the training process itself.
Output Representation
Using a proper output normalization function can significantly enhance
the neural network’s performance. Presently, the network assigns a value
from 0 to 1 to each digit, which you can interpret as a probability.
However, since each image represents a single digit, the output
probabilities across all possible digit classes should sum to 1 to reflect
the exclusive nature of the classifications. This adjustment ensures that
the network’s output represents a proper probability distribution over
the digit classes, which can be crucial for the network to provide more
confident and accurate predictions.
This adjustment is typically done using softmax activation, defined as
where ym are the linear outputs produced by the final layer’s neurons
before any activation is applied, often referred to as logits, and ynorm,m
are the normalized outputs.
You can use softmax activation by modifying the architecture of the
network and its compilation, as shown in Listing 1-44.
   from torch.nn import Softmax
➊ classifier_template[..., "activation#-1"].configure(Softmax, dim=-1)
   classifier_softmax = classifier_template.create()
   trainer_softmax = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=1, accelerator="auto")
   trainer_softmax.fit(classifier_softmax, train_dataloader)
ynorm ,m =
eym
∑
9
m=0 eym
    (1.9)

--- Strana 96 ---
   trainer_softmax.test(classifier_softmax, test_dataloader)
Listing 1-44: Using a softmax output activation
This code uses a softmax activation in the output layer ➊ (here,
indicated by the index -1 in "activation#-1").
You should achieve an accuracy of about 0.77. You can plot the
confusion matrix of this second attempt:
plot_confusion_matrix(classifier_softmax, test_dataloader)
This should produce a confusion matrix similar to that shown in Figure
1-21.
Figure 1-21: A confusion matrix of the second neural network

--- Strana 97 ---
The same digits (5s, 8s, and 9s) are still being confused as in the
previous attempts, though to a lesser extent. You can hypothesize that
these digits are universally harder to distinguish.
Even though you are still using the MSE loss here, it is more
common to pair a softmax output layer with a loss function known as
categorical cross-entropy loss, defined as
where ~ym are the ground-truth one-hot-encoded classes. A useful
property of categorical cross-entropy is that minimizing it is equivalent
to maximizing the likelihood estimation. However, to use categorical
cross-entropy, the predictions need to be constrained from 0 to 1, and
must sum to 1, which is ensured by the softmax activation.
Activation Functions
You can further enhance the performance of your neural network by
modifying the activation functions of the neurons. Activation functions
play a crucial role in introducing nonlinearity into the network,
allowing it to discover and learn more-complex patterns in the data.
While sigmoidal functions have traditionally been used, they suffer
from the problem of vanishing gradients for large positive or negative
input values, which can slow the learning process using backpropagation
or even prevent the network from learning at all. The ReLU function
has emerged as a popular alternative because of its ability to maintain a
strong gradient for positive input values, thus accelerating the learning
process and leading to better performance on complex tasks.
With this in mind, you should proceed to update the network’s
activation functions from sigmoid to ReLU, as detailed in Listing 1-45.
   from torch.nn import ReLU
➊ classifier_template[..., "activation#:-1"].configure(ReLU)
   classifier_relu = classifier_template.create()
Lce = −
9
∑
m=0
~y m log ynorm ,m
    (1.10)

--- Strana 98 ---
   trainer_relu = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=1, accelerator="auto")
   trainer_relu.fit(classifier_relu, train_dataloader)
   trainer_relu.test(classifier_relu, test_dataloader)
Listing 1-45: Changing the activation functions of the neurons to ReLU
This code sets the activation functions of all neurons to ReLU,
except for the output layer ➊ (as indicated by the range :-1 in
"activation#:-1").
You should now have an accuracy of around 0.94. You can plot the
corresponding confusion matrix:
plot_confusion_matrix(classifier_relu, test_dataloader)
This should generate a confusion matrix similar to that in Figure 1-22.

--- Strana 99 ---
Figure 1-22: A confusion matrix of the third neural network
This shows a net improvement of the quality of the network
predictions.
Mini-Batches and Optimizer
Batch size and training length are the next hyperparameters you can
play with to see how they affect performance. Using a batch size larger
than 1 allows the neural network to calculate the gradients from the
average of many samples at once. This, in turn, achieves two results.
First, it improves the computational efficiency of the training, allowing
you to train on more data in the same amount of time. Second, it
stabilizes the training by better approximating the optimal direction to
update each weight in each training step.
However, this isn’t to say that a larger batch size is always better. For
example, the increased stochasticity from smaller batch sizes can help

--- Strana 100 ---
the neural network escape local minima in the optimization landscape.
You’ll start by increasing the batch size:
train_dataloader_batch = dl.DataLoader(train_images_digits, shuffle=True, 
                                       batch_size=32)
This creates a new data loader with a batch size of 32.
The choice of optimizer can also have a major impact on the
training. Using plain SGD for updating weights is straightforward but
generally not optimal because it can be inefficient and slow to converge,
often getting stuck in suboptimal points of the complex loss landscape.
Modern deep learning almost universally uses extensions such as root
mean squared propagation (RMSprop) or Adam (D.P. Kingma and J. Ba,
“Adam: A Method for Stochastic Optimization,” arXiv preprint
1412.6980, 2014). The main advantage of these alternatives is that they
change the learning rate for each weight individually during training.
Each algorithm has its own way of doing so, but using some type of
momentum is common. For example, a weight that is updated in the
same direction multiple times in a row will gain momentum and take
larger steps at each iteration, while a weight that changes direction
frequently will have less momentum and take smaller steps.
You can use RMSprop as shown in Listing 1-46. Having increased
the batch size, you can also increase the number of epochs to take
advantage of the faster training.
➊ classifier_template.configure(optimizer=dl.RMSprop(lr=0.001))
   classifier_rmsprop = classifier_template.create()
➋ trainer_rmsprop = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=10, accelerator="auto")
   trainer_rmsprop.fit(classifier_rmsprop, train_dataloader_batch)
   trainer_rmsprop.test(classifier_rmsprop, test_dataloader)
Listing 1-46: Changing the optimizer and increasing the number of epochs
This code sets the optimizer to RMSprop ➊ with a learning rate of
0.001 and increases the number of epochs to 10 ➋.

--- Strana 101 ---
You should now get an accuracy of around 0.97. You can plot the
relative confusion matrix:
plot_confusion_matrix(classifier_rmsprop, test_dataloader)
The confusion matrix should look similar to that shown in Figure 1-23.
Figure 1-23: A confusion matrix of the fourth neural network
Compared to the initial network in Figure 1-20, the errors are fewer
and much more evenly distributed.
Performing Failure Analysis
Finally, you can learn a lot by checking for which inputs the network
fails. In fact, this can give you further insights into which digits are still
difficult for the neural network to classify, thereby suggesting ways to

--- Strana 102 ---
improve its performance. You can select and plot a few inaccurately
predicted digits by using Listing 1-47.
➊ num_images_x_digit = 3
   plt.figure(figsize=(10, num_images_x_digit))
   num_fails_x_digit = np.zeros(10, int)
   for image, gt_digit in test_dataloader:
       gt_digit = int(gt_digit)
       if num_fails_x_digit[gt_digit] < num_images_x_digit:
           predictions = classifier_rmsprop(image)
           max_prediction, pred_digit = predictions.max(dim=1)
           if pred_digit != gt_digit:
               num_fails_x_digit[gt_digit] += 1
               plt.subplot(num_images_x_digit, 10, 
                           (num_fails_x_digit[gt_digit] - 1) * 10 + gt_digit + 1)
               plt.imshow(image.squeeze(), cmap="Greys")
               plt.annotate(str(int(pred_digit)), (.8, 1), (1, 1), 
                            xycoords="axes fraction", textcoords="offset points", 
                            va="top", ha="left", fontsize=20, color="red")
               plt.axis("off")
         
       if (num_fails_x_digit >= num_images_x_digit).all():
           break
   plt.tight_layout()
   plt.show()
Listing 1-47: Failure analysis
This code selects the first three ➊ misclassified images for each digit
and plots them.
Figure 1-24 shows some of the errors made by the trained network
(note that the model you train will likely make different errors).

--- Strana 103 ---
Figure 1-24: Misclassified digits
Some of these misclassified digits are indeed written relatively
sloppily, so the confusion is somewhat understandable.
NOTE
Code Example 1-A, “Classifying the MNIST Digits,” is available at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch01_DNN_classification folder and then
ec01_A_mnist. The mnist.ipynb notebook provides a complete code
example that loads the MNIST digits, trains a fully connected neural
network with two hidden layers to classify them, and analyzes where
the trained network fails.
Summary
In this chapter, you explored dense neural networks, putting together
artificial neurons to solve classification problems. You began by
discovering the essence of an artificial neuron, inspired by its biological
counterpart. This knowledge laid the foundation to build more-complex
neural networks, harnessing the power of interconnected artificial
neurons.
You learned about supervised learning, using labeled datasets to train
your neural networks. In a classical supervised learning approach, neural
networks are trained using labeled datasets containing inputs and
corresponding outputs (or targets). In the training process, the
connection weights between the neurons are iteratively adjusted until

--- Strana 104 ---
the neural network learns to associate the correct output to each input.
This is typically done using backpropagation. Using the
backpropagation algorithm, you implemented the iterative process of
adjusting connection weights, ensuring that your network learned the
correct input-output associations.
Finally, you applied your newly acquired knowledge to classify the
handwritten digits of the MNIST dataset, a rite of passage in the deep
learning community.
Now that you have a firm understanding of classification using dense
neural networks, you’re ready to move to the next chapter, where you’ll
expand your neural network toolkit by exploring regression.
Seminal Works and Further Reading
The concept of artificial neurons was introduced in 1943 by Warren S.
McCulloch and Walter Pitts in “A Logical Calculus of the Ideas
Immanent in Nervous Activity,” published in The Bulletin of
Mathematical Biophysics (volume 5, pages 115–133). This work laid the
theoretical basis for neural computation, presenting a simple yet
fundamental model of a biological neuron, which became a precursor of
artificial neurons.
Building on this foundation, Frank Rosenblatt in 1958 developed
the perceptron model in his work “The Perceptron: A Probabilistic
Model for Information Storage and Organization in the Brain,”
published in Psychological Review (volume 65, pages 386–408). This
article introduced one of the earliest formal models of an artificial
neuron: the perceptron, which is a simple binary classifier that models an
artificial neuron by combining weighted input signals, applying an
activation function, and producing an output based on whether the
result exceeds a certain threshold.
In 1960, Bernard Widrow and Marcian E. Hoff introduced the
adaptive linear element (ADALINE) in “Adaptive Switching Circuits,”
published in the 1960 IRE WESCON Convention Record (pages 96–104).
They modified the learning process of the perceptron by adjusting the
weights rather than changing the activation function.

--- Strana 105 ---
Paul John Werbos made a significant breakthrough in 1974 with his
doctoral thesis “Beyond Regression: New Tools for Prediction and
Analysis in the Behavioral Sciences,” completed at Harvard University.
This work is often credited as the first formal introduction of the
backpropagation algorithm to efficiently train multilayer neural
networks by using the chain rule to compute gradients.
The next critical advance came in 1986 when David E. Rumelhart et
al. published “Learning Representations by Back-Propagating Errors”
in Nature (volume 323, pages 533–536). This work introduced a
practical version of backpropagation, which enabled the efficient
training of multilayer perceptrons by minimizing the error between
predicted and actual outputs. Coauthor Geoffrey E. Hinton was
awarded a share of the 2024 Nobel Prize in Physics for his pioneering
work on neural networks.
Further extending the theoretical capabilities of neural networks,
George Cybenko’s “Approximation by Superpositions of a Sigmoidal
Function,” published in 1989 in Mathematics of Control, Signals, and
Systems (volume 2, pages 303–314), demonstrated that a sufficiently
large multilayer perceptron with sigmoidal activation functions could
approximate any continuous function.
In parallel, Kurt Hornik et al. expanded on Cybenko’s theorem in
“Multilayer Feedforward Networks Are Universal Approximators,”
published in 1989 in Neural Networks (volume 2, pages 359–366). They
demonstrated that multilayer perceptrons with general nonlinear
activation functions could approximate any Borel measurable function.
Finally, in 2006, Geoffrey E. Hinton et al. revisited multilayer
perceptron architectures and introduced techniques to pretrain
multilayer perceptrons in an unsupervised manner in “A Fast Learning
Algorithm for Deep Belief Nets,” published in Neural Computation
(volume 18, pages 1,527–1,554). This approach helped address the
challenges of vanishing gradients, paving the way for effectively training
deeper architectures.

--- Strana 106 ---
CHALLENGE PROJECTS
1-1: MNIST classification from scratch  Implement a dense
neural network from scratch and train it to classify the MNIST
digits. Evaluate how well it works, along the lines of what you’ve
done in this chapter’s project.
1-2: Fashion MNIST  The Fashion MNIST dataset is a large,
freely available database of fashion images commonly used for
training and testing various machine learning systems. Implement
a dense neural network to classify these images, along the lines of
what you’ve done to classify the MNIST digits.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 107 ---
2
CAPTURING TRENDS AND RECOGNIZING
PATTERNS WITH DENSE NEURAL
NETWORKS
In this chapter, you’ll learn how to use artificial neurons and dense
neural networks for capturing trends and patterns through regression—
a fundamental technique in the world of predictive analytics and
modeling. While classification is used to predict discrete categories or
classes (like the 10 digits), regression infers the continuous relationships
between the input data (like positions) and target data (like forces),
allowing neural networks to capture the underlying trends in datasets.
By the end of this chapter, you’ll be able to use regression with
neural networks to identify patterns and approximate unknown
functions, predicting continuous outcomes based on input data in areas
such as financial forecasting, climate modeling, and market trend
analysis. You’ll also learn some new concepts in deep learning, including
batch training, and best practices for data management, particularly the
division of data into training, validation, and test sets.
You’ll then apply this knowledge to a concrete project to speed up
the simulation of an optically trapped particle, which is often used in

--- Strana 108 ---
biophysics labs to exert and measure microscopic forces. In this way,
you’ll gain the skills to use neural networks to emulate a complex
system, creating a digital twin of a system, which simulates the system
without the need to model all its details.
Regressing Data with a Single Neuron
As in Chapter 1, let’s start by implementing a single-neuron regressor to
explore its potential in detail.
Regressing 1D Data
Using a text editor, open the 1D dataset in the data_reg_1d_clean.csv file.
The first line is the header, and the subsequent lines contain the data
points with the input and output values in the first and second columns,
respectively. You can now proceed to analyze this dataset as you did in
Chapter 1.
Loading and Visualizing the Data
Use the load_data() function from loader.py (Listing 1-10) to load the
dataset:
from loader import load_data
(x, y_gt) = load_data(filename="data_reg_1d_clean.csv")
As usual, it’s good practice to verify that the data has been loaded
correctly by using print("x:", x) and print("y_gt:", y_gt), which should
display this:
x: [[-0.79053779]
 [-1.39344279]
 --snip--
 [-0.00933567]]
y_gt: [[-0.2952689 ]
 [-0.59672139]

--- Strana 109 ---
 --snip--
 [ 0.09533216]]
Finally, you can plot the data with the plot_data_1d() function from
plotting.py (Listing 1-2) as shown in Listing 2-1.
from plotting import plot_data_1d
plot_data_1d(x, y_gt)
Listing 2-1: Plotting the 1D data for regression
This code plots Figure 2-1.
Figure 2-1: The 1D data for regression
This plot shows that the data falls neatly along a diagonal line.
Implementing a Single Neuron
You can now implement a neuron to perform a linear regression, using
the code in Listing 2-2.
def neuron_reg_1d(w0, x):
    """Artificial neuron for 1D regression."""

--- Strana 110 ---
    return w0 * x
Listing 2-2: A linear neuron for regression
This function implements a single linear neuron with one
continuous input (x) and one continuous output. The weight of the
neuron (w0) provides the proportionality factor defining the regression
between the neuron input and its output, which essentially tunes the
response of the neuron to its input.
You should now randomly initialize the neuron weight with Listing
2-3.
from numpy.random import default_rng
rng = default_rng()
w0 = rng.standard_normal()
Listing 2-3: Initializing the weight of the neuron
The value of w0 is randomly initialized with a normal distribution.
Then you can use Listing 2-4 to obtain the predictions of this
neuron.
y_p = neuron_reg_1d(w0, x)
Listing 2-4: Obtaining a prediction from the neuron
You can also plot the predictions with the plot_pred_1d() function
(Listing 1-7) from plotting.py as shown in Listing 2-5.
from plotting import plot_pred_1d
plot_pred_1d(x, y_gt, y_p=neuron_reg_1d(w0, x))
Listing 2-5: Plotting both the 1D data and the neuron’s predictions
You should get a plot similar to Figure 2-2.

--- Strana 111 ---
Figure 2-2: Predictions from a randomly initialized neuron
These are not very good predictions, which is to be expected from a
regression model with a random proportionality factor.
Training the Neuron
To improve the performance of this neuron, you need to train it. You
can do this by using the SGD updated for linear regression, as
implemented in Listing 2-6.
num_samples = len(x)
num_train_iterations = 100
eta = .1  # Learning rate
for i in range(num_train_iterations):
    selected = rng.integers(0, num_samples)  # Select random sample
    x0_selected = x[selected]
    y_gt_selected = y_gt[selected]
    y_p_selected = neuron_reg_1d(w0, x0_selected)  # Neuron prediction
    error = y_p_selected - y_gt_selected  # Calculate error

--- Strana 112 ---
 ➊ w0 = w0 - eta * error * x0_selected  # Update neuron weight
    print(f"i={i} w0={w0[0]:.2f} error={error[0]:.2f}")
Listing 2-6: Training of a single neuron for linear regression
This code is very similar to Listing 1-9, which you used to train the
classifier neuron in Chapter 1. The main difference is that the ground
truth is now a continuous function instead of a binary classification.
This iterative optimization process minimizes the square error (error **
2) because the weight update is proportional to the negative derivative
of the squared error with respect to the weight ➊, guiding the neuron
toward lower error values with each iteration.
If you plot the predictions of the trained neuron with the
plot_pred_1d() function (Listing 2-5), you should obtain something
similar to Figure 2-3.
Figure 2-3: Much improved predictions by a trained neuron
Thanks to the training, the performance of the trained neuron has
greatly improved so that the predictions lie very close to the desired
ground-truth values.

--- Strana 113 ---
NOTE
Code Example 2-1, “Regressing 1D Data with a Single Neuron,” is
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch02_DNN_regression folder and then
ec02_1_neuron_reg_1d. The neuron_reg_1d.ipynb notebook
provides a complete code example that loads the data contained in
data_reg_1d_clean.csv, trains a neuron to fit it, and finally uses the
neuron 
to 
predict 
the 
values 
of 
the 
data 
in
data_reg_1d_clean_test.csv. Note that this code also requires
loader.py containing the load_data() function and plotting.py
containing the plot_data_1d() and plot_pred_1d() functions.
EXERCISES
2-1:  Randomly initialize and train the neuron several times.
Observe the variability of the performance of the trained neuron.
What generates such variability?
2-2:  The neuron in Listing 2-2 can never perfectly predict the
data contained in data_reg_1d_clean.csv. This is because this neuron
is far too simple: With only one trainable parameter (w0), it can
converge to only a regression function with intercept at the origin
(0, 0). Therefore, any deviations from such a line cannot be
modeled. How can this problem be overcome?
2-3:  Repeat the training of the neuron, making the learning rate
smaller (for example, eta = 0.01) or larger (for example, eta = 1).
How is the training process affected?
2-4:  Use the trained neuron to analyze the test data generated
with the same underlying model provided in the
data_reg_1d_clean_test.csv test dataset.

--- Strana 114 ---
2-5:  Real data usually presents some noise, so it’s worthwhile for
you to explore the performance of the neuron on noisy data such
as that in data_reg_1d_noisy.csv. Once you’ve trained the neuron,
use it to analyze the test data in data_reg_1d_noisy_test.csv, which is
generated with the same underlying model.
Attempting to Regress More-Complex Data
If you want to consider a more challenging dataset, load the nonlinear
data in data_reg_1d_nonlinear.csv:
(x, y_gt) = load_data(filename="data_reg_1d_nonlinear.csv")
If you plot this data with the plot_data_1d() function (Listing 2-1), you
get the left side of Figure 2-4.
Figure 2-4: The 1D nonlinear data (left) and the prediction of a trained neuron (right)
This data is nonlinear, different from the various datasets you’ve
used until now that had always been generated with a linear underlying
function with intercept around (0, 0). A single neuron with a linear
activation function won’t be able to approximate this dataset
satisfactorily because it lacks the necessary complexity to model the
nonlinearity of the data.
That said, you can still give it a try and initialize the neuron (Listing
2-2), train it (Listing 2-6), and plot the predicted output via the

--- Strana 115 ---
plot_pred_1d() function (Listing 2-5). You should get a plot similar to the
right side of Figure 2-4. The neuron generates data along a line passing
through the origin, which is the best approximation the neuron can
produce, given its limitations.
EXERCISES
2-6:  Use the trained neuron to analyze the test data generated
with the same underlying model provided in
data_reg_1d_nonlinear_test.csv.
2-7:  Play with the model underlying the data. Generate your
own data and test how well the neuron works in various cases. Try
linear and nonlinear as well as noisy and non-noisy data. Try also
moving the position of the intercept.
Regressing 2D Data
Building on your experience with 1D data, you can now move on to
regress multidimensional data.
Loading and Visualizing the Data
Load the 2D data from data_reg_2d_clean.csv:
from loader import load_data
(x, y_gt) = load_data(filename="data_reg_2d_clean.csv")
As always, it’s good practice to inspect the data, first by printing it
with print("x:", x) and print("y_gt:", y_gt), which should display this:
x: [[ 0.09539425  0.62586094]
 [ 1.38026523  1.66483856]
 --snip--
 [-0.34130321  0.26006667]]

--- Strana 116 ---
y_gt: [[ 0.7304667 ]
 [ 0.48457333]
 --snip--
 [ 0.80136988]]
The input data corresponds to vectors x = (x0, x1), while the
corresponding output data is constituted by a single value per vector.
Now plot the data by using the plot_data_2d() function from
plotting.py (Listing 1-11) as shown in Listing 2-7.
from plotting import plot_data_2d
plot_data_2d(x, y_gt)
Listing 2-7: Plotting the 2D data for regression
This code color-codes the value of each point in a 2D scatterplot.
The resulting plot is shown in Figure 2-5.
Figure 2-5: The 2D data for regression
The data points seem to ascend from smaller values in the lower-
right corner to larger values in the upper-left corner.

--- Strana 117 ---
Upgrading the Neuron with Multiple Inputs
Now you need to upgrade the neuron from one to two inputs. You can
do this by modifying Listing 2-2 to add an extra input, as shown in
Listing 2-8.
def neuron_reg_2d(w, x):
    """Artificial neuron for multidimensional regression."""
    return x @ w
Listing 2-8: The artificial neuron with multiple inputs (by modifying Listing 2-2)
This code implements a linear neuron with multiple inputs (the x
NumPy array), an equal number of weights (the w NumPy array), and a
linear continuous output, calculated as the scalar product between the
input vector and the weight vector.
Next, initialize the weights of the neuron with Listing 2-9.
--snip--
w = rng.standard_normal(size=(2,))
Listing 2-9: Initializing the weight of the neuron for 2D regression (by modifying Listing 2-3)
Then you can get a prediction from the neuron, using Listing 2-10.
y_p = neuron_reg_2d(w, x)
Listing 2-10: Obtaining a prediction from the neuron for 2D regression (by modifying Listing
2-4)
Finally, plot the predictions of this neuron and compare them with
the ground truth via the plot_pred_2d() function from plotting.py (Listing
1-16), as shown in Listing 2-11.
from plotting import plot_pred_2d
plot_pred_2d(x, y_gt, y_p=neuron_reg_2d(w, x))
Listing 2-11: Plotting both the 2D data and the neuron’s predictions
Since the weights are chosen randomly, you can expect the
predictions to be pretty much random as well.

--- Strana 118 ---
Training with Two Inputs
You should now train this neuron using Listing 2-12.
--snip--
for i in range(num_train_iterations):
    selected = rng.integers(0, num_samples)  # Select random sample
    x_selected = x[selected]
    y_gt_selected = y_gt[selected]
    y_p_selected = neuron_reg_2d(w, x_selected)  # Neuron prediction
    error = y_p_selected - y_gt_selected  # Calculate error
    w = w - eta * error * x_selected  # Update neuron weights
    print(f"i={i} w0={w[0]:.2f} w1={w[1]:.2f} error={error[0]:.2f}")
Listing 2-12: Training the neuron with two inputs (by modifying Listing 2-6)
This code is a small variation on the training code shown in Listing
2-6.
The performance of the neuron rapidly improves during the
training. You can plot the predictions of the trained neuron with the
plot_pred_2d() function (Listing 2-11). You should get a scatterplot similar
to that shown in Figure 2-6.

--- Strana 119 ---
Figure 2-6: Predictions by a trained neuron
The values of the predictions encoded in the colors of the crosses
are in excellent agreement with the values of the ground truth encoded
in the colors of the dots.
NOTE
Code Example 2-2, “Regressing 2D Data with a Single Neuron,” is
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch02_DNN_regression folder and then
ec02_2_neuron_reg_2d. The neuron_reg_2d.ipynb notebook
provides a complete code example that loads the data contained in
data_reg_2d_clean.csv, trains a neuron to fit that data, and finally
uses the neuron to predict the values of the data in
data_reg_2d_clean_test.csv. Note that this code also requires
loader.py containing the load_data() function and plotting.py
containing the plot_data_2d() and plot_pred_2d() functions.

--- Strana 120 ---
EXERCISES
2-8:  Use the trained neuron to analyze the test data generated
with the same underlying model in data_reg_2d_clean_test.csv.
What are the main differences you observe?
2-9:  Repeat the same training on some noisy data such as that in
data_reg_2d_noisy.csv. You can also test the trained neuron on the
data in data_reg_2d_noisy_test.csv.
2-10:  Repeat the same training on some nonlinear data, such as
that in data_reg_2d_nonlinear.csv, and test the trained neuron on
the data in data_reg_2d_nonlinear_test.csv.
2-11:  Play with the model underlying the data. Generate your
own data and test how well the neuron works for various cases. Try
linear and nonlinear data as well as noisy and non-noisy data.
2-12:  Just as you did for the classification in Chapter 1, you can
now add a bias as an additional input with a constant value equal—
for example, to +1. This will permit your neuron to also represent
regression lines or planes that don’t pass by the origin of the
coordinate system. Use this neuron with a bias to revisit the
predictions made in the previous section. Verify that the
predictions improve, especially when the underlying model doesn’t
intercept the origin.
Regressing Data with a Two-Layer Neural Network
Similar to what you saw in the classification case in Chapter 1, a two-
layer neural network can be more powerful and flexible than a single
neuron for regression as well. In fact, while a single linear neuron can
model only linear functions, a two-layer neural network with one
hidden layer can also model nonlinear functions, allowing the network

--- Strana 121 ---
to represent more-complex relationships between inputs and outputs
and to learn more-abstract features from the input data.
As usual, start by loading the data, in this case in
data_reg_2d_linear.csv:
from loader import load_data
(x, y_gt) = load_data(filename="data_reg_2d_linear.csv")
You can use the plot_data_2d() function (Listing 2-7) to plot the data,
generating Figure 2-7.
Figure 2-7: The scatterplot of the linear data
This scatterplot shows that the values of this dataset decrease from
the top-left corner to the bottom-right corner. Note also that this is a
larger dataset with 100 data points, which you can verify using
print(len(x)) and print(len(y_gt)).
Implementing a Dense Neural Network

--- Strana 122 ---
You can now implement a two-layer dense neural network for
regression as shown in Listing 2-13.
def dnn2_reg(wa, wb, x):
    """Two-layer dense neural network for classification."""
    return sigmoid(x @ wa) @ wb
Listing 2-13: A two-layer dense neural network
This function implements a two-layer dense neural network with
input x and an output that is nonlinear because the hidden layer has
neurons with a sigmoid() activation function (Listing 1-23). You can
define the number of neurons with
num_neurons = 3
which you can increase to strengthen the representational power of the
neural network.
You need to randomly initialize the weight matrices, using Listing 2-
14.
   from numpy.random import default_rng
   rng = default_rng()
➊ wa = rng.standard_normal(size=(2, num_neurons))  # Input weights layer 1
➋ wb = rng.standard_normal(size=(num_neurons, 1))  # Input weights layer 2
Listing 2-14: Initializing the weight matrices
Since you have two inputs, three neurons in the first layer, and one
neuron in the output layer, the weight matrices between the inputs and
the first layer ➊ and between the first layer and the output ➋ have
dimensions 2×3 and 3×1, respectively.
You can now obtain this neural network’s predictions with Listing 2-
15.
y_p = dnn2_reg(wa, wb, x)
Listing 2-15: Obtaining predictions by the dense neural network

--- Strana 123 ---
Use the plot_pred_2d() function to plot the predictions above the
ground truth, as shown in Listing 2-16.
--snip--
plot_pred_2d(x, y_gt, y_p=dnn2_reg(wa, wb, x))
Listing 2-16: Plotting both the 2D data and the neuron’s predictions (by modifying Listing 2-
11)
As usual, you shouldn’t expect much agreement between the ground
truth and the predictions of the neural network, given the random
initialization of the weights.
Training with Error Backpropagation
You can train this network by using the error backpropagation
algorithm. To do so, you need to update the training cycle provided in
Listing 2-12, resulting in Listing 2-17. (You also need the first derivative
of the sigmoid function provided in Listing 1-30.)
   from numpy import reshape, sum, transpose
   --snip--
➊ num_train_iterations = 10 ** 5
   --snip--
   for i in range(num_train_iterations):
       # Select random sample
       selected = rng.integers(0, num_samples)
    ➋ x_selected = reshape(x[selected], (1, -1))
    ➌ y_gt_selected = reshape(y_gt[selected], (1, -1))
       # Detailed neural network calculation
       x_selected_a = x_selected  # Input layer 1
       p_a = x_selected_a @ wa  # Activation potential layer 1
       y_selected_a = sigmoid(p_a)  # Output layer 1
   
       x_selected_b = y_selected_a  # Input layer 2
       p_b = x_selected_b @ wb  # Activation potential layer 2
       y_selected_b = p_b  # Output layer 2 (output neuron)

--- Strana 124 ---
       y_p_selected = y_selected_b  # Prediction
   
       # Update weights
       error = y_p_selected - y_gt_selected
       delta_b = error * 1
       wb = wb - eta * delta_b * transpose(x_selected_b)
       delta_a = sum(wb * delta_b, axis=1) * d_sigmoid(p_a)
       wa = wa - eta * delta_a * transpose(x_selected_a)
       if i % 100 == 0:
           print(f"{i} y_p={y_p_selected[0, 0]:.2f} error={error[0, 0]:.2f}")
Listing 2-17: Training with error backpropagation (by modifying Listing 2-12)
To get a proper training, you need to increase the training
interactions to 105 ➊ from 102 (try out what happens with intermediate
values such as 103 and 104).
In each training iteration, the code extracts the selected input ➋ and
ground-truth output ➌ in vector form so that they have a shape equal to
1 by the number of inputs and 1 by the number of outputs, respectively.
Then the code performs a detailed calculation of the predicted output,
which produces the same result as sigmoid(x @ wa) @ wb in the definition of
the neural network in Listing 2-13. Finally, the state of the network is
printed every 100 epochs.
You can now plot the ground truth and predictions with Listing 2-
16. You should get a scatterplot similar to Figure 2-8.

--- Strana 125 ---
Figure 2-8: Predictions by a trained two-layer neural network
The network performance is very good, as shown by the agreement
of the colors between the ground-truth dots and the prediction crosses.
NOTE
Code Example 2-3, “Regressing 2D Data with a Two-Layer Neural
Network,” 
is 
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch02_DNN_regression folder and then
ec02_3_dnn2_reg. The dnn2_reg.ipynb notebook provides a
complete code example that loads the data in data_reg_2d_linear.csv,
trains a two-layer dense neural network to fit that data, and finally
uses the network to predict the values of the data in
data_reg_2d_linear_test.csv. Note that this code also requires
loader.py containing the load_data() function and plotting.py
containing the plot_data_2d() and plot_pred_2d() functions.

--- Strana 126 ---
EXERCISES
2-13:  Use the trained neural network to analyze the test data
generated with the same underlying model provided in
data_reg_2d_linear_test.csv.
2-14:  The two-layer neural network that you used in this section
doesn’t perform well on nonlinear data. To verify this, repeat the
same analysis in this section with the nonlinear dataset in
data_reg_2d_nonlinear.csv. Then test the trained network on the
data in data_reg_2d_nonlinear_test.csv.
2-15:  Gradually increase the number of neurons by changing
the num_neurons hyperparameter (for example, to 10 or 20).
Determine how this affects the quality of the predictions of the
trained neural network.
2-16:  Reimplement the network with alternative activation
functions. How do the training and performance change?
2-17:  Similarly to the classification tasks you explored in
Chapter 1, to predict more-complex, nonlinear data, you’ll require
deeper neural networks because they can learn more-abstract and
hierarchical representations of the data. Implement a three-layer
neural network and revisit the previous examples. You should
observe that the neurons and epochs required to achieve a certain
performance with a three-layer neural network are substantially
less than with a two-layer neural network. Furthermore, with a
three-layer neural network, you should now be able to predict
datasets that were impossible to predict with a two-layer neural
network, such as data_reg_2d_nonlinear_1.csv and
data_reg_2d_nonlinear_2.csv.
Training Using Batches

--- Strana 127 ---
The way you present the training data to the neural network or artificial
neuron matters a great deal. Until now, you’ve used online training,
which presents only one sample to the neural network at each iteration,
after which its weights and biases are updated.
However, it’s often convenient to batch multiple training samples
together and perform the update by using the average error signal. This
is known as batch training (sometimes referred to as mini-batch training)
and is more effective in avoiding local minima, as averaging across a
batch of samples tends to smooth out the error landscape, leading to
more stable and consistent gradient estimates. Additionally, this
approach reduces oscillatory behaviors in the weight updates, since the
averaging process mitigates the impact of outliers or noisy data,
allowing for more controlled and directed adjustments toward the
global minimum.
In an extreme case of batch learning, the whole training set is used
in each iteration, which is known as steepest-descent training.
In general, you can achieve the best learning by using an
intermediate batch size. Furthermore, as in the case of the learning rate,
you can also vary the batch size (usually by increasing it) as the training
progresses and moves toward more-stable global minima.
Plotting Predictions vs. Ground Truth
Start by loading the nonlinear data in data_reg_2d_nonlinear.csv:
from loader import load_data
(x, y_gt) = load_data(filename="data_reg_2d_nonlinear.csv")
You can use the two-layer neural network defined in Listing 2-13
(note that you also need the sigmoid function from Listing 1-23) but
slightly larger, setting the following:
num_neurons = 10
Then randomly initialize the weights with Listing 2-14 and calculate
the neural network’s predictions with Listing 2-15.

--- Strana 128 ---
As usual, you can plot these predictions above the ground truth via
the plot_pred_2d() function (Listing 2-16). The resulting plot is shown on
the left side of Figure 2-9.
Figure 2-9: A scatterplot of predictions by a randomly initialized neural network (left) and a
plot of the predictions versus ground-truth values (right)
As expected, using a randomly initialized neural network leads to
random predictions that don’t agree with the ground truth.
Innovating on the graphical representation of the results, you can
now plot the predictions versus the ground-truth values. To do so, add
the plot_pred_vs_gt() function, shown in Listing 2-18, to plotting.py.
def plot_pred_vs_gt(y_gt, y_p):
    """Plot prediction versus ground truth values."""
 ➊ plt.plot([-1, 1], [-1, 1], "k:")
    plt.scatter(y_gt, y_p, s=10) 
    plt.axis("square")
    plt.xlabel("y ground truth", fontsize=24)
    plt.ylabel("y predicted", fontsize=24)
    plt.tick_params(axis="both", which="major", labelsize=16)
    plt.show()
Listing 2-18: The function to plot predictions versus ground-truth values

--- Strana 129 ---
This function also plots the bisectrix of the plane ➊, a line
representing the ideal scenario of the predicted values exactly matching
the actual values, illustrating a perfect prediction.
Then import this function and plot the predictions versus ground
truth, using Listing 2-19.
from plotting import plot_pred_vs_gt
plot_pred_vs_gt(y_gt, y_p=dnn2_reg(wa, wb, x))
Listing 2-19: Plotting the predictions versus ground-truth values
You should get a plot similar to the right side of Figure 2-9. As
expected, the randomly initialized neural network generates random
predictions, as you can tell from the scattering of the dots, which don’t
collapse on the bisectrix line as they would for a series of perfect
predictions.
In general, the prediction-versus-ground-truth plot like the one shown
in Figure 2-9 is a useful tool to evaluate the performance of a neural
network. The plot’s horizontal axis represents the true values (ground
truth) of the data, while its vertical axis represents the network’s
predictions. A perfect prediction would result in a scatterplot with all
the data points falling on the bisectrix line, indicating that the network’s
predictions perfectly match the ground-truth values.
However, in practice, the scatterplot will likely show some deviation
from this line, indicating that the network’s predictions aren’t perfect.
The degree of deviation can give insights into how well the network is
performing and where it might be making mistakes. In this case, since
the network is randomly initialized, the predictions are also random.
Note, however, that even random predictions aren’t necessarily
uniformly distributed but can present a structure arising from the
architecture of the network and the initialization of its weights and
biases.
EXERCISE

--- Strana 130 ---
2-18:  Revisit the previous examples and plot the predictions
versus the ground-truth values before and after training the
neuron or neural network.
Training with Mini-Batches
You can now implement batch training, as shown in Listing 2-20, which
builds on Listing 2-17 and uses the first derivative of the sigmoid
function (Listing 1-30).
from numpy import mean, reshape, sum, transpose, zeros
--snip--
num_batches = 10
batch_size = int(num_samples / num_batches)
num_epochs = 10 ** 4
--snip--
for epoch in range(num_epochs):
    for batch_start in range(0, num_samples, batch_size):
        dwa = zeros(wa.shape)  # Initialize weight increments layer 1
        dwb = zeros(wb.shape)  # Initialize weight increments layer 2
     ➊ for selected in range(batch_start, batch_start + batch_size):
            x_selected = reshape(x[selected], (1, -1))
            y_gt_selected = reshape(y_gt[selected], (1, -1))
            --snip--
            # Update weight increments
            error = y_p_selected - y_gt_selected
            delta_b = error * 1
         ➋ dwb = dwb - eta * delta_b * transpose(x_selected_b)
            delta_a = sum(wb * delta_b, axis=1) * d_sigmoid(p_a)
         ➌ dwa = dwa - eta * delta_a * transpose(x_selected_a)
     ➍ wa = wa + dwa / batch_size  # Update weights layer 1
     ➎ wb = wb + dwb / batch_size  # Update weights layer 2
 ➏ y_p = dnn2_reg(wa, wb, x)

--- Strana 131 ---
    mse_train = mean((y_p - y_gt) ** 2)
    print(f"epoch={epoch} MSE={mse_train:.4f}")
Listing 2-20: Training a neural network with mini-batches (by modifying Listing 2-17)
This script uses batches of samples to train a two-layer neural
network. Thus, the script introduces the number of batches (num_batches)
and calculates the batch size (batch_size). The training iterates over the
epochs and over all the batches within each epoch. Within each batch,
the script first initializes the weight increments dwa and dwb to 0s; then it
iterates over all samples in the current batch ➊, adding to the weight
increments the corresponding weight variations ➋ ➌; finally, it updates
the weights by adding the weight increments divided by the batch size
➍ ➎ (it’s also possible not to divide, which leads to a faster but less
stable convergence—similar to increasing the learning rate). At the end
of each epoch, the script calculates the predicted results for all samples
in the training set ➏ and calculates and prints out the corresponding
MSE.
Figure 2-10 shows the predictions of a trained neural network. The
left side of the plot is obtained using the plot_pred_2d() function (Listing
2-16), and the right side by using the plot_pred_vs_gt() function (Listing
2-19).

--- Strana 132 ---
Figure 2-10: Predictions by a trained neural network using a scatterplot (left) and a
prediction-versus-ground-truth plot (right)
The scatterplot on the left shows that there is now a decent
agreement between the predictions of the network (color of the crosses)
and the ground-truth values (color of the dots).
The prediction-versus-ground-truth plot on the right confirms this
observation. In fact, the data points are now much closer to the dotted
bisectrix line than for the untrained neural network (right side of Figure
2-9). This indicates that the trained network’s predictions are more
accurate and closer to the true values.
Tracking Training Metrics
The evolution of the MSE provides valuable information on the
training process. Therefore, you can gain further insights into how the
training is proceeding by storing the values of the MSE as a function of
the epoch. You can do this by modifying Listing 2-20 as shown in
Listing 2-21.
--snip--
mse_train = zeros((num_epochs,))
for epoch in range(num_epochs):
    --snip--
    y_predicted = sigmoid(x @ wa) @ wb

--- Strana 133 ---
    mse_train[epoch] = mean((y_p - y_gt) ** 2)
    print(f"epoch={epoch} MSE = {mse_train[epoch]:.4f}")
Listing 2-21: Batch training storing the MSE (by modifying Listing 2-20)
You can now write the plot_mse() function to plot the evolution of the
MSE during training, as shown in Listing 2-22 (but don’t add it to
plotting.py yet, as you’ll soon update it).
def plot_mse(mse):
    """Plot MSE evolution during training."""
    fig, ax = plt.subplots(1, 2)
    fig.set_size_inches(10, 5)
 
    ax[0].plot(mse, c="tab:orange")
    ax[0].set_xlabel("epoch", fontsize=24)
    ax[0].set_ylabel("MSE", fontsize=24)
    ax[0].tick_params(axis="both", which="major", labelsize=16)
    ax[1].loglog(mse, c="tab:orange")
    ax[1].set_xlabel("epoch", fontsize=24)
    ax[1].set_ylabel("MSE", fontsize=24)
    ax[1].tick_params(axis="both", which="major", labelsize=16)
 
    plt.tight_layout()
    plt.show()
Listing 2-22: The function to plot the MSE evolution during training
Then use this function to plot the MSE:
plot_mse(mse_train)
The resulting plot should be similar to Figure 2-11.

--- Strana 134 ---
Figure 2-11: Evolution of the MSE during training
During training, the MSE steadily decreases, first quickly and then
more slowly. Its evolution is plotted using both linear and logarithmic
scales. The linear scale highlights absolute changes, while the
logarithmic scale emphasizes relative changes.
EXERCISE
2-19:  Show that the MSE calculated on the whole training set
decreases more quickly when using batch training with
intermediate batch sizes than when using either online training
(num_batches = len(x)) or steepest-descent training (num_batches = 1).
Randomizing the Batches
Randomizing the order in which the samples are presented to the
network in each training epoch is one last improvement that you can
make to the batch training algorithm. Until now, the order of the
training samples has been the same in each epoch. This can introduce

--- Strana 135 ---
unwanted biases in the trained neural network. The order
randomization can be achieved by changing Listing 2-21 as shown in
Listing 2-23.
from numpy import mean, reshape, sum, transpose, zeros
from numpy.random import permutation
--snip--
for epoch in range(num_epochs):
    # Permute samples
 ➊ permuted_order_samples = permutation(num_samples)
 ➋ x_permuted = x[permuted_order_samples]
 ➌ y_gt_permuted = y_gt[permuted_order_samples]
    for batch_start in range(0, num_samples, batch_size):
        --snip--
        for selected in range(batch_start, batch_start + batch_size):
            x_selected = reshape(x_permuted[selected], (1, -1))
            y_gt_selected = reshape(y_gt_permuted[selected], (1, -1))
            --snip--
Listing 2-23: Randomizing the sample order in batch training (by modifying Listing 2-21)
This code first calculates a permutation of the order of the samples
➊ and then applies the same permutation to both the inputs ➋ and
ground truths ➌ used to train the network.
The resulting network performs better, which you can verify by
plotting its predictions. More interestingly, the MSE now doesn’t
decrease monotonically as in Figure 2-11, because in each epoch the
network is trained with a different sequence of the same samples.
To show the trend more clearly, you can update the plot_mse()
function (Listing 2-22) by adding a black trend line, obtained as a
smoothed version of the MSE evolution, as shown in Listing 2-24.
from numpy import convolve, full
def plot_mse(mse, smooth=11):
    """Plot MSE evolution during training with trend line."""
    mse_smooth = convolve(mse, full((smooth,), 1 / smooth), mode="valid")

--- Strana 136 ---
    --snip--
    ax[0].plot(range(smooth // 2, len(mse) - smooth // 2), mse_smooth, "k--")
    --snip--
    ax[1].loglog(range(smooth // 2, len(mse) - smooth // 2), mse_smooth, "k--")
    --snip--
Listing 2-24: The function to plot the MSE evolution during training with its trend line (by
modifying Listing 2-22)
This function uses 11 points for the smoothing convolution. Note
that, when plotting the smoothed MSE, some of the initial and final
points are skipped. In fact, the smoothing doesn’t provide correct values
for these points because of boundary conditions (alternatively, you could
calculate a running average, which wouldn’t create this problem but
would lag behind the MSE).
You can now add this function to plotting.py and use it to plot the
evolution of the MSE, as shown in Listing 2-25.
from plotting import plot_mse
plot_mse(mse_train)
Listing 2-25: Plotting the evolution of the training MSE
This should result in a plot similar to Figure 2-12.

--- Strana 137 ---
Figure 2-12: The evolution of training the MSE with randomized batches, and the trend line
The MSE now doesn’t decrease steadily but tends to oscillate
because of the randomization of the batches. The black dashed line
represents a smoothed version of the MSE that allows you to see its
trend more clearly.
NOTE
Code Example 2-4, “Fitting Data with a Neural Network Trained
Using 
Batch 
Training,” 
is 
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch02_DNN_regression folder and then
ec02_4_dnn2_reg_batches. 
The 
dnn2_reg_batches.ipynb
notebook provides a complete code example that loads the data
contained in the data_reg_2d_nonlinear.csv file, trains a two-layer
neural network to fit the data with batch training, and finally uses the
network to predict the values of the data in the file
data_reg_2d_nonlinear_test.csv. Note that this code also requires
loader.py containing the load_data() function and plotting.py

--- Strana 138 ---
containing the plot_data_2d(), plot_pred_2d(), plot_pred_vs_gt(), and
plot_mse() functions.
EXERCISES
2-20:  Show how the final MSE improves as you go from online
training to batch training, and finally to randomized batch
training. Compare these results with the performance of the
trained neural network on the test set in
data_reg_2d_nonlinear_test.csv.
2-21:  While it’s a common practice to gradually decrease the
learning rate during training, you can usually get a similar learning
curve by increasing the batch size during training instead. Try this.
Dividing Data into Multiple Datasets
As with other machine learning techniques, when training neural
networks, the available data is usually divided into multiple datasets.
Three datasets are commonly used in the different stages of creating the
machine learning model: training, validation, and testing.
The training dataset is a set of examples used to initially fit the
parameters of the model—for example, the weights in a neural network.
After being fit on the training dataset, the model should be able to make
predictions on new, unseen data.
After training, the fitted model is used to predict the responses for
the observations in the validation dataset, which provides an unbiased
evaluation of a model fit while tuning the model’s hyperparameters—for
example, the number of hidden layers and neurons per layer in a neural
network. Validation datasets can also be used for regularization by early
stopping (stopping training when the error on the validation dataset
starts to increase, as this is a sign of overfitting to the training dataset).

--- Strana 139 ---
However, this simple-sounding procedure is complicated in practice by
the fact that the validation error may fluctuate during training,
producing multiple local minima. This complication has led to the
creation of many ad hoc rules for deciding when overfitting has truly
begun.
Finally, the testing dataset is used to provide an unbiased evaluation
of a final model fit. If the data in the test dataset is strictly not used in
training (for example, in cross-validation), the test dataset is often
referred to as a holdout dataset. (Confusing the terminology, the term
validation dataset is sometimes used instead of testing dataset, or vice versa
—for example, if the original dataset is partitioned into only two
subsets.)
Deciding the sizes and strategies to split the available data among
training, validation, and test datasets depends on the problem at hand
and on the amount of available data. As a rule of thumb, often about 70
percent of the available data is used for training, and the rest is split
between validation and testing.
Splitting the Data
You will now split the data. Start by loading the usual nonlinear data
contained in the data_reg_2d_nonlinear.csv file:
from loader import load_data
(x, y_gt) = load_data(filename="data_reg_2d_nonlinear.csv")
This dataset contains 50 samples, which you can split into a training
dataset (70 percent, 35 samples) and a validation dataset (30 percent, 15
samples) with Listing 2-26.
   from numpy import delete, split
   from numpy.random import choice
   num_samples = len(x)
➊ split = .70

--- Strana 140 ---
   num_samples_train = int(split * num_samples)
➋ train_idx = choice(num_samples, num_samples_train, replace=False)
   x_train = x[train_idx]  # Train inputs
   y_gt_train = y_gt[train_idx]  # Train ground truths
   x_val = delete(x, train_idx, axis=0)  # Validation inputs
   y_gt_val = delete(y_gt, train_idx, axis=0)  # Validation ground truths
Listing 2-26: Splitting data into training and validation datasets
This code splits the data into a training dataset (70 percent of
samples ➊) and a validation dataset (the remaining 30 percent of
samples), randomly selecting the samples that should belong to the
training dataset ➋, which is generally better than just taking the first
initial 70 percent of the samples to avoid introducing unwanted biases.
You can now initialize a two-layer neural network. Run Listing 2-13
and set num_neurons = 10 (note that you’ll also need the sigmoid function in
Listing 1-23), initialize its weights with Listing 2-14, and predict the
results of the training and validation datasets with Listing 2-27.
y_p_train = dnn2_reg(wa, wb, x_train)
y_p_val = dnn2_reg(wa, wb, x_val)
Listing 2-27: Obtaining predictions for the training and validation datasets
Plot the predictions for the two datasets with the plot_pred_2d()
function (Listing 2-11) to generate scatterplots, and the plot_pred_vs_gt()
function (Listing 2-19) to generate the prediction-versus-ground-truth
plots, as shown in Listing 2-28.
from plotting import plot_pred_2d, plot_pred_vs_gt
plot_pred_2d(x_train, y_gt_train, y_p=dnn2_reg(wa, wb, x_train))
plot_pred_vs_gt(y_gt_train, y_p=dnn2_reg(wa, wb, x_train))
plot_pred_2d(x_val, y_gt_val, y_p=dnn2_reg(wa, wb, x_val))
plot_pred_vs_gt(y_gt_val, y_p=dnn2_reg(wa, wb, x_val))
Listing 2-28: Plotting the predictions on the training and validation datasets

--- Strana 141 ---
As usual, you can expect the resulting prediction to look quite
random, since the network isn’t trained yet.
Training and Validating the Neural Network
Proceed to train this neural network with Listing 2-29 (you’ll also need
the first derivative of the sigmoid function in Listing 1-30).
   --snip--
   num_samples_train = len(x_train)
➊ num_batches = 7
   batch_size = int(num_samples_train / num_batches)
   --snip--
   mse_train, mse_val = zeros((num_epochs,)), zeros((num_epochs,))
   for epoch in range(num_epochs):
       # Permute samples
       permuted_order_samples = permutation(num_samples_train)
       x_permuted = x_train[permuted_order_samples]
       y_gt_permuted = y_gt_train[permuted_order_samples]
   
       for batch_start in range(0, num_samples_train, batch_size):
           --snip--
       y_p_train = dnn2_reg(wa, wb, x_train)
       mse_train[epoch] = mean((y_p_train - y_gt_train) ** 2)
       y_p_val = dnn2_reg(wa, wb, x_val)   
       mse_val[epoch] = mean((y_p_val - y_gt_val) ** 2)
       print(f"{epoch} MSE train={mse_train[epoch]:.4f} val=
{mse_val[epoch]:.4f}")
Listing 2-29: Training with the training dataset while monitoring the MSE (by modifying
Listing 2-23)
This code introduces small changes to Listing 2-23 to switch from
training on the full dataset (x and y_gt) to training only on the training
dataset (x_train and y_gt_train), and to keep track of the evolution of the
MSE for both training and validation datasets. Importantly, it adjusts

--- Strana 142 ---
the number of batches ➊ so that each batch still has an integer number
of samples (a non-integer number of samples may generate an error).
You can then plot the training and validation MSE curves by using
the plot_mse_train_vs_val() function shown in Listing 2-30.
def plot_mse_train_vs_val(mse_t, mse_v, smooth=11):
    """Plot training and validation MSE evolution during training."""
    mse_t_s = convolve(mse_t, full((smooth,), 1 / smooth), mode="valid")
    mse_v_s = convolve(mse_v, full((smooth,), 1 / smooth), mode="valid")
    --snip--
    ax[0].plot(mse_t, c="tab:orange", label="train")
    ax[0].plot(mse_v, ":", c="tab:green", label="validation")
    ax[0].plot(range(smooth // 2, len(mse_t) - smooth // 2), mse_t_s, "k--")
    ax[0].plot(range(smooth // 2, len(mse_v) - smooth // 2), mse_v_s, "k--")
    ax[0].legend(fontsize=16)
    --snip--
    ax[1].loglog(mse_t, c="tab:orange", label="train")
    ax[1].loglog(mse_v, ":", c="tab:green", label="validation")
    ax[1].loglog(range(smooth // 2, len(mse_v) - smooth // 2), mse_t_s, "k--")
    ax[1].loglog(range(smooth // 2, len(mse_v) - smooth // 2), mse_v_s, "k--")
    ax[1].legend(fontsize=16)
    --snip--
Listing 2-30: The function to plot the evolution of the training and validation MSE (by
modifying Listing 2-24)
Also add this function to plotting.py, import it, and use it with Listing
2-31.
from plotting import plot_mse_train_vs_val
plot_mse_train_vs_val(mse_train, mse_val)
Listing 2-31: Plotting the evolution of the training and validation MSE
You should get a plot similar to Figure 2-13.

--- Strana 143 ---
Figure 2-13: Evolution of the training and validation MSE
These curves show that the training MSE consistently decreases
with the number of epochs, but the validation MSE at some point starts
increasing. This is a common problem with neural networks (and
indeed all supervised machine learning approaches) known as overfitting.
Overfitting is a modeling error in statistics that occurs when a function
is too closely aligned to a limited set of data points. As a result, the
model is useful in reference only to its training dataset, and not to any
other datasets, such as the validation dataset.
NOTE
Comparing the performance on training and validation data can also
help detect underfitting. Underfitting occurs when the model is too
simple and performs poorly on both the training and validation
datasets. This happens when the model isn’t able to capture the
underlying patterns in the data. One way to detect underfitting is by
observing that the model’s performance on the training and validation
datasets is similarly poor and doesn’t improve even after training for
many iterations.

--- Strana 144 ---
You can see the consequences of overfitting more clearly by plotting
the predictions of the trained network on all datasets. To do this, you
also need to load the test data in the data_reg_2d_nonlinear_test.csv test
dataset:
(x_test, y_gt_test) = load_data(filename="data_reg_2d_nonlinear_test.csv")
Then compare the predictions and ground-truth values by using an
extension of Listing 2-28, as shown in Listing 2-32.
--snip--
plot_pred_2d(x_test, y_gt_test, y_p=dnn2_reg(wa, wb, x_test))
plot_pred_vs_gt(y_gt_test, y_p=dnn2_reg(wa, wb, x_test))
Listing 2-32: Plotting the predictions on the training, validation, and testing datasets (by
modifying Listing 2-28)
This code visualizes data and predictions through scatterplots and
prediction-versus-ground-truth plots for the training, validation, and
testing datasets. You should see plots similar to those in Figure 2-14.

--- Strana 145 ---

--- Strana 146 ---
Figure 2-14: Training (first row), validation (second row), and testing (third row) predictions
by a trained two-layer network
Notice that the spread of the data in the validation dataset is larger
than in the training dataset. Furthermore, and more worryingly, the
spread of the data on the testing dataset is even larger (note the
different scales), which is a clear sign of overfitting.
NOTE
Code Example 2-5, “Training a Neural Network Splitting the Data,”
is 
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch02_DNN_regression folder and then
ec02_5_dnn2_reg_split. The 
dnn2_reg_split.ipynb 
notebook
provides a complete code example that loads the data contained in the
data_reg_2d_nonlinear.csv file and splits that data into a training,
a validation, and a testing set. Then the code example trains a two-
layer neural network via the training data while monitoring the
training and validation MSE. Finally, it uses the trained network to
predict the values of the test data (holdout dataset) in the
data_reg_2d_linear_test.csv file. Note that this code also requires
loader.py containing the load_data() function and plotting.py
containing the plot_data_2d(), plot_pred_2d(), plot_pred_vs_gt(), and
plot_mse_train_vs_val() functions.
EXERCISES
2-22:  With the data of the previous example, observe how the
prediction quality and overfitting depend on the representational
power of the network (for example, the number of layers and
neurons).
2-23:  Implement an early stopping strategy to prevent
overfitting by monitoring the (smoothed) validation MSE and

--- Strana 147 ---
interrupting the training when it starts increasing. What practical
problems do you encounter?
Project 2A: Emulating a Physical System
You’ll now use a neural network to emulate a physical system. This
approach embodies the concept of a digital twin, a virtual representation
of a physical system that’s created to mirror and predict a real-world
system—or a more realistic and computationally expensive model of
such a system. As you’ll see, using a digital twin, you can get faster and
more accurate simulations, thus enabling the study of more-complex
physical systems that would otherwise be computationally impossible.
Specifically, you’ll simulate the forces acting on a microscopic
spherical particle held by an optical tweezer. Its laser light typically has a
wavelength between 400 nanometers, or nm, (blue) and 1,064 nm (near
infrared). Nowadays, optical tweezers are regularly used as microscopic
force transducers in a variety of fields, including biology, physics, and
nanotechnology. For example, they’ve been used to measure the forces
involved in the mechanical properties of DNA, the behavior of motor
proteins, and interactions at the cellular level, as well as to manipulate
nanoparticles and to study the dynamics of colloidal systems.
Despite their importance, calculating the forces generated by optical
tweezers remains a computationally challenging task, often relying on
approximations that depend on the size of the particle. For particles
much larger than the laser wavelength, the geometrical–optics
approximation is commonly used; this method uses rays to describe an
optical field, as illustrated in Figure 2-15.

--- Strana 148 ---
Figure 2-15: A focused light beam impinging on a spherical particle in the geometrical–
optics approximation
The laser beam is represented as a collection of rays coming from
the bottom of the figure and toward the spherical particle. When the
rays reach the particle, they get partly reflected and partly transmitted.
The force exerted on the particle is calculated from the reflection and
refraction of each ray. This method requires dividing the laser beam
into a large set of rays, leading to a trade-off between calculation speed
and accuracy.
In the rest of this project, you’ll see how to use a dense neural
network to simulate the optical forces generated by the laser beam on
the microscopic particle. This approach offers several advantages over
the geometrical–optics approximation. One of its most significant
benefits is the increased speed of neural network–based calculations (up
to several orders of magnitude faster). Additionally, the neural network–
based approach results in more-accurate simulations. You’ll follow in the
footsteps of David Bronte Ciriza and co-workers who in 2022 published
“Faster and More Accurate Geometrical-Optics Optical Force
Calculation Using Neural Networks” in ACS Photonics (volume 10,
pages 234–241).

--- Strana 149 ---
Loading the Theoretical and Geometrical–Optics Optical Forces
Download the data for this project from a GitHub repository as shown
in Listing 2-33.
from os import path, system
if not path.exists("optical_forces_dataset"):
    system("git clone https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/optical_forces_dataset")
Listing 2-33: Downloading the optical forces dataset
This code downloads the optical forces dataset in the
optical_forces_dataset folder. This folder contains optical forces calculated
for a microsphere in an optical tweezer with these parameters: laser
power P = 5 mW, refractive index of the medium nm = 1.33 (water),
refractive index of the particle np = 1.5 (glass), radius of the particle R =
10–6 m, focal length f = 0.1 mm, numerical aperture NA = 1.3, and beam
waist w0 = 0.1 mm.
Theoretical Optical Forces
Conveniently, it’s possible to calculate with an exact analytical formula
the theoretical values of the optical force along the z-axis as a function
of the z-coordinate, fz(z). These values will serve as the ground truth to
which you’ll compare the results obtained both with the geometrical–
optics approximation and with the neural network. These are in the
fz_vs_z_theory.txt file, which contains two columns corresponding to the
z-position in micrometers and to the z-component of the optical force
in piconewtons (pN). You can load this data with Listing 2-34.
   import numpy as np
   fz_vs_z_path = path.join("optical_forces_dataset", "fz_vs_z_theory.txt")
   data_theo = [] 
   with open(fz_vs_z_path, "r") as file:
       for line in file:

--- Strana 150 ---
           row = []
           for number in line.split(","):
            ➊ row.append(float(number))
           data_theo.append(row)
   data_theo = np.array(data_theo)
   z_theo = data_theo[:, 0]
➋ fz_theo = data_theo[:, 1] * 1e3  # Conversion from pN to fN
Listing 2-34: Loading the theoretical data
This code loads the file with the theoretical data from the
fz_vs_z_path path. Then it initializes the data_theo list to store the data;
opens the file for reading; initializes the row list to store the numbers in a
row; splits each line into individual numbers, which are separated by
commas; appends these numbers to row after having converted them
from string to float ➊; and, finally, appends row to data_theo. Note the
conversion factor from piconewtons, which is how the data is saved in
the file, to femtonewtons (fN) ➋, which is how you’ll plot it later.
To print the number of positions and forces, use
print(f"Theory: {len(z_theo)} positions and {len(fz_theo)} forces")
which should print
Theory: 101 positions and 101 forces
confirming the number of data points you have for the theory.
Geometrical–Optics Optical Forces
The geometrical–optics data obtained by dividing the laser beam into
100 rays is in two pre-saved NumPy arrays contained in the
xyz_go_100rays.npy and fxyz_go_100rays.npy files. The xyz_go_100rays.npy
file contains a four-dimensional (4D) NumPy array with the x-, y-, and
z-positions of the particle where the optical forces are calculated, while
the fxyz_go_100rays.npy file contains a 4D NumPy array with the
corresponding x-, y-, and z-components of the optical force at each
position.

--- Strana 151 ---
This data was simulated via the computational Optical Tweezers in
Geometrical Optics (OTGO) toolbox. This toolbox was published in
2015 by Agnese Callegari and co-workers in “Computational Toolbox
for Optical Tweezers in Geometrical Optics” in the Journal of the Optical
Society of America B (volume 32, pages B11–B19).
You can load these files and extract the relevant positions and forces
by using Listing 2-35.
xyz_go = np.load(path.join("optical_forces_dataset", "xyz_go_100rays.npy"))
z_go = xyz_go[50, 50, :, 2]  # Particle position - z-component
fxyz_go = np.load(path.join("optical_forces_dataset", "fxyz_go_100rays.npy"))
fz_go = fxyz_go[50, 50, :, 2]  # Optical force - z-component
Listing 2-35: Loading the geometrical–optics data
This code loads the two NumPy arrays from the files where they’re
stored. Then it selects the slices of the NumPy arrays corresponding to
the positions and optical forces along the propagation axis of the optical
beam.
Finally, to print the number of positions and forces, use
print(f"GO: {len(z_go)} positions and {len(fz_go)} forces")
which should print:
GO: 101 positions and 101 forces
Now verify that the theoretical positions fz_theo and the geometrical–
optics positions fz_go are the same by checking that fz_theo == fz_go
returns an array of true values.
Before proceeding further, use Listing 2-36 to plot the theoretical
optical forces and those calculated with geometrical optics.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
plt.plot(z_go, fz_go, c="gray", linewidth=2, label="GO")
plt.plot(z_theo, fz_theo, c="k", linewidth=2, linestyle=":", label="theory")
plt.title("$F_z$ vs $z$ at $x=y=0$", fontsize=16)

--- Strana 152 ---
plt.legend(fontsize=16)
plt.xlabel("$z$ [$\mu$m]", fontsize=16)
plt.ylabel("$F_z$ [fN]", fontsize=16)
plt.tick_params(axis="both", which="major", labelsize=8)
plt.show()
Listing 2-36: Comparing theoretical optical forces and optical forces calculated with
geometrical optics
This code should generate Figure 2-16.
Figure 2-16: Comparison of theoretical optical forces versus optical forces calculated with
geometrical optics
The gray solid line in Figure 2-16 shows the optical forces
calculated with geometrical optics, while the black dashed line
represents the exact model obtained from the theoretical calculation.
Notice that the geometrical–optics line doesn’t exactly follow the
theoretical line. These artifacts depend on the finite number of rays and
affect the accuracy of the geometrical–optics calculation.

--- Strana 153 ---
NOTE
Notice the differences between text and binary file formats for data
storage. Text files, typically saved with a .txt or .csv extension, contain
human-readable text and are easily editable with standard text
editors. They’re favored for their simplicity and accessibility across
various programming languages but are larger because of ASCII
character storage and require manual data processing. NumPy binary
files store data in a non–human readable binary format, usually with
an .npy extension. They are more space and processing efficient, as
you’ve seen with NumPy’s np.save() and np.load() functions, but they
require specific software or libraries for access, limiting their flexibility
compared to text files.
Loading and Preparing the Training Data
To train the neural network, we used the OTGO toolbox to simulate
approximately 105 optical force data points around the optical tweezer’s
center. These are stored in the sphere_100rays directory in 101 files
named force_grid_3D=1.txt, force_grid_3D=2.txt, and so on. Each row in
these files consists of eight numbers with the format [R, np, x, y, z, fx, fy,
fz], where R ≡ 10–6 m is the particle radius, np ≡ 1.5 is its refractive
index, (x, y, z) are the coordinates of its position (in meters), and (fx, fy,
fz) are the components of the optical force it experiences (in newtons).
From a Single File
To load this data, start by writing a function to load a single file, as
shown in Listing 2-37.
def load_data_file(filename):
    """Load a datafile with optical forces."""
    data = []
    with open(filename, "r") as file:
        for line in file:
            row = []

--- Strana 154 ---
         ➊ for number in line.split():
             ➋ row.append(float(number))
         ➌ data.append(row)
    return data
Listing 2-37: The function to load a single datafile containing optical forces
This function reads the data in the file into the data 2D list. The
function splits each line into individual numbers separated by spaces ➊
and stores these numbers in the row 1D list ➋, which is eventually
appended to data ➌. Finally, the function returns data, where each row
represents a line in the file and each element in a row represents a
number in that line.
You can now use this function with Listing 2-38.
data = load_data_file(path.join(
    "optical_forces_dataset", "sphere_100rays", "force_grid_3D=1.txt",
))
Listing 2-38: Loading a datafile with optical forces
Using print(data), you can have a look at the output of this function:
[[1e-06, 1.5, -4e-06, -4e-06, -6e-06, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0], 
[1e-06, 1.5, -4e-06, -4e-06, -5.88e-06, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0], 
[1e-06, 1.5, -4e-06, -4e-06, -5.76e-06, -3.72116747e-14, 1.00147531e-13, 
    9.37947815e-14], 
--snip--
Each row consists of eight numbers, as described at the end of the
previous section. You need only the positions and forces, so you can edit
the load_data_file() function (Listing 2-37) to remove the first two
numbers, corresponding to the radius and refractive index.
Furthermore, since the numerical values of the positions and forces are
on the order of 10–6 (meters) and 10–15 (newtons), respectively, it’s
convenient to rescale them to make them of order 1, which is more
suitable to train a neural network. You can do all this with the modified
load_data_file() function in Listing 2-39.

--- Strana 155 ---
def load_data_file(filename):
    --snip--
    with open(filename, "r") as file:
        for line in file:
            row, count = [], 0
            for number in line.split():
                if 2 <= count <= 4:
                 ➊ row.append(float(number) * 1e6)  # From m to um
                elif 5 <= count <= 7:
                 ➋ row.append(float(number) * 1e15)  # From N to fN
                count += 1
            data.append(row)
 ➌ return np.array(data)
Listing 2-39: The function to load a datafile with optical forces (by modifying Listing 2-39)
This function selects only the positions and forces and rescales them
to make them of order 1. The function initializes the count counter to
keep track of the number of elements in a row. It skips the first two
elements in the row. Then it converts the next three numbers from
string to float and rescales these positions into units of micrometers ➊.
It converts the next three numbers from string to float and rescales
these forces into units of femtonewtons ➋. Finally, it converts the
output to a NumPy array ➌. Using this function with Listing 2-38 and
printing the resulting data with print(data), you should see the following
output:
[[  -4.          -4.          -6.           0.           0.
     0.       ]
 [  -4.          -4.          -5.88         0.           0.
     0.       ]
 [  -4.          -4.          -5.76       -37.2116747  100.147531
    93.7947815]
 --snip--
This is much more intuitive and easier to read than the previous output.
From All Files

--- Strana 156 ---
You can now use Listing 2-40 to load all data into a single NumPy array
iterating over all files.
data = np.empty((0, 6))
for i in range(1, 102):
 ➊ filename = path.join("optical_forces_dataset", "sphere_100rays", 
                         f"force_grid_3D={i}.txt")
 ➋ data = np.append(data, load_data_file(filename), axis=0)
Listing 2-40: Loading all optical force data
This code uses the load_data_file() function to load all 101 datafiles
into a single NumPy array. The data empty NumPy array is initialized
with six columns corresponding to the three positions and three force
components. Then the code determines the platform-independent path
to the file ➊. Finally, the data is uploaded from the file and appended to
the data array. The axis parameter in the np.append() function specifies the
axis along which the values should be appended ➋; axis=0 means that the
new values will be added as new rows in the array.
You can verify the number of data points that have been loaded with
print(f"{np.shape(data)[0]} data points with {np.shape(data)[1]} variables")
which prints
1030301 data points with 6 variables
confirming the exact number of data points available for training and
validation.
Training and Validation Datasets
Finally, you need to split the data into training and validation datasets.
You can do this with Listing 2-41.
   train_split = .80
   train_size = int(len(data) * train_split)
➊ np.random.shuffle(data)  # In-place shuffle

--- Strana 157 ---
   data_train, data_val = data[:train_size], data[train_size:]
   xyz_train, fxyz_train = data_train[:, :3], data_train[:, 3:]
   xyz_val, fxyz_val = data_val[:, :3], data_val[:, 3:]
Listing 2-41: Splitting the data into training and validation datasets
This script splits the data into training and validation datasets, where
train_split represents the ratio of the data that should be used for
training. The NumPy function shuffle() ➊ shuffles the data randomly in
place and, only after having shuffled the data, separates the positions
(xyz_train and xyz_val) from the forces (fxyz_train and fxyz_val).
Verify the size of the datasets with print(f"{len(xyz_train)} training
datapoints") and print(f"{len(xyz_val)} validation datapoints"), printing 824240
training datapoints and 206061 validation datapoints. This confirms that the
split is correct, as 80 percent of the data points are in the training set
and 20 percent are in the validation set.
Implementing the Neural Network
You can now implement the neural network with Listing 2-42.
import deeplay as dl
mlp_model = dl.MultiLayerPerceptron(
    in_features=3, hidden_features=[256, 256, 256], out_features=3,
).create()
Listing 2-42: Implementing the neural network
This code implements the neural network that takes as inputs the
position of the microscopic sphere and returns the predicted optical
force that the optical tweezer exerts on the sphere. The
MultiLayerPerceptron class from Deeplay creates a dense neural network
with three inputs (in_features) corresponding to the coordinates of the
particle position (x, y, z), three hidden layers (hidden_features) with 256
neurons each, and three outputs (out_features) corresponding to the three
components of the force (fx, fy, fz).
Finally, use print(mlp_model) to print the summary of the neural
network and use print(sum(p.numel() for p in mlp_model.parameters())) to print

--- Strana 158 ---
the number of trainable parameters, which is 133,379.
Next, you need to compile the neural network to assign it a loss
function and an optimizer, using Listing 2-43.
from torch.nn import MSELoss as MSE
from torchmetrics import MeanAbsoluteError as MAE
regressor = dl.Regressor(
    mlp_model, loss=MSE(), optimizer=dl.Adam(), metrics=[MAE()],
).create()
Listing 2-43: Compiling the neural network
This code adds the model you’ve just created to the Regressor class.
Then it sets MSE as the loss function and Adam as the optimizer. It also
adds mean absolute error (MAE) as a metric to be monitored during
training. The MAE is a more straightforward indicator of how well you
are doing with the force estimation, as it’s expressed in units of
femtonewton instead of femtonewton squared, as with the MSE.
Finally, print the summary of the compiled network with
print(regressor). It’s good to get used to checking these summaries
regularly to ensure that the code is implemented correctly.
Implementing Data Loaders
Now you need to define some data loaders. These streamline the
process of feeding data into the training algorithm, ensuring efficient
and organized access to the dataset during the training of your model.
To do this, you need to define a custom dataset, as shown in Listing 2-
44.
from torch.utils.data import Dataset
class GODataset(Dataset):
    """Geometrical optics dataset."""
    def __init__(self, r, f):
        """Initialize dataset."""

--- Strana 159 ---
        self.r, self.f = r, f
    def __len__(self):
        """Return number of position-force couples."""
        return len(self.r)
    def __getitem__(self, i):
        """Get next position-force couple."""
        return (self.r[i].astype(np.float32), self.f[i].astype(np.float32))
Listing 2-44: Implementing a custom dataset
The GODataset class inherits from the PyTorch Dataset class and
contains three mandatory methods: __init__() to initialize the dataset,
__len__() to determine its length, and __getitem__() to retrieve individual
samples. These methods are required by PyTorch to properly integrate
the class with the data loader. An instance of GODataset contains pairs of
input data (the positions r) and corresponding target data (the forces f).
You can now create instances of this dataset for the training and
validation data and set up the corresponding data loaders, using Listing
2-45.
train_dataset = GODataset(xyz_train, fxyz_train)
train_dataloader = dl.DataLoader(train_dataset, batch_size=1024)
val_dataset = GODataset(xyz_val, fxyz_val)
val_dataloader = dl.DataLoader(val_dataset, batch_size=1024)
Listing 2-45: Setting up the data loaders for the training and validation data
The data loaders efficiently load and process the data in batches
during the training and validation of the neural network.
Training the Neural Network
You can train the neural network with the code in Listing 2-46.
trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=100, accelerator="auto")
trainer.fit(regressor, train_dataloader)
Listing 2-46: Training the neural network

--- Strana 160 ---
This code uses the trainer.fit() method to train the neural network.
The training runs for 100 epochs with hardware acceleration (for
example, GPU) if available.
You might also want to monitor the training process. You can do this
using a logger, as shown in Listing 2-47.
   from lightning.pytorch.loggers import CSVLogger
   trainer = dl.Trainer(
       max_epochs=100, accelerator="auto", 
    ➊ logger=CSVLogger("logs", name="regressor"), log_every_n_steps=20,
   )
➋ trainer.fit(regressor, train_dataloader, val_dataloader)
Listing 2-47: Training the neural network while logging the training metrics (by modifying
Listing 2-46)
CSVLogger creates the logs folder, which in turn contains the regressor
folder ➊. Inside this folder, the logger creates a new, progressively
numbered folder for each training session, starting with the 0 folder,
where it records various training metrics in the metrics.csv file every 20
training steps for both the training data and the validation data ➋.
You can access these results by using the Pandas library, as shown in
Listing 2-48.
   import pandas as pd
➊ version = 0
   logs = pd.read_csv(path.join("logs", "regressor", f"version_{version}", 
                                "metrics.csv"))
   # Group by epoch and extract train loss and MAE
   train_epoch = logs[logs.train_loss_epoch.notnull()].epoch
➋ train_loss = logs[logs.train_loss_epoch.notnull()].train_loss_epoch
➌ train_mae = (logs[logs.trainMeanAbsoluteError_epoch.notnull()]
                .trainMeanAbsoluteError_epoch)
   # Group by epoch and extract val loss and MAE

--- Strana 161 ---
   val_epoch = logs[logs.val_loss_epoch.notnull()].epoch
➍ val_loss = logs[logs.val_loss_epoch.notnull()].val_loss_epoch
➎ val_mae = (logs[logs.valMeanAbsoluteError_epoch.notnull()]
              .valMeanAbsoluteError_epoch)
Listing 2-48: Extracting the training metrics
This code extracts the data from the first version of the log ➊, which
is created the first time the neural network is trained and held in the 0
folder. Subsequent versions will be numbered sequentially and held in
the corresponding folders named 1, 2, and so on. Within the metrics.csv
file, the training loss (MSE) and MAE are contained in the
train_loss_epoch ➋ and trainMeanAbsoluteError_epoch ➌ columns, while the
validation loss (MSE) and MAE are contained in the val_loss_epoch ➍ and
valMeanAbsoluteError_epoch ➎ columns.
You can use Listing 2-49 to plot the training history.
plt.plot(train_epoch, train_loss, label="train", c="gray", linestyle="--")
plt.plot(val_epoch, val_loss, label="val", c="orange")
plt.title("Loss (MSE)", fontsize=24)
plt.xlabel("Epoch", fontsize=16)
plt.ylabel("Loss (MSE) [fN$^2$]", fontsize=16)
plt.tick_params(axis="both", which="major", labelsize=8)
plt.legend(fontsize=16)
plt.show()
plt.plot(train_epoch, train_mae, label="train", c="gray", linestyle="--")
plt.plot(val_epoch, val_mae, label="val", c="orange")
plt.title("MAE", fontsize=24)
plt.xlabel("Epoch", fontsize=16)
plt.ylabel("MAE [fN]", fontsize=16)
plt.tick_params(axis="both", which="major", labelsize=8)
plt.legend(fontsize=16)
plt.show()
Listing 2-49: Plotting the training metrics
The resulting plot should be similar to Figure 2-17.

--- Strana 162 ---
Figure 2-17: The training history with the MSE loss function (left) and the MAE (right) as a
function of the training epoch
At the end of the training, the neural network should have an MAE
on the order of about 30 fN. This is quite small compared with the
characteristic value of the optical forces, which is in the thousands of
femtonewtons, as shown in Figure 2-16. This means that you can safely
use the forces predicted by the neural network when evaluating the
optical forces generated by the optical tweezer.
Evaluating Performance
You can now compare the results of the neural network to the theory
and geometrical–optics calculations shown in Figure 2-16. To do this,
you need to first calculate the neural network predictions for the same
z-positions as for the theory and geometrical–optics calculations, using
Listing 2-50.
   import torch
   positions_nn = torch.zeros((z_theo.shape[0], 3))
   positions_nn[:, 2] = torch.from_numpy(z_theo)
➊ positions_nn = positions_nn.to(regressor.device)

--- Strana 163 ---
➋ forces_nn = regressor(positions_nn).cpu().detach().numpy()
   fz_nn = forces_nn[:, 2]
Listing 2-50: Calculating the neural network predictions
Once positions_nn is prepared, this code moves it to the same device
(CPU or GPU) that is being used by the neural network ➊. Then the
code ensures that the neural network prediction is moved to the CPU
and detached from the computational graph ➋. The computational graph
is a representation of the operations and their corresponding gradients
applied during the forward pass, including the model’s weights and
inputs, used for the backpropagation.
You can then expand Listing 2-36 to add the plotting of the neural
network predictions, as shown in Listing 2-51.
plt.plot(z_go, fz_go, c="gray", linewidth=2, label="GO")
plt.plot(z_theo, fz_nn, c="orange", linewidth=2, label="NN")
plt.plot(z_theo, fz_theo, c="k", linewidth=2, linestyle=":", label="theory")
--snip--
Listing 2-51: Comparing theory, geometrical–optics calculations, and neural network
predictions (by modifying Listing 2-36)
The resulting plot is shown in Figure 2-18.

--- Strana 164 ---
Figure 2-18: Comparison of theory, geometrical–optics (GO) calculations, and neural
network (NN) predictions
The neural network provides more-accurate results than
geometrical optics. In fact, geometrical optics introduces artifacts due to
the division of the continuous laser beam into a finite number of rays.
The neural network manages to remove these artifacts because it’s
designed to be complex enough to learn the smooth force profile, but
not the superimposed fluctuating artifacts, achieving an accuracy higher
than that of the training data.
NOTE
Code Example 2-A, “Simulating the Forces Acting on an Optically
Trapped 
Particle,” 
is 
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch02_DNN_regression folder and then
ec02_A_optical_forces. 
The 
optical_forces.ipynb 
notebook
provides a complete code example that loads a set of precalculated

--- Strana 165 ---
optical forces acting on a microsphere held by an optical tweezer and
uses these forces to train a dense neural network to predict the optical
forces as a function of the particle position.
Summary
In this chapter, you used dense neural networks for regression,
expanding your deep learning knowledge beyond classification. First,
you implemented regression with a single neuron, exploring how to
predict continuous outputs with both 1D and 2D data. This
foundational step was vital to grasp the differences between
classification and regression.
You then moved on to implementing more-complex neural
networks. Starting with two-layer networks, you applied the principles
from Chapter 1 in the context of regression. Through this, you gained
hands-on experience in designing and training neural networks via error
backpropagation, a concept you’re now very familiar with.
A significant focus of this chapter has been on the practicalities of
neural network training. You learned techniques such as training with
mini-batches, tracking training metrics, and the importance of batch
randomization. Understanding how to split datasets into training,
validation, and testing sets was another crucial skill you learned. This
knowledge is key to preventing overfitting and ensuring that your
models generalize well to new data.
The culmination of this chapter was a comprehensive project
emulating a physical system using neural networks. This project
challenged you to apply all the concepts you learned to simulate the
forces acting on an optically trapped particle. This is an example of how
neural network regression can be effectively utilized to model complex
phenomena. By training a neural network to estimate optical forces, this
simulation demonstrates the real-world applicability of neural network
regression in bridging the gap between theoretical concepts and
practical, scientific applications.

--- Strana 166 ---
Now that you have a solid understanding of how to use dense neural
networks for both classification and regression, you’re well prepared to
dive into the next chapter, where you’ll learn to use convolutional neural
networks for image analysis—a key domain in the evolving landscape of
deep learning.
Seminal Works and Further Reading
The exploration of improving training efficiency through batch size
adjustments gained attention with the work by Samuel L. Smith et al. in
their 2018 article “Don’t Decay the Learning Rate, Increase the Batch
Size,” published in Proceedings of the International Conference on Learning
Representations (ICLR 2018) and on arXiv (article number 1711.00489).
This work demonstrated that increasing the batch size, instead of
reducing the learning rate, could maintain training stability and
efficiency as training progresses.
Project 2A draws on methods described in “Faster and More
Accurate Geometrical-Optics Optical Force Calculation Using Neural
Networks” by David Bronte Ciriza et al., published in 2022 in ACS
Photonics (volume 10, pages 234–241). This work builds on the
techniques in “Machine Learning Reveals Complex Behaviours in
Optically Trapped Particles” by Isaac C.D. Lenton et al., published in
2020 in Machine Learning: Science and Technology (volume 1, article
number 045009). These studies employ neural networks to accelerate
the calculation of optical forces acting on microscopic particles and
permitting the study of complex behaviors.
CHALLENGE PROJECTS
2-1: Digital twin for weather forecasting  Develop a dense
neural network to create a digital twin for local weather
forecasting. Using historical weather data (for example,
temperature, pressure, humidity, wind speed), design and train a

--- Strana 167 ---
model to predict these parameters for the next day. Evaluate the
model’s accuracy and discuss its potential as a simple digital twin
for weather prediction.
2-2: Building energy optimization with neural networks 
Create a neural network model to optimize energy usage in a
commercial building, taking into account weather, occupancy, and
time factors. Your task is to gather relevant data, design the
network for energy prediction, simulate scenarios for optimal
energy use, and evaluate the model’s effectiveness in reducing
energy consumption while maintaining operational efficiency.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 168 ---
3
PROCESSING IMAGES WITH
CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS
In this chapter, you’ll dive into convolutional neural networks, the
primary tool for using deep learning for image analysis. You’ll then
apply this knowledge to classifying blood smears used to identify
malaria and to measuring the position of microscopic particles from
their images.
You’ll begin by exploring how convolutions provide powerful tools
to extract information from images. You’ll learn to implement
convolutional layers—the fundamental building blocks of convolutional
neural networks. Then you’ll discover how downsampling and
upsampling layers are used to modify the spatial resolution of the
feature maps generated by convolutional layers in advanced
convolutional architectures. You’ll also learn how to use heatmaps to
better understand the workings of convolutional neural networks,
showcasing the features they learn in an accessible and insightful way.
This chapter ends with two projects that demonstrate the creative
potential of convolutional neural networks by generating artistic and
visually stimulating outputs. The DeepDreams project demonstrates
how to use convolutional neural networks to transform images into

--- Strana 169 ---
dreamlike scenes, showcasing the network’s ability to amplify patterns in
a visually intriguing way. Finally, the style transfer project explores how
you can apply convolutional neural networks to merge the style of one
image with the content of another, leading to captivating results.
Understanding Convolutions
A convolution is a blending process that combines two sets of data to
produce a new set. Imagine you have a sequence of numbers (call this
your main data) and a smaller set of numbers (think of this as a filter).
You apply this filter to your main data by sliding it across, step-by-step.
At each step, you multiply the numbers in the filter with the
numbers they cover in the main data, and then add these up to get a
single number. This process is repeated across the entire main data
sequence. The resulting series of numbers is your output—a
transformed version of the original data that can highlight some of its
properties.
This method is widely used in signal and image processing, where it
helps in tasks like sharpening or blurring signals and images, as you’ll
see shortly.
Convolving 1D Data
To understand how a 1D convolution works, consider a sequence of
values in a 1D signal. You may want to compute its moving average,
which is derived at each point from its adjacent values in the sequence.
You can implement this with a 1D convolution, as shown in Listing 3-1.
   import numpy as np
   signal = np.array([0, 2, 0, 2, 0, 2, 0, 2, 0])
   filter1d = np.ones(2) / 2
➊ conv1d_length = signal.shape[0] - filter1d.shape[0] + 1
   conv1d = np.zeros((conv1d_length,))

--- Strana 170 ---
   for i in range(conv1d_length):
    ➋ conv1d[i] = np.sum(signal[i:i + filter1d.shape[0]] * filter1d)
Listing 3-1: Implementing a moving average with a 1D convolution
This script calculates the moving average of a 1D signal by using a
1D convolution. It begins by defining the signal array with nine data
points, representing the original 1D signal. Next, it creates the filter1d
filter of length 2 with values [0.5, 0.5], indicating that each element
within a two-point window of the signal will contribute equally to the
average.
The convolution process starts by first determining the length of the
output array ➊, which is calculated as the length of the signal minus the
length of the filter plus 1. This calculation is essential to ensure that the
convolution process covers the entire signal without exceeding its
bounds. The reason for adding 1 is to account for the number of valid
complete placements of the filter over the signal. The new conv1d array of
this length is initialized to store the results. The script then performs
the convolution operation by iteratively sliding the filter along the
signal. At each step ➋, the script multiplies corresponding elements of
the signal and the filter, sums them up, and stores the result in conv1d.
You can use print(conv1d) to print the resulting array, which
represents the convolved signal:
[1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1]
This is a smoothed version of the original signal; while the original
signal alternated 0s and 2s, the resulting signal is always 1.
Figure 3-1 illustrates this process. The signal on the left of the figure
is convolved with a rectangular filter [0.5, 0.5] obtaining the averaged
signal, corresponding to that calculated in Listing 3-1.

--- Strana 171 ---
Figure 3-1: 1D convolutions of a signal with various filters
The other two panels of Figure 3-1 show the effect of convolving a
signal with different filters. On the right, a signal is convolved with a
Sobel filter of length 3 performing a differentiation operation often used
to detect steps. Finally, at the bottom, another signal is convolved with a
Gaussian filter of length 5 with unitary standard deviation obtaining
another smoothed version of the signal.
EXERCISES
3-1:  Detect the presence of steps in a signal by using a Sobel
filter. For example, use the Sobel filter of length 3 [-1, 0, 1] with
various signals (for your reference, in 1D, the Sobel filter is the
same as the Prewitt filter). With a constant signal, you should get a
null convolution. On the other hand, with a signal featuring an
abrupt change (such as a step function), you should get a
convolution with a spike near the change point.

--- Strana 172 ---
3-2:  Smooth a signal by convolving it with a Gaussian filter. For
example, you can use a Gaussian filter of length 5 [0.0545, 0.2442,
0.4026, 0.2442, 0.0545].
3-3:  Detect a specific pattern in a signal by convolving it with a
filter matching the pattern. The convolution will have a high value
at the locations where the pattern is present in the signal.
3-4:  Sharpen a signal by first smoothing it with a Gaussian filter
and then subtracting this smoothed version of the signal from the
original one.
Convolving 2D Data
To extend the concept of convolutions to higher dimensions, you’ll now
implement a 2D convolution using Listing 3-2.
➊ image = np.array([
       [1, 1, 0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0, 1, 1], 
       [1, 1, 0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0, 1, 1], 
       [0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0], 
       [0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0], 
   ])
➋ filter2d = np.ones((2, 2)) / 4
   conv2d_height = image.shape[0] - filter2d.shape[0] + 1
   conv2d_width = image.shape[1] - filter2d.shape[1] + 1
   conv2d = np.zeros((conv2d_height, conv2d_width))
   for i in range(conv2d_height):
       for j in range(conv2d_width):
           conv2d[i, j] = np.sum(
               image[i:i + filter2d.shape[0], j:j + filter2d.shape[1]] * filter2d
           )
Listing 3-2: Implementing a 2D convolution
This script convolves a 4×10–pixel (height by width) image ➊ with a
2×2–pixel filter ➋, using a procedure similar to that used for the 1D

--- Strana 173 ---
convolution. The 2D convolution process uses two nested for loops,
which iterate over each pixel position in the image where the filter can
be applied. At each position, the filter overlaps with a part of the image,
and an element-wise multiplication followed by a sum is computed.
This sum represents the convolved value at that specific location in the
output array. This procedure is repeated across the entire image.
If you print the resulting convolution with print(conv2d), you get a
smoothed version of the original image:
[[1.  0.5 0.  0.5 1.  0.5 0.  0.5 1. ]
 [0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5]
 [0.  0.5 1.  0.5 0.  0.5 1.  0.5 0. ]]
You can see that this output is a smoothed version of the original image
from the gradual transitions in pixel values: Instead of abrupt shifts from
1 to 0 as in the original image, there is now an intermediate value of 0.5.
This output is also an image with smaller dimensions (3×9 pixels) than
the original image, corresponding to the valid complete placements of the
filter over the image, which are areas where the filter fully fits within the
original image boundaries during the convolution process.
Figure 3-2 illustrates this process.
Figure 3-2: A 2D convolution of an image with a filter
The input image at the top is convolved with the filter, generating
the convolved image at the bottom, which is often referred to as a

--- Strana 174 ---
feature map.
EXERCISES
3-5:  Detect the edges in an image by convolving it with a 2D
Prewitt filter. For example, use a filter with values [[-1, 0, 1], [-1,
0, 1], [-1, 0, 1]] to detect vertical edges, and a filter with values
[[1, 1, 1], [0, 0, 0], [-1, -1, -1]] to detect horizontal edges.
Alternatively, you could use 2D Sobel filters with values [[-1, 0, 1],
[-2, 0, 2], [-1, 0, 1]] and [-1, -2, -1], [0, 0, 0], [1, 2, 1] for the
same purposes.
3-6:  Blur an image by convolving it with a 2D Gaussian filter.
For example, use a Gaussian filter of size 5×5 with a standard
deviation of 1.
3-7:  Detect a specific pattern in an image by convolving it with a
filter matching the pattern.
If the input image contains multiple color channels, such as in RGB
(red, green, and blue) images, the convolution combines all the color
channels, as shown in Figure 3-3.

--- Strana 175 ---
Figure 3-3: A 2D convolution of an RGB image with a filter
For a multichannel image, the image data is represented as a 3D
array (height by width by channels), as shown by the input RGB image
on the top left. The convolution operation uses a filter that extends
through all the color channels. This filter performs the convolution
across the height and width of the image, while simultaneously
aggregating information from all the color channels. By combining all
color channels, this convolution effectively integrates the spatial and
color information, leading to a more comprehensive analysis of the
image’s features.
Using Convolutions in a Neural Network
Now that you’ve had a glimpse of the power of convolutions in
analyzing signals and images, you’re ready to integrate them within
neural networks.
Convolutional layers consist of neural network layers containing
multiple convolutions. They enable the construction of sophisticated
neural network architectures to analyze signals and images. The
versatility of convolutions in signal and image processing stems from
their ability to perform varied operations with different filters, which is
especially crucial in deep learning.
Filters are typically learned during training to achieve specific
objectives, allowing for the extraction of significant features from signals

--- Strana 176 ---
and images. This adaptability through training explains why
convolutions are a fundamental element in neural network
architectures.
Implementing Neural Networks in PyTorch
In this section, you’ll use PyTorch to explore some of the basic building
blocks of neural network architectures. You’ll see convolutional,
activation, pooling, downsampling, and dense layers, as well as how to
sequentially stack them to create a deep neural network.
Start by creating a sample image representing a checkerboard, using
the code in Listing 3-3.
   import torch
   H, W, S = 12, 16, 4  # Height, width, square size
➊ image = torch.zeros(1, H, W)
   for idx in range(0, H, S):
       for idy in range(0, W, S):
        ➋ image[0, idx:idx + S, idy:idy + S] = (-1) ** (idx // S + idy // S)
Listing 3-3: Creating a sample image
The image is stored in the image PyTorch tensor (a multidimensional
array used by PyTorch to store and process data efficiently for deep
learning models, which allows for optimized computations on GPUs).
This tensor has three dimensions, corresponding to the number of color
channels (1), the height (H), and the width (W) ➊. The image is a
checkerboard with squares of size S = 4 taking as values either 1 or –1 ➋.
This image has a single color channel, so you can think of it as
grayscale.
You can now write the plot_image() function shown in Listing 3-4.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
def plot_image(image):
    """Render an image."""

--- Strana 177 ---
 ➊ plt.imshow(image, cmap="gray", aspect="equal", vmin=-2, vmax=2, 
               extent=[0, image.shape[1], 0, image.shape[0]])
    plt.colorbar()
 ➋ plt.xticks(range(0, image.shape[1] + 1))
 ➌ plt.yticks(range(0, image.shape[0] + 1))
 ➍ plt.grid(color="red", linewidth=1)
    plt.show()
Listing 3-4: The function to render an image
This function renders the image via the Matplotlib imshow() function
with a grid highlighting its pixels ➍, ensuring that the grid lines are at
the beginning and end of each pixel ➋ ➌. Even though the values of the
image range from –1 to 1, the color bar limits are set from –2 to 2 ➊ to
make this image directly comparable with the subsequent ones.
Now, use this function to plot the image you’ve created:
plot_image(image.squeeze())
When passing image to the plot_image() function, you need to eliminate
the extra dimensions that are of size 1, which is done using the squeeze()
method.
Figure 3-4 shows the rendered image.

--- Strana 178 ---
Figure 3-4: The sample image representing a checkerboard
The image is a checkerboard with three rows and four columns of
4×4-pixel squares with values –1 (dark gray) and 1 (light gray). In total,
the image has 12×16 pixels (height by width).
Defining Convolutional Layers
You’ll now define a convolutional layer, set the values of its filters, and
apply it to the checkerboard image to see how it transforms, as shown in
Listing 3-5.
   import torch.nn as nn
   conv = nn.Conv2d(in_channels=1, out_channels=2, kernel_size=(1, 3), 
bias=False)
➊ filters = torch.zeros(conv.out_channels, conv.in_channels, *conv.kernel_size)
➋ filters[0, 0, :, :] = torch.tensor([[1, 1, 1],]) / 3
➌ filters[1, 0, :, :] = torch.tensor([[-1, 0, 1],])
➍ conv.weight = nn.Parameter(filters)

--- Strana 179 ---
➎ features_conv = conv(image.unsqueeze(0))
Listing 3-5: Implementing a convolutional layer in PyTorch
This code creates the conv convolutional layer with a single color
channel (in_channels=1) and two filters (out_channels=2) with size kernel_size=
(1, 3) (the terms kernel and filter are frequently used interchangeably),
while setting the bias to 0 (bias=False). Similar to the bias in neurons
discussed in Chapters 1 and 2, the bias in convolutional layers adds a
constant offset to the output. In the rest of this section, you’ll set the
bias to 0 to focus on the convolutional operation.
By default, the filters of a convolutional layer are initialized to
random numbers. In Listing 3-5, however, you set the filters by
overwriting the randomly initialized ones. You first initialize a filters
tensor with 0s, conforming to the shape required by the convolution
layer ➊. The first index in filters corresponds to the filter number, and
the second index to the channel number. Then you modify this tensor
to define two specific kernels: the first, which is an averaging filter ➋,
and the second, which is an edge-detection filter ➌. Finally, you set
these custom kernels as weights in the convolutional layer ➍.
You can think of the output, features_conv, as a new image with two
pseudo-color channels created by the kernels. Importantly, you need to
batch the input image before passing it through the convolutional layer,
which is a requirement of PyTorch (and most other deep learning
frameworks). This involves adding an additional dimension to represent
the batch size by using the unsqueeze(0) method ➎. To batch the image, in
this case, you transform image, which is a 3D tensor of shape [1, 12, 16]
(channels, height, width), into a 4D tensor of shape [1, 1, 12, 16], where
the first dimension represents the batch.
To visualize the output feature maps, implement the plot_channels()
function in Listing 3-6.
def plot_channels(channels, figsize=(15, 5)):
    """Render multiple channels."""
    fig, axs = plt.subplots(1, channels.shape[0], figsize=figsize)

--- Strana 180 ---
    for channel, ax, i in zip(channels, axs, range(channels.shape[0])):
     ➊ im = ax.imshow(channel, cmap="gray", aspect="equal", vmin=-2, vmax=2, 
                       extent=[0, channel.shape[1], 0, channel.shape[0]])
        plt.colorbar(im)
        ax.set_title(f"Channel {i}", fontsize=24)
        ax.set_xticks(range(0, channel.shape[1] + 1))
        ax.set_yticks(range(0, channel.shape[0] + 1))
     ➋ ax.grid(color="red", linewidth=1)
    plt.show()
Listing 3-6: The function to render the multiple channels of an image
For each channel of an image, this function renders the channel ➊
and overlays a grid to highlight the pixels ➋.
Now you can use this function to render the feature maps obtained
by the convolution:
plot_channels(features_conv[0].detach())
When passing the feature maps to the plot_channels() function, you need
to first extract the first (and, in this case, only) image of the batch and
then use the detach() method to tell PyTorch that you don’t require
gradient calculation for the image (typically required for the
backpropagation).
You should get Figure 3-5.
Figure 3-5: The feature maps obtained by convolutions with the filters

--- Strana 181 ---
You can see two feature maps (channels), corresponding to the two
filters in the convolutional layer you’ve defined in Listing 3-5. The first
channel (Channel 0) corresponds to the feature map obtained by
applying the averaging filter, which acts only along the horizontal
direction. By averaging the intensity values, this filter produces a
smoothing effect, reducing the distinction between adjacent horizontal
regions.
The second channel (Channel 1) represents the feature map
produced by the edge-detection filter. This filter highlights the
horizontal transitions in intensity by accentuating edges perpendicular
to the horizontal axis, as shown by the pronounced contrast between
adjacent areas in the horizontal direction.
EXERCISES
3-8:  Revisit the example in this section, using various filters. For
example, use a vertical edge detector and a 3×3 Gaussian filter.
3-9:  Until now, you’ve used grayscale images, but usually images
have multiple colors. Revisit the example in this section, using an
RGB image as input.
Adding ReLU Activation
You can now add a ReLU activation to the output of the convolutional
layer:
relu = nn.ReLU()
model_relu = nn.Sequential(conv, relu)
features_relu = model_relu(image.unsqueeze(0))
plot_channels(features_relu[0].detach())

--- Strana 182 ---
After creating a ReLU activation (relu), this code combines the
convolutional layer and the ReLU activation via nn.Sequential(). The
resulting output is rendered in Figure 3-6.
Figure 3-6: The image after convolution and ReLU activation
Comparing Figure 3-6 with Figure 3-5, you can see that all negative
values have been converted to 0s.
EXERCISE
3-10:  While the ReLU activation function is commonly used for
its simplicity and efficiency, there are several other options that
can impact the network’s performance, as you saw in Chapter 1.
For instance, the sigmoid function, which maps input values to a
range of 0 to 1, can be useful for binary classification tasks.
Another option is the hyperbolic tangent function, which scales
the inputs to a range of –1 to 1, offering a centered scaling. A third
option is the leaky ReLU, a variation of ReLU that allows a small
gradient when the unit is inactive and can help with the dying
ReLU problem but can hinder training if many of the layer’s outputs
are negative and converted to 0. Modify the activation function in

--- Strana 183 ---
the given code to use these alternatives and observe how they
affect the output feature maps.
Adding Pooling Layers
Pooling layers (also known as downsampling layers) reduce the spatial
resolution of feature maps, downsampling the data. For example, you
might add a pooling layer to the convolutional layer to reduce the
computational load by decreasing the number of parameters and
operations needed in the network. Furthermore, this approach helps in
detecting larger-scale features by summarizing the presence of features
in larger patches of the input image. You can implement a pooling layer
with the following code:
pool = nn.MaxPool2d(kernel_size=(2, 1), stride=(2, 1))
model_pool = nn.Sequential(conv, pool)
features_pool = model_pool(image.unsqueeze(0))
plot_channels(features_pool[0].detach())
This code creates a max pooling layer (pool) with kernel_size=(2, 1),
which means it extracts the maximum value over a window of 2 pixels in
the vertical direction (height) and 1 pixel in the horizontal direction
(width). The maximum extraction is executed with stride=(2, 1), which
means that the window sequentially slides over the image with two steps
in the vertical direction and one step in the horizontal one, effectively
reducing the height by half and keeping the width the same. The code
then combines the convolutional layer with the max pooling layer and
plots the resulting feature maps, which are shown in Figure 3-7.

--- Strana 184 ---
Figure 3-7: The image after convolution and pooling
By comparing Figure 3-7 with Figure 3-5, you’ll notice that the
pooled feature maps have half the height of those at the output of the
convolutional layer. This reduction in dimensionality lessens the
computational burden and helps in summarizing the information
contained in larger patterns in the image.
Apart from max pooling, which selects the maximum value from the
feature map within the pooling window, many alternative operations can
be used by a pooling layer to downsample the feature maps. For
example, average pooling computes the average value within the window,
effectively smoothing the features; L2-norm pooling calculates the square
root of the sum of the squares of the pixel values, preserving the
magnitude of large features; and min pooling selects the minimum value,
useful when the absence of features is critical, as in background
suppression or noise reduction.
EXERCISE
3-11:  Revisit the given code to implement these alternative
pooling operations; you can also change the kernel_size and stride.
Observe how the output feature maps change.

--- Strana 185 ---
Using Upsampling Layers
Upsampling layers (also known as unpooling layers) perform the inverse
operation of pooling layers, increasing the spatial resolution of the
feature maps. Understanding and utilizing both pooling and upsampling
layers is crucial, as they are complementary techniques for manipulating
feature maps: While pooling layers reduce dimensionality to improve
computational efficiency and feature-detection robustness, upsampling
layers restore or enhance the resolution, which is especially important
for tasks like image segmentation or generating high-resolution outputs
from lower-resolution inputs. You can implement an upsampling layer
with the following code:
upsample = nn.Upsample(scale_factor=(2, 1))
model_upsample = nn.Sequential(conv, upsample)
features_upsample = model_upsample(image.unsqueeze(0))
plot_channels(features_upsample[0].detach(), figsize=(15, 8))
This code defines an upsampling layer (upsample) with scale_factor=(2, 1),
which replaces each pixel by two vertically stacked pixels with the same
value, thereby doubling the height of the feature maps while
maintaining their original width. This upsampling layer is then
combined with the convolutional layer and used to generate the output
feature maps, which are rendered in Figure 3-8.

--- Strana 186 ---
Figure 3-8: The image after convolution and upsampling
By comparing Figure 3-8 with Figure 3-5, you can verify that the
upsampling has doubled the height of the feature maps, repeating each
pixel twice along the vertical direction.
The upsampling method you’ve seen in this section uses a
straightforward duplication approach that replicates pixels to enlarge
the feature map. However, alternative upsampling techniques can offer
different benefits. For example, nearest neighbor upsampling replicates the
nearest pixel, potentially preserving sharper edges; bilinear upsampling
uses linear interpolation, leading to smoother transitions; and trilinear
upsampling, suitable for 3D data, interpolates in three dimensions.
EXERCISES
3-12:  Experiment with different upsampling methods by
modifying the upsampling layer in the given code. Observe and

--- Strana 187 ---
compare the effects on the spatial resolution and the overall
appearance of the upsampled feature maps.
3-13:  Perform subsequent pooling and upsampling operations
on an image. What do you observe? How does the result depend
on the order of the two operations? Try different combinations of
pooling and upsampling layers.
Transforming Images
Now that you’ve learned about convolutional, activation, pooling, and
up-sampling layers, you can combine them to construct complex
convolutional architectures that transform images. This means applying
operations to modify or analyze input images, crucial for tasks like
image classification or object detection. The images being transformed
will vary based on the application, such as facial recognition or medical
imaging.
Listing 3-7 shows an example of a convolutional neural network for
transforming images.
   model_trans = nn.Sequential(
       nn.Conv2d(in_channels=1, out_channels=16, kernel_size=3),
       nn.ReLU(),
       nn.MaxPool2d(kernel_size=2, stride=2),
       nn.Conv2d(in_channels=16, out_channels=32, kernel_size=3),
       nn.ReLU(),
       nn.MaxPool2d(kernel_size=2, stride=2),
   )
➊ image_trans = model_trans(image.unsqueeze(0))[0]
Listing 3-7: Implementing a convolutional neural network to transform an image
This code defines a neural network model named model_trans, which
consists of two convolutional layers, each followed by a ReLU activation
function and a max pooling layer.
The first convolutional layer has an input channel size of 1 (suitable
for grayscale images) and an output channel size of 16, with a kernel size
of 3 in both directions (kernel_size=3 is equivalent to kernel_size=(3, 3)).

--- Strana 188 ---
This is immediately followed by a ReLU activation function, which
introduces nonlinearity in the network. Next, a max pooling layer with a
kernel size of 2 and a stride of 2 in both directions reduces the spatial
dimensions of the feature maps.
A similar sequence of convolutional layer, ReLU activation, and max
pooling is repeated, with the second convolutional layer further
increasing the number of output channels to 32.
When you use this network to process the usual input image, image,
the result is a transformed image, image_trans ➊. Note that the first (and
only, in this case) image is extracted from the batch. You can check the
dimensions of the input and output with
print(f"Input image with {image.shape}")
print(f"Output image with {image_trans.shape}")
which prints:
Input image with torch.Size([1, 12, 16])
Output image with torch.Size([32, 1, 2])
The first indices indicate that the input image has one single color
channel (it’s grayscale), while the output image has 32 features. The
second and third indices indicate that the input image has 12×16 pixels,
but each of the output feature maps has only 1×2 pixels. Consequently,
although the image has diminished in spatial resolution, it has
simultaneously gained in the richness of its feature representation.
EXERCISES
3-14:  Use Gaussian filters to get a smoothed, downsampled
version of an image. Apply this to the MNIST digits.
3-15:  Implement a code that enlarges an image through a series
of up-sampling and convolutional layers. Use Gaussian filters to
smooth the upsampled image. Apply this to the MNIST digits.

--- Strana 189 ---
3-16:  Combine the reduction and enlargement of an image into
a telescopic convolutional architecture. Apply this to the MNIST
digits.
Using Dense Layers to Classify Images
You can also use convolutional neural networks for the classification of
images. In this case, you typically need to flatten the feature maps
obtained from the convolutional layers (known as the convolutional base)
and couple them with a dense output layer (a dense top). For example,
you can do this by expanding Listing 3-7 as shown in Listing 3-8.
model_clas = nn.Sequential(
    --snip--
    nn.MaxPool2d(kernel_size=2, stride=2),
    nn.Flatten(),
    nn.Linear(in_features=32 * 1 * 2, out_features=2),
    nn.Softmax(dim=1),
)
classification = model_clas(image.unsqueeze(0))
Listing 3-8: Implementing a convolutional neural network with a dense top to classify images
(by modifying Listing 3-7)
This code adds a dense top to the convolutional base, transitioning
from feature extraction to classification. The addition of a flattening
layer reshapes the multidimensional output of the convolutional layers
into a 1D tensor, which is a necessary step before feeding the data into
fully connected layers. The flattening is followed by a dense layer with
two output features, corresponding to a binary classification. Finally, a
softmax activation is applied, obtaining some values that are often
interpreted as the relative likelihoods of the two possible classes, though
they aren’t probabilities in the traditional statistical sense.
If you use this network to process the usual image, image, it results in
a classification vector, classification. You can check the dimensions of the
input and output with

--- Strana 190 ---
print(f"Input image with {image.shape}")
print(f"Output classification with {classification.shape}")
which prints:
Input image with torch.Size([1, 12, 16])
Output classification with torch.Size([2])
The output classification has two values corresponding to two classes.
NOTE
Code Example 3-1, “Implementing Neural Networks in PyTorch,” is
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch03_CNN folder and then ec03_1_cnn. The
cnn.ipynb notebook provides a set of code examples to implement
neural networks with PyTorch.
EXERCISE
3-17:  Use Prewitt or Sobel filters in the convolutional layers to
construct a classifier capable of distinguishing between images
predominantly featuring horizontal or vertical lines.
Project 3A: Classifying Malaria-Infected Blood
Smears
Malaria is a blood disease transmitted by mosquitoes. It’s commonly
diagnosed by visually examining blood smears. The use of neural
networks to automatically screen samples can help improve response
time, decrease the workload of experts, and ensure reproducible results.

--- Strana 191 ---
In this project, you’ll train neural networks to identify malaria-infected
blood cells.
Loading the Malaria Dataset
The malaria dataset was published by Sivaramakrishnan Rajaraman and
coworkers in 2018 in PeerJ (volume 6, article number e4568) and is
publicly available. The dataset consists of 27,558 cell images with equal
instances of uninfected and parasitized cells. You can download and
extract the images with Listing 3-9.
import os
from torchvision.datasets.utils import _extract_zip, download_url
dataset_path = os.path.join(".", "blood_smears_dataset")
if not os.path.exists(dataset_path):
    url = "https://data.lhncbc.nlm.nih.gov/public/Malaria/cell_images.zip"
    download_url(url, ".")
    _extract_zip("cell_images.zip", dataset_path, None)
    os.remove("cell_images.zip")
Listing 3-9: Downloading and extracting the malaria dataset
This code downloads the zipped images, unzips them in the
blood_smears_dataset folder, and finally removes the ZIP file.
Visualizing Blood Smears
You can use the ImageFolder class to load the images into a dataset, as
shown in Listing 3-10.
   from torchvision.datasets import ImageFolder
➊ base_dir = os.path.join(dataset_path, "cell_images")
   dataset = ImageFolder(base_dir)
Listing 3-10: Loading the images into a dataset
This code populates the dataset with images. The base directory ➊
comprises two distinct folders, Parasitized and Uninfected, enabling you

--- Strana 192 ---
to categorize images under these specific labels. Consequently, the
images are classified into two separate classes: parasitized cell images,
assigned the value 0, and uninfected cell images, assigned the value 1, in
alignment with their alphabetical ordering.
You can now have a look at a few images to gauge the best strategy
to analyze the data. Write the plot_blood_smears() function shown in
Listing 3-11.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np
def plot_blood_smears(dataset, parasitized):
    """Plot blood smears."""
    fig, axs = plt.subplots(3, 6, figsize=(16, 8))
    for ax in axs.ravel():
        image, label = dataset[np.random.randint(0, len(dataset))]
        ax.imshow(image)
        ax.set_title(f"Parasitized ({label})" if label == parasitized 
                     else f"Uninfected ({label})", fontsize=16)
    plt.tight_layout()
    plt.show()
Listing 3-11: The function to plot blood smears
Then use this function to plot examples of the images:
plot_blood_smears(dataset, parasitized=0)
This generates an image similar to that shown in Figure 3-9. The
parasitized parameter indicates that the infected cells are labeled with 0s.

--- Strana 193 ---
Figure 3-9: Samples of uninfected and parasitized blood-smear images
Notice that the infected cells present some spots due to the presence
of the malaria plasmodium, which permits you to identify them. Also
notice that the number of pixels in the images (on the order of tens of
thousands of pixels) is quite large, so you’ll likely need to downsample
them significantly in order to be able to process them with a relatively
small neural network.
Furthermore, the dimensions of the images aren’t consistent; this is
a problem if you want to use dense layers as part of the neural network
architecture (either in a dense neural network or as the dense top of a
convolutional architecture), because they require inputs of fixed length.
Finally, in the medical literature, typically 1s signify the presence of a
condition and 0s its absence, which is the opposite of the ground truth
used in the dataset, where malaria-infected cells are denoted as 0s and
uninfected cells with 1s. You’ll take care of all these issues in the next
section.
Transforming Images and Their Ground Truth
To take care of the identified issues, you’ll need to transform the images
and their labels. This can be done when creating dataset.

--- Strana 194 ---
First, define a transformation to resize and normalize the images, as
shown in Listing 3-12.
from torchvision.transforms import Compose, Resize, ToTensor
image_trans = Compose([Resize((28, 28)), ToTensor()])
Listing 3-12: Transformation for the images
This transformation will resize the image to 28×28 pixels and
convert it to a PyTorch tensor (note that ToTensor() also normalizes the
image values from 0 to 1).
You then need to create a transformation for the labels, as shown in
Listing 3-13.
import torch
def label_trans(label):
    """Transform label."""
 ➊ return torch.tensor(1 - label).float().unsqueeze(-1)
Listing 3-13: Transformation for the labels
This defines a transformation to make the target label equal to 0 for
the uninfected cells and to 1 for the parasitized ones ➊. Next, the code
converts the label into a PyTorch tensor with tensor() and into a
floating-point type with float(), enhancing the label’s compatibility with
PyTorch computational requirements. Finally, the code adds a new
dimension to the tensor by using unsqueeze(-1), preparing it for batch
processing in neural network models.
Next, update Listing 3-10 to make these transformations, as shown
in Listing 3-14.
--snip--
dataset = ImageFolder(base_dir, transform=image_trans,
                      target_transform=label_trans)
Listing 3-14: Loading the images into a dataset while transforming images and labels (by
modifying Listing 3-10)

--- Strana 195 ---
This code assigns image_trans (Listing 3-12) to transform the input
images and label_trans (Listing 3-13) to transform the labels.
Now you’re ready to plot the transformed images and relative labels.
You can’t use the plot_blood_smears() function directly just yet because the
images returned by dataset are PyTorch tensors and not NumPy arrays,
but to address this, you can update the function as shown in Listing 3-
15.
def plot_blood_smears(dataset, parasitized):
    """Plot blood smears for NumPy arrays and PyTorch tensors."""
    --snip--
    for ax in axs.ravel():
        image, label = dataset[randint(0, len(dataset))]
        if isinstance(image, torch.Tensor):
            image, label = image.numpy().transpose(1, 2, 0), label.numpy()
        ax.imshow(image)
        --snip--
Listing 3-15: The function to plot blood smears as either NumPy arrays or PyTorch tensors
(by modifying Listing 3-11)
This revised function checks whether the image is a PyTorch tensor.
If so, the function transforms the tensor into a NumPy array and
transposes its dimensions so that the colors are the third dimension, as
is normal for RGB images, using the transpose(1, 2, 0) method. The
updated function also transforms the label from a PyTorch tensor to a
NumPy array with the numpy() method. You can now use this function to
plot the transformed images:
plot_blood_smears(dataset, parasitized=1)
The result should be similar to Figure 3-10. The parasitized parameter
now indicates that the infected cells are those labeled with 1.

--- Strana 196 ---
Figure 3-10: Samples of uninfected and parasitized blood-smear images after
transformation
Now all the images are the same size, and the parasitized cell images
are labeled as 1s and the uninfected cell images as 0s. Furthermore, you
can see that the labels are NumPy arrays.
Splitting the Dataset and Defining the Data Loaders
You can now split the dataset into training (80 percent) and test (20
percent) sets with Listing 3-16.
train, test = torch.utils.data.random_split(dataset, [0.8, 0.2])
Listing 3-16: Splitting the dataset into training and test sets
Finally, define the data loaders for both sets, using Listing 3-17.
train_loader = torch.utils.data.DataLoader(train, batch_size=32, shuffle=True)
test_loader = torch.utils.data.DataLoader(test, batch_size=256, shuffle=False)
Listing 3-17: Defining the data loaders
This code defines the two data loaders. The batch size for the
training data loader is set to 32, while a larger batch size of 256 is used

--- Strana 197 ---
for the test set. Another difference between the data loaders stems from
the fact that it’s best to shuffle the training data to improve training
performance, while this isn’t necessary for the test data.
Classifying with Dense Neural Networks
You can now implement a dense neural network to detect the presence
of malaria infection, using Listing 3-18.
import deeplay as dl
dnn = dl.MultiLayerPerceptron(
    in_features=28 * 28 * 3, hidden_features=[128, 128], out_features=1, 
    out_activation=torch.nn.Sigmoid,
)
Listing 3-18: Implementing the dense neural network
This code implements a dense neural network with one input for
each pixel and color channel of the input image, two layers with 128
neurons, and a single sigmoidal output. You can use print(dnn) to check
its detailed architecture.
Next, compile this neural network, assigning it a loss and an
optimizer, as shown in Listing 3-19.
dnn_classifier = dl.BinaryClassifier(
    model=dnn, optimizer=dl.RMSprop(lr=0.001),
).create()
Listing 3-19: Compiling the dense neural network
This code compiles the dense neural network as a binary classifier,
using RMSprop as an optimizer. You can use print(dnn_classifier) to print out
the compiled network. This printout also contains information about
the loss function and the tracked metrics.
The default loss of dl.BinaryClassifier is a binary cross-entropy loss,
which is particularly well suited for scenarios where the output can be
interpreted as a probability (that is, assuming values from 0 to 1 that
sum up to 1). Its mathematical formulation is LBCE = – [y log(p) + (1 – y)

--- Strana 198 ---
log(1 – p)], where y is the true label (0 or 1), and p is the predicted
probability of the class with label 1. This loss function penalizes the
predictions based on the divergence between the predicted probability
and the actual label.
Furthermore, dl.BinaryClassifier uses binary accuracy as its default
metric. This metric calculates the proportion of correct predictions by
summing the true positives (TP) and true negatives (TN) and dividing
by the total number of predictions. The formula is
Accuracy =
TP+TN
TP+TN+FP+FN
where FP indicates false positives, and FN indicates false negatives.
Training
Next, train the dense neural network:
dnn_trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=5, accelerator="auto")
dnn_trainer.fit(dnn_classifier, train_loader)
This code creates a trainer for the dense neural network with five
epochs. This trainer uses error backpropagation to train the network via
the fit() method.
Testing
Now let’s test the trained dense neural network:
dnn_trainer.test(dnn_classifier, test_loader)
This code prints the final binary cross-entropy loss, which should be
around 0.60, and the final binary accuracy, which should be around 0.68.
This performance is better than chance (which would result in a binary
accuracy of 0.50), but not very impressive. You’ll greatly improve the
performance in the next sections by using convolutional architectures.
Plotting the ROC Curve

--- Strana 199 ---
The ROC curve is a way to evaluate the performance of a binary
classifier. A binary classifier outputs a continuous value from 0 to 1,
which is then converted to a binary classification by setting a threshold
(or cutoff ). This allows you to tune the behavior of the classifier. For
example, it may be more acceptable on medical grounds to incorrectly
classify an uninfected cell as parasitized than the other way around—in
this case, it would be desirable to choose a lower threshold.
The ROC curve shows the relationship between the true-positive rate
(TPR) and the false-positive rate (FPR) as the threshold is changed. Also
known as sensitivity, or recall, the TPR is the proportion of positive
samples that are correctly classified. The FPR, or fallout, is the
proportion of negative samples that are incorrectly classified. The ROC
curve is constructed by plotting TPR against FPR as the threshold is
changed from 0 to 1. The AUROC, or area under the ROC curve, is a
measure of classifier quality, with 0.5 being equivalent to a random
classifier and 1 being a perfect classifier.
NOTE
In case you’re curious, the receiver operating characteristic (ROC)
was developed during World War II for the analysis of radar signals.
It was initially used to distinguish between signals (such as enemy
aircraft) and noise (like birds or clouds) in radar technology. The ROC
curve was later adopted in various fields, particularly in medicine and
machine learning, to evaluate the performance of diagnostic tests and
classification models by plotting the TPR against the FPR at various
threshold settings.
You can compute and plot the ROC curve with the plot_roc()
function shown in Listing 3-20.
import torchmetrics as tm
def plot_roc(classifier, loader):
    """Plot ROC curve."""
 ➊ roc = tm.ROC(task="binary")

--- Strana 200 ---
    for image, label in loader:
     ➋ roc.update(classifier(image), label.long())
 ➌ fig, ax = roc.plot(score=True)
    ax.grid(False)
    ax.axis("square")
    ax.set_xlim(0, 1)
    ax.set_ylim(0, 1)
    ax.legend(loc="center right")
    plt.show()
Listing 3-20: The function to calculate and plot the ROC curve of a classifier
This function uses the ROC class from TorchMetrics ➊ to calculate
and plot the ROC curve. The labels are converted to the long format ➋,
and the plot will include the AUROC value ➌.
You can then use this function to plot the ROC curve for the trained
dnn_classifier:
plot_roc(dnn_classifier, test_loader)
Figure 3-11 shows the result.

--- Strana 201 ---
Figure 3-11: The ROC curve for the classifier, using the dense neural network
You should get an AUROC of around 0.75, indicating a decent but
not exceptional ability to distinguish between the uninfected and
parasitized cells. For example, Figure 3-11 shows that you can correctly
identify 90 percent of parasitized cells, as long as you are willing to
accept mislabeling about 60 percent of the uninfected ones as false
positives—probably not as good as you’d like for medical tests.
Classifying with Convolutional Neural Networks
You can improve the performance of the classifier by using a
convolutional neural network with a dense top, as implemented by
Listing 3-21.
   conv_base = dl.ConvolutionalNeuralNetwork(
       in_channels=3, hidden_channels=[16, 16, 32], out_channels=32,
   )

--- Strana 202 ---
➊ conv_base.blocks[2].pool.configure(torch.nn.MaxPool2d, kernel_size=2)
   connector = dl.Layer(torch.nn.AdaptiveAvgPool2d, output_size=1)
   dense_top = dl.MultiLayerPerceptron(
       in_features=32, hidden_features=[], out_features=1, 
       out_activation=torch.nn.Sigmoid,
   )
   cnn = dl.Sequential(conv_base, connector, dense_top)
Listing 3-21: Implementing a convolutional neural network with a dense top
This code creates a convolutional base (conv_base) with four layers of
16, 16, 32, and 32 filters. A max pooling layer is added between the
second and third layers, with a kernel size of 2×2 (and implicitly a stride
of 2 in both directions) ➊. The connector layer is created by using an
average pooling layer that downsamples each one of the output filters to
a single number. The code creates a dense top (dense_top) with 32
neurons and a single sigmoidal output. Finally, all these components are
combined into a single convolutional neural network with a dense top
(cnn).
You can visualize the overall architecture via print(cnn). In this
architecture, the convolutional layers extract important features from
the images, which can then be processed more effectively by the dense
top.
Next, compile this neural network with Listing 3-22.
cnn_classifier = dl.BinaryClassifier(
    model=cnn, optimizer=dl.RMSprop(lr=0.001),
).create()
Listing 3-22: Compiling the convolutional neural network with a dense top
You are now ready to train your dense neural network.
Training
Train the convolutional neural network:

--- Strana 203 ---
cnn_trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=5, accelerator="auto")
cnn_trainer.fit(cnn_classifier, train_loader)
This code creates a trainer for the convolutional neural network, then
calls the fit() method of the trainer to train the network.
Testing
Let’s test the convolutional neural network:
cnn_trainer.test(cnn_classifier, test_loader)
This code prints the final binary cross-entropy loss, which should be
around 0.12, and the final binary accuracy, which should be around 0.95.
These results are much better than those with the dense neural network
and, in absolute terms, are pretty good values for a binary classifier.
Plotting the ROC Curve
Now compute and display the ROC curve of this improved classifier:
plot_roc(cnn_classifier, test_loader)
You should see a ROC curve similar to that shown in Figure 3-12.

--- Strana 204 ---
Figure 3-12: The ROC curve for the classifier, using the convolutional neural network with a
dense top
This curve has an AUROC of about 0.99, which means that this is
an excellent model capable of separating with high confidence the
positive and negative classes.
Checking the Values of the Filters
Now that you’ve successfully trained a convolutional neural network to
identify the malaria-infected cells, you might be curious to check the
values of the filters that have been optimized in the training process.
You can extract a filter as follows:
filter = cnn_classifier.model[0].blocks[0].layer.weight[15]
This accesses the model’s first module, selects the initial block
corresponding to the first convolutional layer, and selects the 16th filter.

--- Strana 205 ---
Then you can use print(filter) to print the filter values:
tensor([[[ 0.1500, -0.2196,  0.0505],
         [-0.0819,  0.0980,  0.0494],
         [ 0.0911, -0.0277, -0.1928]],
        [[-0.2429,  0.0118, -0.1666],
         [-0.0016,  0.2690,  0.1233],
         [ 0.1608,  0.2330, -0.1441]],
        [[-0.1029,  0.0322, -0.0945],
         [-0.0732,  0.1109,  0.1606],
         [-0.0897,  0.0135, -0.2524]]], grad_fn=<SelectBackward0>)
This is a PyTorch tensor with dimensions 3 (number of color channels)
by 3 (filter height) by 3 (filter width), just as you saw in Figure 3-3. Note
that this tensor isn’t detached from the computational graph, as
indicated by grad_fn=<SelectBackward0>.
Printing out the values of the filters alone may not provide much
clarity, as interpreting their specific functions can be challenging.
Instead, it’s more insightful to observe the activations associated with
each filter when an image is processed through the neural network,
which you’ll do next.
Visualizing Activations of Convolutional Layers
Start by selecting an image from the dataset, using Listing 3-23.
from PIL import Image
im_ind = 0
image_filename = dataset.samples[im_ind][0]
image_hr = Image.open(image_filename)
image = image_trans(image_hr)
Listing 3-23: Loading an image from the dataset
This code retrieves the original image with index im_ind and applies
the same transformation used in preprocessing (corresponding to

--- Strana 206 ---
Listing 3-12).
You can then verify whether this is an image of parasitized cells with
print(label_trans(dataset.targets[im_ind])), which will print tensor([0.]) if the
cells in the image are uninfected, or tensor([1.]) if they are parasitized.
To gain insights into the inner workings of a neural network, you
can attach hooks to a specific layer of the network. Hooks are functions
that can be set to execute at certain points during the forward or
backward pass of the network. For example, you can use Listing 3-24 to
access the activations in the forward pass of the neural network.
   def hook_func(layer, input, output):
       """Hook for activations."""
    ➊ activations = output.detach().clone()
    ➋ print(f"Activations size: {activations.size()}")
   layer = cnn_classifier.model[0].blocks[0].layer
➌ layer.register_forward_hook(hook_func)
➍ pred = cnn_classifier.model(image.unsqueeze(0))
Listing 3-24: Adding a hook to access the activations in the forward pass
This code defines the hook_func() function. Such a hook function
takes three parameters: the layer itself, the input to the layer, and the
output from the layer. The code then selects a layer to which it registers
the hook ➌. When the network processes data, the hook is triggered
during the forward pass ➍. This allows you to execute a custom
function at that point, enabling you to observe or manipulate the
activations. In this case, the hook will first detach from the current
computation graph and clone the activations ➊ and then print the
activation size ➋.
NOTE
Beyond visualizing activations, hooks can help significantly in
debugging and analyzing neural networks.

--- Strana 207 ---
After utilizing the hook for its intended purpose, it’s good practice to
remove it from the network. This step is important because hooks, if left
attached, can continue to execute on every forward pass, potentially
leading to unintended side effects or performance issues. You can do this
by modifying Listing 3-24 as shown in Listing 3-25.
--snip--
handle_hook = layer.register_forward_hook(hook_func)
try:
    pred = cnn_classifier.model(image.unsqueeze(0))
except Exception as e:
    print(f"An error occurred during model prediction: {e}")
finally:
 ➊ handle_hook.remove()
Listing 3-25: Adding and removing a hook in the forward pass (by modifying Listing 3-24)
This code saves the handle_hook reference to the hook handle returned
when the code originally registers the hook. After the forward pass, the
code uses this handle to remove the hook ➊. Furthermore, the
evaluation of the neural network is enclosed inside a try-except
construct to ensure that the hook removal is always executed, even if
some errors occur during evaluation.
Next, write the plot_activations() function to visualize the activations,
as shown in Listing 3-26.
def plot_activations(activations, cols=8):
    """Visualize activations."""
    rows = -(activations.shape[0] // -cols)
    fig, axs = plt.subplots(rows, cols, figsize=(2 * cols, 2 * rows))
    for i, ax in enumerate(axs.ravel()):
        ax.axis("off")
        if i < activations.shape[0]:
            ax.imshow(activations[i].numpy())

--- Strana 208 ---
            ax.set_title(i, fontsize=16)
    plt.show()
Listing 3-26: The function to visualize the activations
You can now use this function within the hook, updating Listing 3-
25 as shown in Listing 3-27.
def hook_func(layer, input, output):
    """Hook to plot activations."""
    activations = output.detach().clone()
    plot_activations(activations[0])
--snip--
Listing 3-27: Visualizing activations in the hook in the forward pass (by modifying Listing 3-
25)
When passing activations to the plot_activations() function, this code
uses [0] to select the first element of the activations tensor, representing
the activations for the first image in the batch processed by the neural
network.
Finally, make the last modification to Listing 3-27 to plot the
activations of all convolutional layers, as shown in Listing 3-28.
--snip--
for block in cnn_classifier.model[0].blocks:
    layer = block.layer
    --snip--
Listing 3-28: Plotting the activations of all convolutional layers (by modifying Listing 3-27)
This final version of the code uses a for loop to plot the activations
for each convolutional layer.
Figure 3-13 shows the activations of the first layer.

--- Strana 209 ---
Figure 3-13: Activations of the first convolutional layer
These activations capture basic features, such as edges and simple
textures, as is typical for the activations of the first layer of a
convolutional neural network.
Figure 3-14 shows the fourth, and final, convolutional layer’s
activations.
Figure 3-14: Activations of the fourth (last) convolutional layer
This last layer typically captures high-level content, representing full
objects or specific parts that are relevant for making predictions. In fact,
you can clearly see that the activations highlight the presence of a
malaria plasmodium within the image, which then permits the dense top

--- Strana 210 ---
to classify the imaged cells as parasitized. You can also see that all the
activations appear quite similar, suggesting that the convolutional
network could likely be reduced in size—by decreasing the number of
layers and features—without sacrificing performance.
By examining the progression from simple to complex feature
detection across the layers, you gain valuable insights into how neural
networks build a hierarchy of features, starting from basic edges and
textures to more-complex patterns. By recognizing which types of
features are extracted at each layer, you can make more-informed
decisions about network architecture, such as the number of layers or
their types, to better capture the relevant features for your specific task.
These insights also aid in diagnosing and improving network
performance, as you can pinpoint where the network might be failing to
capture essential features or where it’s focusing on irrelevant details.
Visualizing Heatmaps
Heatmaps give you a visual representation of which parts of the inputs
are firing up your convolutional neural network, particularly in the later
layers. They’re like X-rays that show you what the model considers
important in an image. In this section, you’ll use an approach known as
Grad-CAM, which stands for gradient-weighted class activation mapping, to
generate these heatmaps.
First, you need to store the activations and the gradients
corresponding to the layer for which you want to see the heatmap. You
can do this by using hooks for both the forward and backward passes of
the neural network, as shown in Listing 3-29.
hookdata = {}
def fwd_hook_func(layer, input, output):
    """Forward hook function."""
 ➊ hookdata["activations"] = output.detach().clone()
def bwd_hook_func(layer, grad_input, grad_output):
    """Backward hook function."""
 ➋ hookdata["gradients"] = grad_output[0].detach().clone()

--- Strana 211 ---
layer = cnn_classifier.model[0].blocks[3].layer
handle_fwd_hook = layer.register_forward_hook(fwd_hook_func)
handle_bwd_hook = layer.register_full_backward_hook(bwd_hook_func)
try:
    pred = cnn_classifier.model(image.unsqueeze(0))
 ➌ pred.sum().backward()
except Exception as e:
    print(f"An error occurred during model prediction: {e}")
finally:
    handle_fwd_hook.remove()
    handle_bwd_hook.remove()
Listing 3-29: Implementing hooks for forward and backward passes
This code stores the activations and gradients from the last
convolutional layer of the neural network. You initialize the hookdata
dictionary to store the activations ➊ and gradients ➋ captured by the
hooks so that you’ll also be able to use them outside the hook functions
themselves.
The fwd_hook_func() function is called during the forward pass to store
the activations ➊. These activations are detached from the current
computation graph and cloned to ensure that they are preserved as they
are at the time of the forward pass.
The bwd_hook_func() function is another hook function called during
the backward pass. This function captures the gradients flowing back
through the layer immediately after the loss is calculated and the
backward pass is initiated. The first gradient tensor grad_output[0] is
detached and cloned to the dictionary ➋.
The two hooks are registered to the final convolutional layer, saving
the corresponding handle_fwd_hook and handle_bwd_hook handles. The
prediction obtained by the forward pass is used to call the backward()
method ➌, initiating the backward pass and triggering the backward
hook. Here, the code uses pred.sum().backward() instead of pred.backward() to
combine all outputs into a single scalar before computing gradients,
which allows PyTorch to perform the backward pass without specifying

--- Strana 212 ---
a custom gradient vector. After the forward and backward passes are
complete, both the forward and backward hooks are removed.
Now you can combine activations and gradients to calculate the
heatmap, as shown in Listing 3-30.
   from torch.nn.functional import relu
   activations = hookdata["activations"][0]
   gradients = hookdata["gradients"][0]
   pooled_gradients = gradients.mean(dim=[1, 2], keepdim=True)
➊ heatmap = relu((pooled_gradients * activations).sum(0)).detach().numpy()
Listing 3-30: Calculating the heatmap
This code pools the gradients via the mean() function, which averages
them across the spatial dimensions (dim=[1, 2]). The use of keepdim=True
results in a pooled gradient with the same number of channels as the
original output, but with a spatial dimension of 1×1.
The heatmap is then calculated by multiplying these pooled
gradients with the activations (pooled_gradients * activations) ➊. This
operation is intended to weigh the activations by how much each
channel contributed to the increase in the output. The sum(0) function
aggregates these weighted activations across all channels, resulting in a
single 2D heatmap.
Finally, the relu() function is applied to the aggregated heatmap to
zero out any negative values, because you’re interested in only the
features that have a positive influence on the target class. Negative
values would indicate pixels that decrease the output for the target class,
which isn’t useful for the heatmap. The heatmap is then detached from
the computation graph and converted into a NumPy array for
visualization purposes.
Visualize the heatmap with Listing 3-31.
   from numpy import array
   from skimage.exposure import rescale_intensity
   from skimage.transform import resize

--- Strana 213 ---
   rescaled_image = rescale_intensity(array(image_hr), out_range=(0, 1))
   resized_heatmap = resize(heatmap, rescaled_image.shape, order=2)
   rescaled_heatmap = rescale_intensity(resized_heatmap, out_range=(0.25, 1))
   plt.figure(figsize=(12, 5))
   plt.subplot(1, 3, 1)
➊ plt.imshow(rescaled_image, interpolation="bilinear")
   plt.title("Original image", fontsize=16)
   plt.axis("off")
   plt.subplot(1, 3, 2)
➋ plt.imshow(rescaled_heatmap.mean(axis=-1), interpolation="bilinear")
   plt.title("Heatmap with Grad-CAM", fontsize=16)
   plt.axis("off")
   
   plt.subplot(1, 3, 3)
➌ plt.imshow(rescaled_image * rescaled_heatmap)
   plt.title("Overlay", fontsize=16)
   plt.axis("off")
   plt.show()
Listing 3-31: Plotting a heatmap
This code rescales the image’s intensity as well as the heatmap’s size
and intensity to match them. Then the code plots the image ➊, the
heatmap ➋, and their overlay ➌. Figure 3-15 shows the resulting plots.

--- Strana 214 ---
Figure 3-15: Input image (left), heatmap obtained with Grad-CAM (center), and overlay
(right)
You can see how the neural network identifies the plasmodium
present in the parasitized cell and then uses this as key information to
classify the cell image. The original image on the left presents the cell as
viewed under a microscope, with the features of interest being relatively
indistinct to the unaided eye. The Grad-CAM image in the middle
provides a heatmap that highlights the specific regions the neural
network is focusing on, with warmer colors indicating areas of higher
importance for the model’s predictions. Here, the bright spot pinpoints
the location of the plasmodium. The overlay image on the right
combines these two, superimposing the heatmap onto the original
image, thereby illustrating exactly where the plasmodium is situated
within the cell.
And there you have it: a window into your model’s mind. By
analyzing these heatmaps, you can get a sense of the features your
model is focusing on to make its decisions. This can be incredibly useful
for debugging and understanding your neural network’s behavior. For
instance, if the heatmap highlights an area devoid of relevant features,
like the corner of an image where only background is present rather
than a plasmodium, this could indicate that the model is learning to
focus on noise or artifacts rather than the meaningful patterns necessary
for accurate predictions. Such a discrepancy would suggest that further
data preprocessing is needed to remove noise, or that the model’s

--- Strana 215 ---
architecture or training process requires adjustments to ensure that it
learns to prioritize biologically relevant signals.
NOTE
Code Example 3-A, “Classifying Blood Smears with a Convolutional
Neural 
Network,” 
is 
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate 
to 
the 
Ch03_CNN 
folder 
and 
then
ec03_A_blood_smears. The blood_smears.ipynb notebook provides
the complete code example that loads the malaria dataset, trains a
convolutional neural network with a dense top to classify the images of
cells with and without malaria, analyzes where the trained network
fails, and shows the network activations and heatmaps.
Project 3B: Localizing Microscopic Particles
Determining the position of particles within an image is a fundamental
task for microscopy. In this project, you’ll build a neural network to
determine the position of an optically trapped microparticle in a video.
Loading the Videos
Start by downloading the particle videos, using Listing 3-32.
import os
if not os.path.exists("particle_dataset"):
    os.system("git clone https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/particle_dataset")
Listing 3-32: Downloading the videos of an optically trapped particle
This code downloads the particle dataset into particle_dataset. This
folder contains two videos with an optically trapped particle. One video
is acquired with very low noise (low_noise.avi), and the other with very
high noise (high_noise.avi). In both cases, an optically trapped
microscopic particle jiggles around the center of the frame because of

--- Strana 216 ---
Brownian motion. This dataset was published in 2019 by Saga
Helgadottir and co-workers in Optica (volume 6, pages 506–513).
Next, implement the load_video() function in Listing 3-33.
import cv2
import numpy as np
def load_video(path, frames_to_load, image_size):
    """Load video."""
    video = cv2.VideoCapture(path)
    data = []
    for _ in range(frames_to_load):
        _, frame = video.read()
        frame = cv2.normalize(frame, None, 0, 255, cv2.NORM_MINMAX)
        frame = cv2.cvtColor(frame, cv2.COLOR_BGR2GRAY) / 255
        frame = cv2.resize(frame, (image_size, image_size))
        data.append(frame)
    return np.array(data)
Listing 3-33: The function to load a video
This function takes as input the path to the video file, loads the
video, and returns a NumPy array containing the extracted frames. After
loading the video, the function returns frames_to_load frames. The code
extracts each frame, normalizes its pixel values to the range 0 to 255,
converts it to grayscale and normalizes the pixel values in the range 0 to
1, resizes it to image_size by image_size pixels, and stores the frame in the
data list. Finally, the function returns the list of frames as a NumPy
array.
Now use this function to load the first 100 frames for each video
with Listing 3-34.
image_size = 51
video_low_noise = \
    load_video(os.path.join("particle_dataset", "low_noise.avi"),
               frames_to_load=100, image_size=image_size)

--- Strana 217 ---
video_high_noise = \
    load_video(os.path.join("particle_dataset", "high_noise.avi"),
               frames_to_load=100, image_size=image_size)
Listing 3-34: Loading the first 100 frames of each video
Let’s have a look at some of the frames, using Listing 3-35.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
fig, axs = plt.subplots(2, 6, figsize=(24, 8))
for i in range(6):
    axs[0, i].imshow(video_low_noise[i], cmap="gray", vmin=0, vmax=1)
    axs[0, i].text(0, 5, f"Frame {i}", color="white", fontsize=24)
    axs[0, i].axis("off")
 
    axs[1, i].imshow(video_high_noise[i], cmap="gray", vmin=0, vmax=1)
    axs[1, i].text(0, 5, f"Frame {i}", color="white", fontsize=24)
    axs[1, i].axis("off")
plt.subplots_adjust(wspace=0.1, hspace=0.1)
plt.show()
Listing 3-35: Plotting the first six frames of each video
This code plots the first six frames of each video, as shown in Figure
3-16.
Figure 3-16: The first six frames of the low-noise (top) and high-noise (bottom) videos

--- Strana 218 ---
In the top row, the frames are captured with high-quality
illumination, so it’s easy to identify the particle and locate its center. The
particle is always close to the center of the frame because of the optical
trap, but not exactly in the same position because it’s continually shaken
by the Brownian motion. In the bottom row, the same particle is
captured with poor illumination. Now, it isn’t so easy anymore to
accurately locate the particle position, as you’ll experience when trying
to manually annotate this data in the next section.
Manually Annotating the Videos
To train a neural network, you need to know the ground truth. In this
case, for each video frame, you need the corresponding particle position.
A common way to get particle positions that can be used as a ground
truth is to manually annotate some of the data and then use it for
training and testing.
You can use the ManualAnnotation class shown in Listing 3-36 to do
this.
from matplotlib.widgets import Cursor
class ManualAnnotation:
    """Graphical interface for manual annotation."""
    def __init__(self, images):
        """Initialize manual annotation."""
        self.images, self.positions, self.i = images, [], 0
        self.fig, self.ax = plt.subplots(1, 1, figsize=(5, 5))
        self.fig.canvas.header_visible = False
        self.fig.canvas.footer_visible = False
    def start(self):
        """Start manual annotation."""
        self.im = self.ax.imshow(self.images[self.i], cmap="gray", 
                                 vmin=0, vmax=1)
        self.text = self.ax.text(3, 5,
                                 f"Frame {self.i + 1} of {len(self.images)}", 

--- Strana 219 ---
                                 color="white", fontsize=12)
        self.ax.axis("off")
        self.cursor = Cursor(self.ax, useblit=True, color="red", linewidth=1)
        self.cid = self.fig.canvas.mpl_connect("button_press_event", 
                                               self.onclick)
        self.next_image()
        plt.show()
    def next_image(self):
        """Get next image."""
        self.im.set_data(self.images[self.i])
        self.text.set_text(f"Frame {self.i + 1} of {len(self.images)}")
        self.fig.canvas.draw_idle()
    def onclick(self, event):
        """Save position on click."""
        self.positions.append([event.xdata, event.ydata])
        if self.i < len(self.images) - 1:
            self.i += 1
            self.next_image()
        else:
            self.fig.canvas.mpl_disconnect(self.cid)
            plt.close()
            return
Listing 3-36: The class to manually annotate the video frames with the particle position
This class creates an object that uses the Matplotlib library to create
a simple graphical user interface (GUI) that allows you to record the
position of the particle center by clicking it. The __init__() method
initializes the GUI, setting up the figure and axes and preparing the
image sequence for display. The start() method is where the actual GUI
is displayed; it shows the first image and sets up the cursor for
annotation. The next_image() method updates the display with the next
frame in the sequence. The onclick() method captures the user’s clicks,
recording the position of the particle in each frame. This method also
handles the progression to the next frame and concludes the annotation
process when all frames have been processed.

--- Strana 220 ---
You can use this class to annotate a subset of images, combining
both low-noise and high-noise ones, as shown in Listing 3-37.
➊ %matplotlib ipympl 
   number_of_images_to_annotate = 100
   dataset = np.concatenate([video_low_noise, video_high_noise], axis=0)
   np.random.shuffle(dataset)
   images_to_annotate = np.random.choice(
       np.arange(dataset.shape[0]), number_of_images_to_annotate, replace=False,
   )
   manual_annotation = ManualAnnotation(dataset[images_to_annotate])   
   manual_annotation.start()
   annotated_images = manual_annotation.images
   manual_positions = manual_annotation.positions
➋ %matplotlib inline
Listing 3-37: Manually annotating some video frames with the particle positions
This demonstrates the process of using the ManualAnnotation class for
annotating a series of images with particle positions. Initially, the script
sets up an interactive Matplotlib environment suitable for notebooks ➊.
The script prepares a dataset for annotation by combining low-noise
and high-noise video datasets and shuffling them to ensure variability.
Then the script randomly selects a subset of number_of_images_to_annotate
images from this combined dataset for annotation.
Subsequently, the script instantiates the ManualAnnotation object with
the selected images and starts the annotation process. This opens a GUI
for the user to manually annotate the particle positions in each image,
shown in Figure 3-17.

--- Strana 221 ---
Figure 3-17: The GUI for manually annotating the video frames with the particle positions
After completing the annotation, the script retrieves the annotated
images (annotated_images) and the corresponding manually recorded
positions (manual_positions). Finally, the script switches back to the normal
Matplotlib backend ➋, concluding the interactive session and returning
to the standard plotting environment.
Save the annotated images and relative positions into files, using
Listing 3-38.
if not os.path.exists("annotated_images.npy"):
    np.save("annotated_images.npy", np.array(annotated_images))
if not os.path.exists("manual_positions.npy"):
    np.save("manual_positions.npy", np.array(manual_positions))
Listing 3-38: Saving the annotated images and relative positions
This script saves the data as NumPy arrays into the
annotated_images.npy and manual_positions.npy files, but only if these files
don’t already exist.

--- Strana 222 ---
Now you need to define the data loaders to use the data in the
training. To do this, you first need to define a custom dataset, as shown
in Listing 3-39.
import torch
class AnnotatedDataset(torch.utils.data.Dataset):
    """Manually annotated dataset."""
    def __init__(self, file_images, file_positions):
        """Load annotated images and manual positions."""
        self.images = np.load(file_images)
        self.positions = np.load(file_positions)
    def __len__(self):
        """Return number of images."""
        return self.images.shape[0]
    def __getitem__(self, idx):
        """Get next image and annotated position."""
     ➊ im = torch.tensor(self.images[idx, np.newaxis, :, :]).float()
     ➋ pos = torch.tensor(self.positions[idx] / im.shape[-1] - 0.5).float()
        return [im, pos]
Listing 3-39: Implementing a custom dataset for the manually annotated particle data
This class inherits from the PyTorch Dataset class. It contains the
particles’ images and positions loaded from the files saved during the
annotation process. When a new item is requested, the __getitem__()
method of this class converts the image into a PyTorch tensor with an
added new axis for the batch dimension and data type set to float for
computational efficiency ➊. The __getitem__() method then normalizes
the position by dividing it by the image width (im.shape[-1]), offsets the
position by 0.5 to refer it to the center of the image (and not to its
lower-left corner), and converts the position into a float PyTorch tensor
➋. Finally, the class combines the processed image tensor and the
position tensor into a list to be returned.
Now that you’ve defined a custom dataset, create an instance of it

--- Strana 223 ---
ann_dataset = AnnotatedDataset(file_images="annotated_images.npy", 
                               file_positions="manual_positions.npy")
and use it to create the data loaders:
import deeplay as dl
train_ann_dataset, test_ann_dataset = \
    torch.utils.data.random_split(ann_dataset, [0.8, 0.2])
train_ann_dataloader = dl.DataLoader(train_ann_dataset, batch_size=1)
test_ann_dataloader = dl.DataLoader(test_ann_dataset, batch_size=1)
This code splits the annotated data into training and test sets so that 80
percent of the data is in the training set. Then the code creates a
training data loader and a testing data loader.
Implementing a Convolutional Neural Network
Now you’re ready to implement the neural network for classification
with Listing 3-40.
cnn = dl.Sequential(
    dl.ConvolutionalNeuralNetwork(
        in_channels=1, hidden_channels=[16, 32], out_channels=64, 
        pool=torch.nn.MaxPool2d(kernel_size=2), out_activation=torch.nn.ReLU,
    ),
    dl.Layer(torch.nn.MaxPool2d, kernel_size=2),
    dl.Layer(torch.nn.Flatten),
    dl.MultiLayerPerceptron(
        in_features=6 * 6 * 64, hidden_features=[32, 32], out_features=2, 
        out_activation=torch.nn.Identity,
    ),
)
Listing 3-40: Implementing the convolutional neural network with a dense top
This code implements a convolutional neural network with a dense
top that accepts as input an image of the particle and returns as output
its predicted x- and y-coordinates. Before proceeding further, print out

--- Strana 224 ---
this neural network with print(cnn) and explore its details; it’s indeed
good practice to verify in the printout that the various layers and their
properties match the way you set them up.
Next, compile the neural network with Listing 3-41.
   from torchmetrics import MeanAbsoluteError as MAE
➊ cnn_regressor_template = dl.Regressor(
       model=cnn, loss=torch.nn.MSELoss(), optimizer=dl.Adam(), metrics=[MAE()],
   )
➋ cnn_ann_regressor = cnn_regressor_template.create()
Listing 3-41: Compiling the neural network
This code creates a template to use the neural network as a regressor
➊, setting up its loss function (torch.nn.MSELoss()), its optimizer (dl.Adam()),
and a metric to be tracked (MAE()). Then the code creates a concrete
instance of this template ➋. You can check the structure of this
regressor with print(cnn_ann_regressor) and verify that its architecture and
properties are as set up.
Training with Annotated Data
To train the neural network with the manually annotated data, use
cnn_ann_trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=50, accelerator="auto")
cnn_ann_trainer.fit(cnn_ann_regressor, train_ann_dataloader)
which trains the neural network for 50 epochs with the manually
annotated data.
Testing the Trained Neural Network
Next, evaluate the trained neural network performance:
test_ann_results = cnn_ann_trainer.test(cnn_ann_regressor, test_ann_dataloader)
MAE_ann = test_ann_results[0]["testMeanAbsoluteError_epoch"] * image_size
print(f"Mean pixel error (MAE): {MAE_ann:.3f} pixels")

--- Strana 225 ---
This code tests the neural network against the test annotated data, then
retrieves the MAE from the tracked metrics. This error is transformed
from normalized units into pixels by multiplying it by image_size, and the
result is printed. Depending on the consistency of your annotations, you
might observe mean pixel errors varying from 0.2 to 2 pixels, indicating
a substantial margin of error.
NOTE
The observed error in this context relates to the precision of your
manual annotations. Precision here refers to the consistency or
repeatability of your annotations. Higher error values indicate lower
precision, suggesting that repeating annotations on the same image
may yield significantly different positions. This concept of precision is
distinct from the accuracy of the manual annotation process. Accuracy
concerns how closely your annotations align with the actual ground-
truth values. However, without access to these ground-truth values, it
isn’t possible to directly assess the accuracy of your manual annotations.
Therefore, while you can gauge the precision of your work, assessing its
accuracy remains a challenge in the absence of a known standard or
reference.
Repeating the annotation process with your family and friends could
be a fascinating experiment to explore the variability and reliability of
manual annotations. By involving multiple annotators, you can assess
how different individuals perceive and mark the same set of images.
This approach offers several benefits and insights, such as
understanding the range of precision among different people,
identifying potential biases in annotation, and determining whether
certain images are consistently difficult to annotate.
Visualizing the Predictions
Finally, you can visualize the predictions of the trained network and
compare them with your manual annotations, using Listing 3-42.

--- Strana 226 ---
➊ indices = np.random.choice(np.arange(len(test_ann_dataset)), 6, replace=False)
➋ images = [test_ann_dataset[index][0] for index in indices]
➌ annotations = [test_ann_dataset[index][1] for index in indices]
➍ predictions = cnn_ann_regressor(torch.stack(images))
   fig, axs = plt.subplots(1, 6, figsize=(25, 8))
   for ax, im, ann, pred in zip(axs, images, annotations, predictions):
       ax.imshow(im.numpy().squeeze(), cmap="gray")
    
       ann = ann * image_size + image_size / 2
       ax.scatter(ann[0], ann[1], marker="+", c="g", s=500, linewidth=6, 
                  label="Annotation")
    
       pred = pred.detach().numpy() * image_size + image_size / 2
       ax.scatter(pred[0], pred[1], marker="x", c="r", s=500, linewidth=4, 
                  label="Prediction")
       ax.set_axis_off()
   ax.legend(loc=(0.5, 0.8), framealpha=1, fontsize=24)
   plt.show()
Listing 3-42: Comparing the predictions with the manual annotations
This code chooses some random frame indices ➊. Then it extracts
the relative images ➋ and annotations ➌ and predicts the positions by
using the neural network trained with the manual annotations ➍. The
code then generates images that should look similar to those in Figure
3-18.
Figure 3-18: Particle images with annotated and predicted positions
The network has, in fact, learned to predict particle positions that
are close to the manual annotations used for its training, as you can

--- Strana 227 ---
verify by observing that the annotation and prediction markers match.
Simulating the Training Data
You can enhance your neural network’s performance by using simulated
data rather than relying on manually annotated data. Manual
annotations can be inconsistent because of differences in the way
different people interpret data (interobserver variability) and because the
same person may interpret data differently over time (intraobserver
variability). Additionally, manually labeling data is often slow, effort
intensive, and difficult to scale.
In contrast, using simulated datasets for training removes the
inconsistencies associated with human annotations and enables the
generation of substantially larger datasets. Such large datasets are vital
for effectively training deep learning models.
To create simulated datasets that closely mimic experimental
conditions, you need to carefully design them to incorporate a range of
variable properties and realistic noise. This process requires simulating
the various scenarios, conditions, and outliers that the neural network
might encounter in real-world applications. You need to integrate
factors such as differing lighting conditions and sensor noise to ensure
that the dataset is comprehensive and challenging enough, replicating
the complexity and unpredictability of real-world data as closely as
possible.
Creating Particle Images
You’ll use the DeepTrack2 library to generate simulated particle images,
which will then be used to train your model. As you’ll see, this method
streamlines the training process while also potentially increasing the
robustness and accuracy of the neural network.
Define the particle via the MieSphere class, as shown in Listing 3-43.
import deeptrack as dt
particle = dt.scatterers.MieSphere(
    position=(25, 25), z=0, radius=500e-9, refractive_index=1.37, 

--- Strana 228 ---
    position_unit="pixel",
)
Listing 3-43: Defining a microscopic particle with its physical parameters
This code defines the position of the particle in the image along the
x- and y-axes, its z-coordinate, its radius in meters, its refractive index,
and the units of the positions.
Next, you need to specify the optical device to image the particle.
You’ll use a bright-field microscope, implemented by the Brightfield
class, as shown in Listing 3-44.
brightfield_microscope = dt.optics.Brightfield(
    wavelength=630e-9, NA=0.8, resolution=1e-6, magnification=15, 
    refractive_index_medium=1.33, output_region=(0, 0, image_size, image_size),
)
Listing 3-44: Defining the optical device
This code defines the wavelength of the illuminating light in meters,
the numerical aperture of the objective, the effective camera pixel size in
meters, the magnification of the optical device, the refractive index of
the medium where the particle is immersed, and the size of the camera
sensor in pixels. These optical device parameters are defined such that
they (loosely) match the experimental conditions in which the videos
were acquired.
To create images of the particles, you need to combine
brightfield_microscope with particle:
imaged_particle = brightfield_microscope(particle)
This code passes the particle to the bright-field microscope, creating the
new imaged_particle pipeline that you’ll use to create images of the
particle. A pipeline is a series of steps or processes that allows for the
systematic transformation, analysis, and interpretation of data.
Plot the simulated particle image with the plot_simulated_particles()
function in Listing 3-45.

--- Strana 229 ---
def plot_simulated_particles(image_pipeline):
    """Plot simulated particles."""
    fig, axs = plt.subplots(1, 6, figsize=(25, 8))
    for i, ax in enumerate(axs.flatten()):
        image = image_pipeline.update().resolve()
        ax.imshow(np.squeeze(image), cmap="gray")
        ax.set_xticks([])
        ax.set_yticks([])
    plt.show()
Listing 3-45: The function to plot the images of simulated particles
This function calls the update() method on the image_pipeline to get a
new instance of the particle, and the resolve() method to resolve the
simulation pipeline and to return the image of the particle. Then the
function squeezes the resulting image to plot it.
You can plot multiple particle images obtained with this pipeline,
using Listing 3-46.
plot_simulated_particles(imaged_particle)
Listing 3-46: Rendering images of the particle
Figure 3-19 shows the resulting examples of simulated particles.
Figure 3-19: The simulated particle images
At the moment, the simulation pipeline is completely deterministic
so that the particle will always have the same properties and be at the
same position. This is why the six images are exactly the same. In the
following section, you’ll see how to make images of particles with a
range of random properties.
Varying Particle Properties

--- Strana 230 ---
To simulate images representative of the experimental dataset, you need
to vary the particle’s position, radius, and refractive index. You can do
this by defining the particle’s properties as functions that return a
random value within a given range, updating Listing 3-43 as shown in
Listing 3-47.
particle = dt.scatterers.MieSphere(
    position=lambda: np.random.uniform(image_size / 2 - 5, 
                                       image_size / 2 + 5, 2),
    z=lambda: np.random.uniform(-1, -1),
    radius=lambda: np.random.uniform(500, 600) * 1e-9,
    refractive_index=lambda: np.random.uniform(1.37, 1.42),
    position_unit="pixel",
)
imaged_particle = brightfield_microscope(particle)
Listing 3-47: Simulating a particle with variable properties (by modifying Listing 3-43)
This code defines the particle’s properties as lambda functions that
return a random value within a given range. Lambda functions are small
anonymous functions in programming that have a simple expression.
The ranges are chosen to match the experimental conditions.
The position of the particle is a lambda function that returns two
random values defined in the range from image_size / 2 - 5 to image_size /
2 + 5, its z-coordinate is a lambda function that returns a random value
drawn from a uniform distribution defined in the range from –1 to 1, its
radius is a lambda function that returns a random value in the range
from 500 nm to 600 nm, and its refractive index is a lambda function
that returns a random value defined in the range (1.37, 1.42). The code
then resets imaged_particle to use the new particle.
When you plot examples of the resulting particle images with
Listing 3-46, you should get particle images like those shown in Figure
3-20.

--- Strana 231 ---
Figure 3-20: The simulated particle images with random parameters
These particle images are different each time imaged_particle is
updated.
Generating Noisy Images
Although now the simulated images reproduce the variability
encountered in experiments, they are still lacking the noise always
present in experimental images. You can generate noisy images by
adding a Poisson noise source to the simulation pipeline, as shown in
Listing 3-48.
noise = dt.Poisson(
    min_snr=5, max_snr=20, background=1,
 ➊ snr=lambda min_snr, max_snr: np.random.uniform(min_snr, max_snr),
)
noisy_imaged_particle = imaged_particle >> noise
plot_simulated_particles(noisy_imaged_particle)
Listing 3-48: Adding noise to the simulation pipeline
This code adds noise to the simulated images of the particles,
defining the minimum signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) as 5 and the
maximum SNR as 20. Then a lambda function is defined to determine
the SNR as a random value between the minimum and maximum SNR
➊, which is also a good example of a lambda function with two inputs.
The code also defines the background intensity as 1, which is used to
calculate the signal of the image. Finally, the code adds the noise source
to the simulation pipeline by using the >> operator and plots some
examples of the resulting images, shown in Figure 3-21.

--- Strana 232 ---
Figure 3-21: The simulated particle images with noise
Finally, to ensure that the neural network inputs are consistently
scaled, facilitating more-stable and efficient learning, you should
normalize the images to the range of 0 to 1 with Listing 3-49.
normalization = dt.NormalizeMinMax(lambda: np.random.uniform(0.0, 0.2), 
                                   lambda: np.random.uniform(0.8, 1.0))
image_pipeline = noisy_imaged_particle >> normalization
Listing 3-49: Normalizing the simulated images
This code defines the normalization function, setting the minimum
and maximum values of the normalization to random values in the range
(0, 0.2) and (0.8, 1), respectively. Then the normalization function is
added to the simulation pipeline via the >> operator.
Getting Particle Positions
Now you need to extract the particle’s position from the simulated
image to use as the ground truth when training the neural network:
pipeline = image_pipeline & particle.position
This code uses the & operator to create a pipeline to get both the
simulated image and the particle position, which you can get as follows:
image, position = pipeline.update().resolve()
Then update the plot_simulated_particles() function to also plot the
positions of the particles, as shown in Listing 3-50.
def plot_simulated_particles_with_positions(pipeline):
    """Plot simulated particles with positions."""
    --snip--
    for i, ax in enumerate(axes.flatten()):

--- Strana 233 ---
        image, position = pipeline.update().resolve()
        ax.imshow(np.squeeze(image), cmap="gray")
        ax.scatter(position[1], position[0], s=500, facecolors="none", 
                   edgecolor="g", linewidth=6)
        --snip--
Listing 3-50: The function to plot the images of simulated particles with their position (by
modifying Listing 3-45)
Use this function to plot the simulated particles with their ground-
truth positions:
plot_simulated_particles_with_positions(pipeline)
The resulting images should look like those in Figure 3-22.
Figure 3-22: The simulated particles with ground-truth positions
As expected, the ground-truth positions (plotted as circles) are
perfectly at the center of the simulated images of particles, providing
the data you need to train the neural network.
Preprocessing the Simulated Data
Modify the AnnotatedDataset class to work with the simulation pipeline
instead of the annotated data, creating the SimulatedDataset class in Listing
3-51.
class SimulatedDataset(torch.utils.data.Dataset):
    """Dataset with simulated particles."""
    def __init__(self, pipeline, data_size):
        """Initialize simulated dataset."""
        images, positions = [], []

--- Strana 234 ---
        for _ in range(data_size):
         ➊ image, position = pipeline.update().resolve()
         ➋ images.append(image), positions.append(position[[1, 0]])
        self.images, self.positions = np.array(images), np.array(positions)
 
    --snip--
 
    def __getitem__(self, idx):
        """Get next image and annotated position."""
     ➌ im = torch.tensor(self.images[idx]).float().permute(2, 0, 1)
     ➍ pos = torch.tensor(self.positions[idx] / im.shape[-1] - 0.5).float()
        return [im, pos]
Listing 3-51: Implementing a custom dataset for the simulated data (by modifying Listing 3-
39)
In its initialization, this updated class creates the required number of
simulations ➊, from which it saves as class attributes the images
themselves and the relative ground-truth positions ➋. When getting an
item, the __getitem__() method returns the image ➌ and the relative
position ➍ already prepared as float PyTorch tensors.
Use this class to create the training and test data loaders, as shown in
Listing 3-52.
train_sim_dataloader = dl.DataLoader(
    SimulatedDataset(pipeline=pipeline, data_size=10_000), batch_size=32,
)
test_sim_dataloader = dl.DataLoader(
    SimulatedDataset(pipeline=pipeline, data_size=100), batch_size=32,
)
Listing 3-52: Creating the data loaders for the simulated data
This code creates a training data loader with a dataset of 10,000
images, many more than what you could manually annotate in a
reasonable amount of time. For the test dataset, you can still use just
100 images.
Training with Simulated Data

--- Strana 235 ---
Now you’re all set to train the neural network with simulated data:
cnn_sim_regressor = cnn_regressor_template.create()
cnn_sim_trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=50, accelerator="auto")
cnn_sim_trainer.fit(cnn_sim_regressor, train_sim_dataloader)
This code creates a new instance of cnn_regressor_template and a new
trainer and proceeds to train this second neural network with the
simulated dataset.
Testing the Trained Neural Network
Test the trained neural network:
test_sim_results = cnn_sim_trainer.test(cnn_sim_regressor, test_sim_dataloader)
MAE_sim = test_sim_results[0]["testMeanAbsoluteError_epoch"] * image_size
print(f"Mean pixel error (MAE): {MAE_sim:.3f} pixels")
This code computes and prints the MAE of the neural network trained
with simulated data, expected to be below 0.1 pixels. This represents a
significant improvement in the neural network’s precision compared to
the model trained on manually annotated data. The improvement
primarily stems from the systematic nature of the simulated data, which
eliminates human-induced inconsistencies, as well as from the larger
size of the dataset, which is crucial for deep learning models.
As an interesting exercise, you could analyze the impact of varying
the size of the training dataset on the model’s performance, gaining
insights into the scalability and adaptability of the neural network to
different data volumes.
Plotting the Predictions vs. the Ground Truth
To further evaluate the network’s performance, you can plot the
predicted particle positions versus the true particle positions, using
Listing 3-53.
preds, gts = [], []
for image, position in iter(test_sim_dataloader):
 ➊ preds.append(cnn_sim_regressor(image))

--- Strana 236 ---
 ➋ gts.append(position)
preds = torch.cat(preds, dim=0).detach().numpy()
gts = torch.cat(gts, dim=0).numpy()
fig, axs = plt.subplots(1, 2)
for i, ax, coordinate in zip([0, 1], axs, ["x", "y"]):
    gt, pred = gts[:][:, i], preds[:][:, i]
    ax.scatter(gt, pred, alpha=0.2)
    ax.plot([np.min(gt), np.max(gt)], [np.min(pred), np.max(pred)], c="k")
    ax.set_title(f"{coordinate}-coordinates")
    ax.set_xlabel("Prediction")
    ax.set_ylabel("Ground truth")
    ax.set_aspect("equal")
    ax.set_xlim([-0.07, 0.07])
    ax.set_ylim([-0.07, 0.07])
    ax.label_outer()
plt.show()
Listing 3-53: Plotting the predictions versus the ground truth
In the for loop, this code iterates over each item in the test data
loader. For each item, the neural network predicts the particle position
and appends it to the preds list ➊. Correspondingly, the actual ground-
truth position from the data item is appended to the gts list ➋. After
completing the loop, the lists of predictions and ground truths are
concatenated into tensors and then converted into NumPy arrays for
ease of handling and visualization. Finally, they are plotted in the
predictions-versus-ground-truth plots shown in Figure 3-23.

--- Strana 237 ---
Figure 3-23: Ground-truth versus predicted positions
The predicted particle positions are in good agreement with the true
particle positions, demonstrating the high quality of the training.
Comparing with the Annotated Data
Let’s compare the positions obtained by the neural network trained on
simulated data with your manual annotations:
test_ann_results_with_cnn_sim = \
    cnn_sim_trainer.test(cnn_sim_regressor, test_ann_dataloader)
MAE_ann_with_cnn_sim = (test_ann_results_with_cnn_sim[0]
                        ["testMeanAbsoluteError_epoch"] * image_size)
print(f"Mean pixel error (MAE): {MAE_ann_with_cnn_sim:.3f} pixels")
In this case, the MAE obtained from this test will strongly depend on
your manual annotations.
As a last check, you can plot both the manual annotations and the
network predictions on top of the experimental images, using Listing 3-
54, which is a modification of Listing 3-42.

--- Strana 238 ---
--snip--
predictions = cnn_sim_regressor(torch.stack(images))
--snip--
Listing 3-54: Plotting the predictions of the simulated data–trained neural network in
comparison with the manual annotations (by modifying Listing 3-42)
Figure 3-24 shows the resulting images.
Figure 3-24: The manual annotations and predictions of the neural network trained on
simulated data
The neural network predictions and the manual annotations are
quite close—at least in this example, as this will strongly depend on the
quality of your manual annotations.
NOTE
Code Example 3-B, “Localizing Microscopic Particles,” is available at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate 
to 
the 
Ch03_CNN 
folder 
and 
then
ec03_B_particle_localization. The particle_localization.ipynb
notebook provides a complete code example that trains a convolutional
neural network with a dense top, using annotated and simulated data,
and then applies the trained neural network to experimental videos of
an optically trapped particle.
Project 3C: Creating DeepDreams
In this project, you’ll explore DeepDreams—a concept conceived by
Google engineer Alexander Mordvintsev. The fundamental question at
the heart of DeepDreams is: How can an image be transformed to

--- Strana 239 ---
maximally activate a specific layer in a trained convolutional neural
network?
This approach essentially flips the neural network training process
on its head. Instead of tuning the weights of the network layers for
optimal performance, you’ll use backpropagation and gradient ascent to
morph the input image into a form that highly activates a target layer.
This method gives you a unique look into what a particular layer in a
neural network is most responsive to, or “sees.”
The DeepDreams algorithm has been aptly named for its ability to
produce dreamlike, almost hallucinogenic imagery through a process of
deliberate overprocessing. Interestingly, this process was named
Inceptionism, which is a reference to InceptionNet, the first
convolutional neural network used to generate DeepDreams, and the
movie Inception.
For this project, you’ll implement the DeepDreams algorithm and
apply it to transform an image. Prior to starting this project, it’s essential
that you are already acquainted with the concepts introduced in Project
3A, particularly those relating to hooks and layer activations.
Loading an Image
You’ll start by loading the image in the neuraltissue_with_colorlabels.png
file. This image, sourced from the Drosophila ssTEM dataset at
https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/Segmented_anisotropic_ssTEM_dataset_of
_neural_tissue/856713, features a cross-section of neural tissue from the
ventral nerve cord of a fruit fly larva (scientifically known as Drosophila
melanogaster). Load the image with Listing 3-55.
from PIL import Image
image_file = "neuraltissue_with_colorlabels.png"
im = Image.open(image_file).convert("RGB").resize((256, 256))
Listing 3-55: Loading the image
This code uses Pillow, the common Python package for image
processing, to load the image, convert it to RGB, and resize it from the

--- Strana 240 ---
original 1024×1024 pixels to 256×256 pixels for computational
convenience.
Once the image is loaded, plot it by using Listing 3-56.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
plt.imshow(im)
plt.axis("off")
plt.show()
Listing 3-56: Plotting the image
Figure 3-25 shows the resulting image.
Figure 3-25: A transmission electron microscopy image of the neural tissue of a fruit fly
larva
In the image, various neural structures are labeled with different
shades to facilitate identification. In particular, the roundish shapes are
the neuron mitochondria. Each pixel corresponds to a square with a side
of length 18.4 nm (in the original image, before downsampling, it’s 4.6
nm).
Loading a Pretrained Neural Network

--- Strana 241 ---
To create DeepDreams, you need to use a pretrained network. So, you’ll
import the VGG16 model, a pretrained neural network known for its
proficiency in image-recognition tasks, using Listing 3-57.
from torchvision.models import vgg16, VGG16_Weights
model = vgg16(weights=VGG16_Weights.IMAGENET1K_V1)
model.eval()
model.requires_grad_(False)
Listing 3-57: Loading the VGG16 pretrained neural network
This code loads the VGG16 model with weights trained on the
ImageNet dataset. This large-scale, extensively annotated image
database, designed for use in research on visual object recognition
software, contains millions of images categorized according to a
hierarchy of descriptive labels. The code then sets the model to
evaluation mode with the eval() method and freezes all weights to
prevent further changes with the requires_grad_(False) method.
When you print the VGG16 model with print(model), you get Listing
3-58.
VGG(
  (features): Sequential(
    (0): Conv2d(3, 64, kernel_size=(3, 3), stride=(1, 1), padding=(1, 1))
    (1): ReLU(inplace=True)
    (2): Conv2d(64, 64, kernel_size=(3, 3), stride=(1, 1), padding=(1, 1))
    (3): ReLU(inplace=True)
    (4): MaxPool2d(kernel_size=2, stride=2, padding=0, dilation=1, ...
    (5): Conv2d(64, 128, kernel_size=(3, 3), stride=(1, 1), padding=(1, 1))
    (6): ReLU(inplace=True)
    (7): Conv2d(128, 128, kernel_size=(3, 3), stride=(1, 1), padding=(1, 1))
    (8): ReLU(inplace=True)
    (9): MaxPool2d(kernel_size=2, stride=2, padding=0, dilation=1, ...
    (10): Conv2d(128, 256, kernel_size=(3, 3), stride=(1, 1), padding=(1, 1))
    (11): ReLU(inplace=True)
    (12): Conv2d(256, 256, kernel_size=(3, 3), stride=(1, 1), padding=(1, 1))
    (13): ReLU(inplace=True)

--- Strana 242 ---
    (14): Conv2d(256, 256, kernel_size=(3, 3), stride=(1, 1), padding=(1, 1))
    (15): ReLU(inplace=True)
    (16): MaxPool2d(kernel_size=2, stride=2, padding=0, dilation=1, ...
    (17): Conv2d(256, 512, kernel_size=(3, 3), stride=(1, 1), padding=(1, 1))
    (18): ReLU(inplace=True)
    (19): Conv2d(512, 512, kernel_size=(3, 3), stride=(1, 1), padding=(1, 1))
    (20): ReLU(inplace=True)
    (21): Conv2d(512, 512, kernel_size=(3, 3), stride=(1, 1), padding=(1, 1))
    (22): ReLU(inplace=True)
    (23): MaxPool2d(kernel_size=2, stride=2, padding=0, dilation=1, ...
    (24): Conv2d(512, 512, kernel_size=(3, 3), stride=(1, 1), padding=(1, 1))
    (25): ReLU(inplace=True)
    (26): Conv2d(512, 512, kernel_size=(3, 3), stride=(1, 1), padding=(1, 1))
    (27): ReLU(inplace=True)
    (28): Conv2d(512, 512, kernel_size=(3, 3), stride=(1, 1), padding=(1, 1))
    (29): ReLU(inplace=True)
    (30): MaxPool2d(kernel_size=2, stride=2, padding=0, dilation=1, ...
  )
  (avgpool): AdaptiveAvgPool2d(output_size=(7, 7))
  (classifier): Sequential(
    (0): Linear(in_features=25088, out_features=4096, bias=True)
    (1): ReLU(inplace=True)
    (2): Dropout(p=0.5, inplace=False)
    (3): Linear(in_features=4096, out_features=4096, bias=True)
    (4): ReLU(inplace=True)
    (5): Dropout(p=0.5, inplace=False)
    (6): Linear(in_features=4096, out_features=1000, bias=True)
  )
)
Listing 3-58: Printout of the VGG16 model
The VGG16 model is structured hierarchically, starting with a
features module composed of a series of convolutional (Conv2d) and ReLU
(ReLU) layers. These layers progressively increase the number of feature
maps, starting from 64 channels and going up to 512, with each
convolutional layer using 3×3 kernel sizes and 1×1 strides, often
followed by ReLU for nonlinear activation. This module also includes

--- Strana 243 ---
multiple max pooling layers (MaxPool2d) with a 2×2 kernel and a stride of
2, reducing the spatial dimensions after certain stages.
The avgpool module, which is an adaptive average pooling layer,
follows the features module, resizing the output to a fixed size of 7×7,
independent of the size of the input image—hence its adaptive nature.
Finally, the classifier module comprises three fully connected layers
(Linear), each with 4,096 neurons (except the last one, which has 1,000
neurons corresponding to the classes of the ImageNet dataset),
interspersed with ReLU activations and dropout layers to prevent
overfitting.
When using the VGG16 model, it’s crucial to normalize the input
images by using the mean and standard deviation values specific to the
ImageNet dataset’s color channels. This ensures that the input data
aligns with the data distribution the model was originally trained on.
You can do this with Listing 3-59.
import numpy as np
import torch
mean = np.array([0.485, 0.456, 0.406], dtype=np.float32)
std = np.array([0.229, 0.224, 0.225], dtype=np.float32)
low = torch.tensor((- mean / std).reshape(1, -1, 1, 1))
high = torch.tensor(((1 - mean) / std).reshape(1, -1, 1, 1))
Listing 3-59: Defining the normalization parameters for VGG16
This code defines the normalization parameters. The mean array
contains the mean values for the red, green, and blue channels, while the
std array holds the standard deviations for these channels.
Implementing the DeepDreams Algorithm
Now that you’ve loaded the image you want to transform into a
DeepDream and the neural network you want to use to do so, you can
proceed to implement the DeepDreams algorithm.

--- Strana 244 ---
Before actually implementing the algorithm, recall how a neural
network works: When an image is fed into the network, the activations
of the different layers of the neural network depend on which features
they’ve been trained to detect. Early layers might detect simple features
like edges and textures, while deeper layers recognize more-complex
features like shapes or specific objects.
The DeepDreams algorithm reverses this process. Instead of using
the network to detect features, the algorithm modifies the original
image to amplify the features that the network detects. This is done by
applying gradients to the image that transform it to increase the
activation of certain layers. The core technique is gradient ascent in the
input space. This technique involves asking the network’s layers not just
to detect features in an image but to enhance the features they detect.
For example, if a cloud looks slightly like a bird, the DeepDreams
algorithm will adjust the image to make it look even more like a bird.
The DeepDreams process is iterative. An image is put through the
network, tweaked slightly to enhance its features, and then put through
the network again, in a loop. With each pass through the network, the
image is further modified to enhance its features—creating familiar
shapes and patterns where none existed, often resulting in surreal,
dreamlike images that have swirling patterns or fantastical creatures.
Using Gradient Ascent
First, you need to convert the image into a PyTorch tensor. You can do
this with the image_to_tensor() function shown in Listing 3-60.
import torchvision.transforms as tt
def image_to_tensor(im, mean, std):
    """Convert image to tensor."""
    normalize = tt.Compose([tt.ToTensor(), tt.Normalize(mean, std)])
    return normalize(im).unsqueeze(0).requires_grad_(True)
Listing 3-60: The function to convert an image to a tensor
This function defines the normalize transformation sequence, which
first converts the image into a tensor and then normalizes it via the

--- Strana 245 ---
provided mean and std values. The normalized image tensor is then
expanded by one dimension via unsqueeze(0) to make it into a batch that
can be passed to VGG16. Finally, gradient calculation is enabled for the
image tensor via requires_grad_(True), which is essential to transform the
image through gradient ascent.
Now use this function to convert the image into a PyTorch tensor:
im_tensor = image_to_tensor(im, mean, std)
Next, write the core of the DeepDreams algorithm, shown in
Listing 3-61.
➊ layer = model.features[1]
   iter_num = 100
   eta = 0.1
   hookdata = {}
   def hook_func(layer, input, output):
       """Hook for activations."""
       hookdata["activations"] = output
   for _ in range(iter_num):
       handle = layer.register_forward_hook(hook_func)
       try:
        ➋ _ = model(im_tensor)
       except Exception as e:
           print(f"An error occurred during model prediction: {e}")
       finally:
           handle.remove()
    ➌ loss = hookdata["activations"].mean()
    ➍ loss.backward()
       grad_mean = torch.mean(im_tensor.grad.data)
       grad_std = torch.std(im_tensor.grad.data)
    ➎ normalized_grad = (im_tensor.grad.data - grad_mean) / (grad_std + 1e-8)

--- Strana 246 ---
    ➏ im_tensor.data = im_tensor.data + eta * normalized_grad
    ➐ im_tensor.grad.zero_()
    ➑ im_tensor.data.clamp_(low, high)
Listing 3-61: Performing the DeepDreams gradient ascent
This script calculates the DeepDreams version of the image that
maximizes the activation of the first ReLU layer ➊ (the second layer of
the features module of model).
The iterative process transforming the image by gradient ascent
performs the following steps:
1. Applies a forward hook (defined by the hook_func() function) to
capture layer activations ➋. No output is needed, as you need just
the activations calculated in the forward pass and saved by the
hook in hookdata.
2. Calculates the mean activation of the layer to be used as loss ➌.
3. Propagates the loss backward to calculate the gradients in the
image ➍. No gradients are calculated for the VGG16 model, as
it’s set in evaluation mode and its weights are frozen.
4. Normalizes the gradient of the image ➎.
5. Updates the image based on the calculated gradients performing
the gradient ascent ➏.
6. Clears the gradient in preparation of the next iteration ➐.
7. Clamps the image data to the bounds of the normalized image
values to ensure that the image’s pixel values are valid ➑.
NOTE
In implementing algorithms like DeepDreams, choosing the right
number of iterations (iter_num) and step size (eta, which is quite
similar to the learning rate that you’ve seen in the backpropagation
algorithm) is crucial and often involves a bit of trial and error.

--- Strana 247 ---
Typically, iter_num ranges from 10 to 100, affecting the depth of the
image transformation (more iterations lead to more-complex changes
but could introduce noise). The value of eta is usually set from about
0.01 to 0.1 and dictates the magnitude of each image update. A larger
step size makes more drastic changes per iteration, while a smaller step
size results in subtler, more gradual alterations. The key is to balance
these parameters to achieve meaningful transformations without
excessively distorting the original image.
Next, you need convert the image tensor back to the image format.
You can do this with the tensor_to_image() function shown in Listing 3-62.
def tensor_to_image(image, mean, std):
    """Convert tensor to image."""
 ➊ denormalize = tt.Normalize(mean=- mean / std, std=1 / std)
    im_array = denormalize(image.data.clone().detach().squeeze()).numpy()
 ➋ im_array = np.clip(im_array.transpose(1, 2, 0) * 255, 0, 255)
 ➌ im_array = im_array.astype(np.uint8)
 ➍ return Image.fromarray(im_array, "RGB")
Listing 3-62: The function to convert a tensor back to an image
This function first defines a denormalization operation ➊, which
reverses the effect of the previous normalization by using negative mean
values and reciprocal standard deviation values. Next, the function
applies the denormalization to the image tensor after cloning it,
detaching it from the current computation graph, and squeezing it to
remove the batch dimension. Finally, it converts image to the im_array
NumPy array. This array is transposed to adjust the channel order from
CHW (channels, height, width) to HWC ➋, scaled back to the original
0-to-255 range, clipped to ensure that the values stay within this range,
and converted to an unsigned 8-bit integer format ➌. The final step is
to create and return a Pillow Image from this array, specifying RGB as the
color mode ➍.
Now use this function to convert the tensor back to the image
format:

--- Strana 248 ---
im_deepdream = tensor_to_image(im_tensor, mean, std)
Finally, you can render your first DeepDream, using Listing 3-63.
plt.imshow(im_deepdream)
plt.title("DeepDream for Layer 1")
plt.axis("off")
plt.show()
Listing 3-63: Plotting a DeepDream
You should get something similar to Figure 3-26.
Figure 3-26: The DeepDream corresponding to the first layer
In this DeepDream corresponding to layer 1 of the neural network,
the abundance of dot-like patterns and textures reflects this layer’s focus
on detecting basic features such as edges and simple textures in the
input image.
Refactoring the DeepDreams Code as a Function

--- Strana 249 ---
To improve the organization and reusability of your code, you can
refactor the DeepDreams code into the deepdream() function shown in
Listing 3-64.
def deepdream(im, layer_index, iter_num=100, eta=0.1):
    """Generate DeepDream."""
    mean = np.array([0.485, 0.456, 0.406], dtype=np.float32)
    std = np.array([0.229, 0.224, 0.225], dtype=np.float32)
    low = torch.tensor((-mean / std).reshape(1, -1, 1, 1))
    high = torch.tensor(((1 - mean) / std).reshape(1, -1, 1, 1))
    im_tensor = image_to_tensor(im, mean, std)
 
    hookdata = {}
    --snip--
    layer = model.features[layer_index]
    for _ in range(iter_num):
        --snip--
    im_deepdream = tensor_to_image(im_tensor, mean, std)
    plt.imshow(im_deepdream)
    plt.title(f"DeepDream for Layer {layer_index}")
    plt.axis("off")
    plt.show()
Listing 3-64: The function to generate a DeepDream (by modifying Listing 3-61 and
combining it with Listings 3-59 and 3-63)
This function accepts as inputs the image (im), the index of the layer
whose activation is maximized by the DeepDreams algorithm
(layer_index), the iteration number (iter_num), and the step size (eta). The
rest of the code is sourced from Listings 3-59, 3-61, and 3-63.
When you call this function with
deepdream(im, layer_index=1, iter_num=100, eta=0.1)
you should get the DeepDream shown in Figure 3-26.

--- Strana 250 ---
Thanks to this refactoring of the code, next you can easily add new
functionalities, as you’ll do in the following sections.
Improving the DeepDreams Function with a Context Manager
You can now use a context manager for the hook. A context manager in
Python is a special construct that provides a clean way to automatically
allocate and release resources. It allows you to set up a temporary
context for your code, ensuring that resources are properly managed
and cleaned up after the code block is executed, typically using the with
statement.
To do so, write the Fwd_Hook class, as shown in Listing 3-65.
class Fwd_Hook():
    """Forward hook."""
    def __init__(self, layer):
        """Initialize forward hook."""
        self.hook = layer.register_forward_hook(self.hook_func)
    def hook_func(self, layer, input, output):
        """Save activations."""
        self.activations = output
    def __enter__(self, *args): 
        """Enter context management."""
     ➊ return self
 
    def __exit__(self, *args): 
        """Exit context management and remove hook."""
     ➋ self.hook.remove()
Listing 3-65: The class to context-manage the hook to the activation of a layer
When the Fwd_Hook class is initialized with the __init__() method, the
class registers a forward hook on the specified layer, which ensures that
the designated hook_func() method is called every time the layer
completes its forward pass. This hook method captures the output of

--- Strana 251 ---
the layer, storing it in the activations attribute for later use. The methods
__enter__() and __exit__() define the class as a context manager. When
entering the context (using a with statement), an instance of Fwd_Hook is
returned ➊, and upon exiting, the context manager ensures cleanup by
removing the hook ➋. This approach provides an elegant and Pythonic
way to temporarily attach and safely remove hooks.
To use this context manager, you need to modify the deepdream()
function as shown in Listing 3-66.
def deepdream(im, layer_index, iter_num=100, eta=0.1):
    --snip--
    im_tensor = image_to_tensor(im, mean, std)
    layer = model.features[layer_index]
    for _ in range(iter_num):
        with Fwd_Hook(layer) as fh:
            _ = model(im_tensor)
        loss = fh.activations.mean()
        loss.backward()
        --snip--
Listing 3-66: The function to generate a DeepDream with a context manager for the hook (by
modifying Listing 3-64)
Verify that this updated deepdream() function still works:
deepdream(im, layer_index=1, iter_num=100, eta=0.1)
This should again generate the DeepDream in Figure 3-26.
Creating DeepDreams from Deeper Layers
Now it’s time to play with your code and generate DeepDreams from
deeper layers:
for layer_index in [1, 3, 6, 8, 11, 13, 15, 18, 20, 22, 25, 27, 29]:
    deepdream(im, layer_index, iter_num=100, eta=0.1)

--- Strana 252 ---
Figure 3-27 showcases a collection of DeepDreams generated from
various layers of the neural network, visualizing the complex patterns
and features that each layer has learned to recognize.

--- Strana 253 ---

--- Strana 254 ---
Figure 3-27: DeepDreams maximizing the activation of deeper layers
In the early layers, such as layers 3 and 6, the patterns are simple and
repetitive, focusing on basic shapes and edges with vibrant colors. As
you progress to intermediate layers like 8 and 11, the complexity
increases, with the DeepDreams beginning to feature more-abstract
motifs that suggest a transition from simple to more-complex feature
recognition.
In the deeper layers, 18 and 29, the images become increasingly
surreal, with elaborate, dreamlike amalgamations of shapes and textures
that resemble eyes and biological forms, illustrating the network’s
higher-level feature detection that interprets the visual data in more-
abstract ways.
Using Multiple Layers at Once
You can also generate DeepDreams by maximizing the activation of
multiple layers at once. To do this, you need to capture the activations of
multiple layers, which requires modifications to the context manager
class, as shown in Listing 3-67.
class Fwd_Hooks():
    """Forward hooks."""
 
    def __init__(self, layers):
        """Initialize forward hooks."""
        self.hooks, self.activations_list = [], []
        for layer in layers:
         ➊ self.hooks.append(layer.register_forward_hook(self.hook_func))
    def hook_func(self, layer, input, output):
        """Save activations."""
        self.activations_list.append(output)
    --snip--
    def __exit__(self, *args): 
        """Exit context management and remove hooks."""

--- Strana 255 ---
        for hook in self.hooks:
         ➋ hook.remove()
Listing 3-67: The class to context-manage the hooks to the activations of multiple layers at
once (by modifying Listing 3-65)
This new context manager class contains, as attributes, lists of hooks
and activations, one for each layer. When the context manager is
initialized, a hook function is attached to each layer ➊ and, when the
context manager exits, all the functions are removed ➋.
Finally, modify the deepdream() function further to accept multiple
input layers, as shown in Listing 3-68.
def deepdream(im, layer_indices, iter_num=100, eta=.1):
    --snip--
    layers = [model.features[layer_index] for layer_index in layer_indices]
    for _ in range(iter_num):
     ➊ with Fwd_Hooks(layers) as fh:
            _ = model(im_tensor)
        losses = [activations.mean() for activations in fh.activations_list]
     ➋ loss = torch.stack(losses).sum()
        loss.backward()
        --snip--
        plt.title(f"DeepDream for Layers {layer_indices}")
        --snip--
Listing 3-68: The function to generate a DeepDream from multiple layers (by modifying
Listing 3-66)
This is the definitive version of the deepdream() function. It accepts as
input multiple layers’ indices and extracts the corresponding layers.
Then it uses the context manager for hooks in multiple layers ➊. The
loss is now calculated by summing up the losses for the activation of
each layer ➋.
Now you can get a DeepDream that maximizes feature activations
from multiple layers of VGG16 simultaneously:
deepdream(im, layer_indices=[1, 8, 11, 18, 25, 27, 29], iter_num=100, eta=0.1);

--- Strana 256 ---
This should generate the DeepDream in Figure 3-28.
Figure 3-28: The DeepDream maximizing the activation of multiple layers at once
This multilayered approach creates a densely packed tapestry of
features that vary in complexity. The image is a vibrant collage of
textures and patterns, with visual elements that range from the
geometric shapes found in the earliest layers to the more-complex,
almost biological structures reminiscent of eyes and organic forms that
emerge from the deeper layers. This visual complexity is a result of
targeting a combination of layers, each contributing its own learned
representations to the final image.
NOTE
Code Example 3-C, “Creating DeepDreams,” is available at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch03_CNN folder and then ec03_C_deepdream.
The deepdream.ipynb notebook provides a complete code example
that loads an image and the VGG16 pretrained neural network and
uses them to create DeepDreams.

--- Strana 257 ---
Project 3D: Transferring the Style of Images
In this last project of this chapter, you’ll explore neural style transfer,
which answers this question: How can the stylistic elements of one
image be imposed onto the content of another image while preserving
the original content’s structure?
For example, imagine you have a photograph (content image) and a
painting (style image). You want to re-create the photograph in the
unique artistic style of the painting. You can achieve this by using a deep
neural network trained to understand and identify various features in
images. During neural style transfer, you ask the neural network to keep
the large-scale structures from the photograph, but to paint them with
the textures and patterns you see in the painting.
As you’ve seen many times by now, a deep network comprises
multiple layers, each responsible for recognizing different levels of the
image’s details. The first layers might detect simple edges and textures
typically more related to the style. The last layers capture the larger-
scale complex structures that define the content. You can then instruct
the computer to minimize the difference between the content of your
photograph and the content recognized in a particular layer of the
network, while simultaneously minimizing the difference between the
style of your painting and the style recognized in other layers.
Through an iterative process of adjustments, the neural network
blends the content and the style, keeping the essential elements of the
photograph’s structure while casting it in the colors, brush strokes, and
textures of the painting, creating a hybrid image that looks like a
painted version of the photograph. You’ll see how this works in more
detail in the rest of this project. You’ll learn how to apply the texture of
the Trencadís Lizard (created by Antoni Gaudí in Barcelona’s Parc
Güell) to a microscopic image of the neural tissue of a fruit fly larva.
Before you begin this project, you should have a solid understanding
of the concepts introduced in Projects 3A and 3C, particularly regarding
the use of hooks and context managers to access the activations of
layers.

--- Strana 258 ---
Loading the Content and Style Images
Start by loading the content image:
from PIL import Image
content = (Image.open("neuraltissue_with_colorlabels.png").convert("RGB")
           .crop((100, 170, 100 + 256, 170 + 256)))
This is the same image you used in Project 3C to generate
DeepDreams. The only difference is that you are now cropping a square
of 256×256 pixels from the image.
Then plot this crop:
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
plt.imshow(content)
plt.axis("off")
plt.show()
The content image is shown on the left side of Figure 3-29.
Figure 3-29: The content (left) and style (right) images for the neural style transfer

--- Strana 259 ---
Next, load the image you’ll use for the style. You’ll use a photograph
of a detail of Gaudí’s lizard, which is in the lizard.png image file:
style = Image.open("lizard.png").convert("RGB").resize((256, 256))
This loads the style image, converts it to RGB, and finally resizes it to
256×256 pixels.
You can then plot the style image:
plt.imshow(style)
plt.axis("off")
plt.show()
The resulting image is shown on the right side of Figure 3-29.
Loading a Pretrained Neural Network
Now you need to import a pretrained neural network. As with the
Deep-Dreams in Project 3C, you’ll import the VGG16 model and
freeze its weights with Listing 3-57. The printout with the architecture
of the VGG16 model is in Listing 3-58. Furthermore, since this is a
pretrained model, it needs normalization, which is again the same as in
Project 3C (Listing 3-59).
Implementing Style Transfer
To implement style transfer, you’ll reuse several tools developed already
for the DeepDreams in Project 3C. In particular, you’ll reuse the
Fwd_Hooks class (Listing 3-67) and the image_to_tensor() and tensor_to_image()
functions (Listings 3-60 and 3-62).
Start by implementing the additional gram() function to calculate the
Gram matrix between all the activations of a specific layer, as shown in
Listing 3-69.
from torch import bmm
def gram(tensor):
    """Gram matrix."""
 ➊ batch_size, num_channels, height, width = tensor.size()

--- Strana 260 ---
 ➋ features = tensor.view(batch_size, num_channels, height * width)
    gram_matrix = bmm(features, features.transpose(1, 2)) / (height * width)
    return gram_matrix
Listing 3-69: The function to calculate the Gram matrix
The Gram matrix represents the correlations between different
feature maps (or channels) of a convolutional layer’s output. The gram()
function unpacks the dimensions of the input tensor ➊. Then gram()
reshapes the tensor into a 2D matrix ➋ (the batch_size will be equal to 1).
Finally, the function computes the Gram matrix as the product of the
matrix by its transpose, normalizing it by the number of elements in
each feature map (height * width).
You can implement the style transfer with the style_transfer()
function in Listing 3-70, which is quite similar in structure to the
deepdream() function in Listing 3-68.
def style_transfer(image, content, style, content_layers, style_layers, 
                   lr=1, iter_num=100, beta=1e3):
    """Perform style transfer."""
    mean = np.array([0.485, 0.456, 0.406], dtype=np.float32)
    std = np.array([0.229, 0.224, 0.225], dtype=np.float32)
    image_tensor = image_to_tensor(image, mean, std)
    with Fwd_Hooks(content_layers) as fh:
        _ = model(image_to_tensor(content, mean, std))
 ➊ con_activ_list = [activ.detach() for activ in fh.activations_list]
    with Fwd_Hooks(style_layers) as fh:
        _ = model(image_to_tensor(style, mean, std))
 ➋ target_gram_list = [gram(activ.detach()) for activ in fh.activations_list]
    optimizer = torch.optim.LBFGS([image_tensor], lr=lr)
    mse_loss = torch.nn.MSELoss(reduction="sum")
    def closure():
        """Closure function for the optimizer."""

--- Strana 261 ---
        --snip--
        return total_loss
    for i in range(iter_num):
        print(f"iteration {i}")
     ➌ optimizer.step(closure)
     
        plt.imshow(tensor_to_image(image_tensor, mean, std))
        plt.title(f"Iteration {i}")
        plt.axis("off")
        plt.show()
Listing 3-70: The function for implementing style transfer
This function transforms the input image into a PyTorch tensor
with the image_to_tensor() function, normalizing the image with the
predefined mean and standard deviation values. Then forward hooks are
used within context managers to capture content activations from
specified layers when the content image is passed through the model ➊,
and to calculate the Gram matrix representations of style activations
when the style image is processed ➋.
As optimizer, this code uses the Limited-memory Broyden-Fletcher-
Goldfarb-Shanno (L-BFGS) algorithm because of its efficiency in
handling the large number of variables involved in style transfer. This
optimizer is responsible for iteratively tweaking the image tensor to
minimize the loss function that measures the difference between the
content and style features of the current image and the desired targets.
The closure() function is essential in this context because L-BFGS
requires the reevaluation of the loss within each iteration to update the
weights, and this function provides the mechanism to recalculate the
loss and its gradients every time the optimizer takes a step, as you’ll see
in detail in Listing 3-71.
In each interaction, after the optimization step ➌, the current state
of the image tensor is converted back to an image via the
tensor_to_image() function and displayed, allowing for visually tracking the
style-transfer process.

--- Strana 262 ---
Now, add the necessary closure() function to the style_transfer()
function provided in Listing 3-71.
def style_transfer(...):
    --snip--
    mse_loss = torch.nn.MSELoss(reduction="sum")
    def closure():
        """Closure function for the optimizer."""
     ➊ optimizer.zero_grad()
        with Fwd_Hooks(content_layers) as fh:
            _ = model(image_tensor)
        im_con_activ_list = fh.activations_list
        content_loss = 0
        for im_con_activ, con_activ in zip(im_con_activ_list, con_activ_list):
            num_feats = im_con_activ.shape[1]
         ➋ content_loss += mse_loss(im_con_activ, con_activ) / num_feats ** 2
     ➌ content_loss = content_loss / len(im_con_activ_list)
        with Fwd_Hooks(style_layers) as fh:
            _ = model(image_tensor)
     ➍ im_gram_list = [gram(activ) for activ in fh.activations_list]
        style_loss = 0
        for im_gram, target_gram in zip(im_gram_list, target_gram_list):
            num_feats = im_gram.shape[1]
         ➎ style_loss += mse_loss(im_gram, target_gram) / num_feats ** 2
     ➏ style_loss = style_loss / len(im_gram_list)
        print(f"content_loss={content_loss} style_loss={style_loss}")
     ➐ total_loss = content_loss + beta * style_loss
     ➑ total_loss.backward()

--- Strana 263 ---
        return total_loss
    --snip--
Listing 3-71: The closure function for the optimizer of the style transfer (by modifying
Listing 3-70)
This closure function is evaluated several times during each step of
the L-BFGS optimization loop to compute the gradient of the loss
function and provide it to the optimizer. This function performs the
following operations:
1. Resets the optimizer’s gradients to 0 ➊. This is necessary to
prevent the accumulation of gradients from multiple backward
passes.
2. Computes the content loss by comparing the activations from the
current image tensor to those from the original content image.
The function computes the MSE loss between each
corresponding set of activations and then normalizes it by the
number of features squared ➋. The total content loss is the
average of these losses over all content layers ➌.
3. Calculates the style loss in a similar way, but instead of using the
raw activations, it uses the Gram matrices of the activations to
capture the style information ➍. The function calculates the
MSE loss between the Gram matrix of the current image tensor
and the Gram matrix of the style image, normalizes the loss by
the number of elements in the Gram matrix squared ➎, and
averages over all style layers ➏.
4. Combines the content loss and style loss to form the total loss ➐,
with the style loss being scaled by the beta regularization factor to
balance the two types of losses.
5. Calls the backward() method on the total loss ➑, which computes
the gradient of the loss function with respect to the image tensor.
6. Returns the total loss.
Creating an Image in Gaudí’s Style

--- Strana 264 ---
You are finally ready to create a new version of the neural tissue image
in Gaudí’s style. You can do this with the content image as a starting
point, using Listing 3-72.
style_transfer(
    image=content, content=content, style=style,
    content_layers=[model.features[l] for l in [14]],
    style_layers=[model.features[l] for l in [0, 2, 5, 7, 10]],
    lr=1, iter_num=50, beta=1e5,
)
Listing 3-72: Transforming the style of an image
This code transforms the original content image into an image that
retains the content seen by the 14th VGG16 layer but features the style
of the style image seen by layers 0, 2, 5, 7, and 10 of VGG16.
Figure 3-30 shows the resulting style images in the first and last
iterations.
Figure 3-30: The progression of the style transfer

--- Strana 265 ---
As the iterations proceed, the output image becomes increasingly
similar in style to Gaudí’s lizard.
NOTE
Code Example 3-D, “Transferring Image Styles,” is available at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate 
to 
the 
Ch03_CNN 
folder 
and 
then
ec03_D_style_transfer. The style_transfer.ipynb notebook provides
a complete code example that loads the content image, the style image,
and the VGG16 pretrained neural network, and uses them to transfer
the style to the image.
Summary
In this chapter, you learned to use convolutional neural networks, which
are essential tools for image analysis. You began by exploring the
concept of convolution and its application to both 1D and 2D data.
Then you continued with the practical implementation of convolutional
neural networks, using PyTorch. You gained hands-on experience in
constructing convolutional layers, integrating ReLU activation
functions, and mastering pooling and upsampling techniques, all crucial
for processing and transforming images. The inclusion of dense layers
and their role in image classification further enriched your
understanding.
In Project 3A, you applied convolutional neural networks to the task
of classifying malaria-infected blood smears. This project highlighted
the medical application of convolutional neural networks, involving
loading and preprocessing complex datasets, deploying both dense and
convolutional neural networks, and visualizing the convolutional filters
and layer activations to gain some understanding of the network’s
decision-making process.
In Project 3B, you ventured into video analysis, using convolutional
neural networks to localize microscopic particles in video data. This
project highlighted the critical importance of having a reliable ground

--- Strana 266 ---
truth for neural network training. To achieve this, you engaged in the
demanding task of manually annotating the particle images, providing
the network with ground-truth labels. You also explored the route of
generating simulated particle images, offering an alternative means of
creating a robust training dataset.
Project 3C introduced you to the artistic side of convolutional
neural networks with the creation of DeepDreams. This project
illustrated the network’s ability to enhance and alter images, revealing
the patterns learned by the network.
Project 3D explored the fascinating world of neural style transfer.
You learned to merge the content of one image with the style of
another, further showcasing the creative potential of convolutional
neural networks.
Looking forward, this knowledge serves as a stepping stone to the
next chapters, where you’ll delve deeper into advanced neural network
architectures and techniques. Your newly acquired understanding of
convolutional neural networks paves the way for exploring encoder-
decoders for latent space manipulation, U-Nets for image
transformation, and even generative adversarial networks and diffusion
models for image synthesis.
Seminal Works and Further Reading
Yann LeCun et al. introduced the LeNet-5 architecture in “Gradient-
Based Learning Applied to Document Recognition,” published in 1998
in Proceedings of the IEEE (volume 86, pages 2,278–2,324). LeNet-5
demonstrated that back-propagation could be effectively used to train
convolutional neural networks, providing one of the first successful
applications of convolutional neural networks for image recognition.
A significant leap came with “ImageNet Classification with Deep
Convolutional Neural Networks” by Alex Krizhevsky et al., published in
2012 in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS,
volume 25). This work introduced AlexNet, which won the 2012
ImageNet competition by a large margin, demonstrating the power of
deeper convolutional architectures combined with GPU acceleration

--- Strana 267 ---
for training large models. AlexNet’s success was a major catalyst for the
deep learning revolution in computer vision.
“Very Deep Convolutional Networks for Large-Scale Image
Recognition” by Karen Simonyan and Andrew Zisserman, published in
2014 on arXiv (article number 1409.1556) and presented at the 2015
International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR),
introduced the VGG network. This architecture showed that increasing
the depth of convolutional neural networks by using smaller
convolutional filters could yield significant improvements in image-
classification accuracy.
Christian Szegedy et al. introduced the Inception architecture (also
known as GoogLeNet) in 2015 in “Going Deeper with Convolutions,”
published in Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (CVPR, pages 1–9). Inception utilized multiple filter
sizes at each layer, allowing for deeper networks while maintaining
computational efficiency.
The introduction of the ResNet architecture in “Deep Residual
Learning for Image Recognition” by Kaiming He et al., published in
2016 in Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR, pages 770–778), addressed the vanishing gradient
problem in deep networks by using residual connections. This allowed
for the successful training of very deep networks, resulting in
breakthrough performance in image classification and numerous other
computer vision tasks.
Project 3B is based on “Digital Video Microscopy Enhanced by
Deep Learning” by Saga Helgadottir et al., published in Optica (volume
6, pages 506–513). This work uses convolutional neural networks to
accurately measure the position of microscopic particles.
Project 3D is inspired by “Image Style Transfer Using
Convolutional Neural Networks” by Leon A. Gatys et al., published in
2016 in Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR, pages 2,414–2,423). The authors introduced an
artistic algorithm that was able to separate and recombine the image
content and style of natural images.

--- Strana 268 ---
CHALLENGE PROJECTS
3-1: Advanced medical image classification  Implement a
convolutional neural network to classify medical images beyond
the malaria-infected blood smears. Choose a medical imaging
dataset from a Kaggle challenge to classify diseases or conditions
(for example, the Chest CT-Scan Images dataset or the COVID-
19 Chest CT Image Augmentation GAN dataset). Compare your
results to those of the challenge participants.
3-2: Traffic sign recognition  Develop a convolutional neural
network to recognize and classify traffic signs from real-world
images. You can use the German Traffic Sign Recognition
Benchmark (GTSRB) dataset. Create a model that can accurately
identify various traffic signs from multiple angles, distances, and
lighting conditions. Compare the performance of your model
against traditional image-recognition methods.
3-3: Artistic style transfer with custom styles  Extend the
neural style transfer project to explore how well your model can
adapt to various styles and how it handles style transfer with
complex and abstract images.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 269 ---
4
ENHANCING, GENERATING, AND
ANALYZING DATA WITH AUTOENCODERS
In this chapter, you’ll start exploring unsupervised learning with neural
networks, focusing on representation learning and generative modeling.
Unlike supervised learning, which requires labeled data, unsupervised
learning trains models with unlabeled data, allowing the neural network
to discover hidden patterns, structures, or relationships within the data
on its own. At the heart of this exploration lies the encoder-decoder
architecture.
You’ll learn how the encoder network compresses data into a dense
latent representation, and how the decoder network transforms this
latent representation into a new form of the data. In some cases, you can
even use the encoder-decoder as an autoencoder, which transforms the
input data into itself with the ultimate goal of exploring the latent
representation. As you will see in this chapter, this can be extremely
powerful.
You’ll apply encoder-decoders for denoising tasks, which have real-
world applications such as enhancing photos taken in low-light
conditions, restoring old or damaged photographs, and improving the
quality of medical imaging. You’ll discover how to use these encoder-

--- Strana 270 ---
decoder networks to clean corrupted images, learning both the practical
utility and the underlying principles of latent space manipulation.
Then you’ll explore more-advanced applications by using
autoencoders to generate more-structured latent representations. You’ll
generate new digits for the MNIST dataset and create smooth
transitions between fashion items in the Fashion-MNIST dataset. You’ll
also use autoencoders to detect anomalies, distinguishing between
normal and abnormal heartbeats.
Understanding Encoder-Decoders
Encoder-decoder architectures are foundational components in neural
networks, widely used in many applications for their ability to
transform, reconstruct, and generate data.
The encoder-decoder is a neural network architecture consisting of
two main parts: the encoder and the decoder. The encoder network
compresses the input data into a low-dimensional latent representation,
while the decoder network reconstructs the output from this
representation. You can use an encoder-decoder for various applications:
data transformation, data reconstruction, feature extraction from the
latent space, and data generation.
Figure 4-1 shows a diagram of an encoder-decoder.
Figure 4-1: An encoder-decoder architecture

--- Strana 271 ---
In their most common, supervised application, the encoder and
decoder are trained to transform their inputs into desired outputs. You’ll
get a more in-depth look at this application in the first example of this
chapter and in the context of U-Nets in Chapter 5. Typically, the input
and output data are of the same type—for example, image-to-image or
sequence-to-sequence transformations.
The target, or the desired output of the neural network, might be
equal to the input itself, as in the case of autoencoders. While this
practice might seem pointless, it’s useful because the decoder has to
rebuild the input data from scratch by using what squeezes through the
bottleneck of the latent space. This is a more-compact form of the
input. Essentially, the encoder squishes down the input data, and the
decoder tries to bring it back to its original form. This technique is
often used to filter, denoise, and compress images and audio signals.
You can also take advantage of the encoder to compress the input
data into a lower-dimensional representation while preserving the most
important features. This permits you to extract useful features from the
input data that can be used for downstream tasks.
Additionally, the latent space itself can serve as a powerful tool to
characterize the input’s features, providing an understanding of the
data’s underlying structure. For example, in data classification tasks, the
latent space can reveal distinct clusters corresponding to different
classes, making it easier to identify and separate different types of data.
Finally, the latent space can be harnessed through the decoder to
generate new data, showcasing its versatility in both analysis and
synthesis of information.
Implementing a Denoising Encoder-Decoder
In this section, you’ll learn how to implement a denoising encoder-decoder
to clean a noisy image. Along the way, you’ll get a demonstration of this
powerful tool’s ability to enhance data quality and uncover the
underlying signal amid noise.
Generating the Data

--- Strana 272 ---
Let’s start by generating a clean image of a particle observed through a
microscope and then create a noisy version of the same image, which
you’ll eventually denoise with your encoder-decoder.
Start by defining a spherical particle with Listing 4-1.
import deeptrack as dt
import numpy as np
particle = dt.Sphere(
    position=np.array([0.5, 0.5]) * 64, position_unit="pixel",
    radius=500 * dt.units.nm, refractive_index=1.45 + 0.02j,
)
Listing 4-1: Defining a spherical particle
This code creates an object that represents a microscopic spherical
particle, defining its position within the frame measured in pixels, its
radius, and its complex refractive index.
Now, define the properties of the microscope used to image the
particle with Listing 4-2.
brightfield_microscope = dt.Brightfield(
    wavelength=500 * dt.units.nm, NA=1.0, resolution=1 * dt.units.um, 
    magnification=10, refractive_index_medium=1.33,
    output_region=(0, 0, 64, 64),
)
Listing 4-2: Defining the microscope to observe the particle
This code defines a bright-field microscope that illuminates the
sample with a monochromatic light (wavelength 500 nm), with
numerical aperture 1.0, resolution 1 micrometer, and 10× magnification.
The code also defines the refractive index of the medium where the
particle is immersed (1.33, corresponding to water), and the position
and size of the camera sensor in pixels (output_region).
Next, create the image of the particle as observed through the
microscope with Listing 4-3.

--- Strana 273 ---
illuminated_sample = brightfield_microscope(particle)
Listing 4-3: Obtaining the image of the microscopic particle
This code passes particle to brightfield_microscope, generating the
image as illuminated_sample.
Before creating a noisy version, generate a clean image of the
particle, which will be the target of the denoising encoder-decoder, with
Listing 4-4.
import torch
clean_particle = (illuminated_sample >> dt.NormalizeMinMax()
                  >> dt.MoveAxis(2, 0) 
                  >> dt.pytorch.ToTensor(dtype=torch.float))
Listing 4-4: Simulating the clean image of the particle
This code takes an image of the particle, rescales it to the range
from 0 to 1 with NormalizeMinMax, moves the color dimension to the first
position as expected by PyTorch with MoveAxis, and transforms the image
into a PyTorch tensor.
Then create the noisy version of the particle image with Listing 4-5.
noise = dt.Poisson(snr=lambda: 2.0 + np.random.rand())
noisy_particle = (illuminated_sample >> noise >> dt.NormalizeMinMax()
                  >> dt.MoveAxis(2, 0) 
                  >> dt.pytorch.ToTensor(dtype=torch.float))
Listing 4-5: Simulating the noisy image of the particle (by modifying Listing 4-4)
This code introduces Poisson noise to simulate a common type of
disturbance encountered in imaging, particularly in low-light conditions
or with scientific instruments like microscopes and telescopes. Poisson
noise, or shot noise, arises naturally when the variation in the number of
detected photons follows a Poisson distribution. This noise is set to have
an SNR of 2 to 3, which is a strong noise level. Then the code takes the
very same image of the particle and adds the noise to it.

--- Strana 274 ---
Finally, combine noisy_particle and clean_particle into a single
pipeline, as shown in Listing 4-6.
pip = noisy_particle & clean_particle
Listing 4-6: Combining the noisy and clean particle images into a single simulation pipeline
You can then write the plot_image() function shown in Listing 4-7.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
def plot_image(title, image):
    """Plot a grayscale image with a title."""
    plt.imshow(image, cmap="gray")
    plt.title(title, fontsize=30)
    plt.axis("off")
    plt.show()
Listing 4-7: The function to plot a particle image
Use this function to plot five examples of the noisy and clean
particle images, as shown in Listing 4-8.
for i in range(5):
    input, target = pip.update().resolve()
    plot_image(f"Input Image {i}", input.permute(1, 2, 0))
    plot_image(f"Target Image {i}", target.permute(1, 2, 0))
Listing 4-8: Plotting the noisy and corresponding clean particle images
The input and target images are permuted to move the color
dimension to the last position, as expected by Matplotlib. This should
plot images similar to those shown in Figure 4-2.

--- Strana 275 ---
Figure 4-2: The noisy (top) and corresponding clean (bottom) simulated particle images
Note that the noisy input images in the top row are different from
one another and indeed very noisy, while the corresponding clean target
images in the bottom row are always the same image.
Creating a Simulated Dataset
Now you need to create a PyTorch dataset to be able to use the pipeline
to generate images for the training process. You can do this by
implementing the SimulatedDataset class, as shown in Listing 4-9.
class SimulatedDataset(torch.utils.data.Dataset):
    """Simulated dataset generating pairs of noisy and clean images."""
    def __init__(self, pip, buffer_size, replace=0):
        """Initialize the dataset."""
        self.pip, self.replace = pip, replace
        self.images = [pip.update().resolve() for _ in range(buffer_size)]
    def __len__(self):
        """Return the size of the image buffer."""
        return len(self.images)
    def __getitem__(self, idx):

--- Strana 276 ---
        """Retrieve a noisy-clean image pair from the dataset."""
     ➊ if np.random.rand() < self.replace:
        ➋ self.images[idx] = self.pip.update().resolve()
        image_pair = self.images[idx]
        noisy_image, clean_image = image_pair[0], image_pair[1]
        return noisy_image, clean_image
Listing 4-9: The simulated dataset class to generate the data for training the denoising
encoder-decoder
This class is instantiated with the pip pipeline to generate image
pairs, a buffer size determining the number of pre-calculated images
held in memory, and a replace parameter determining the probability of
these images being replaced. Upon initialization, SimulatedDataset fills the
buffer (self.images) with noisy-clean image pairs.
When a pair is requested, the __getitem__() method determines
whether to update the image pair in the buffer ➋ stochastically with
probability replace ➊. Then the method returns the noisy and clean
images. Regularly updating the stored images ensures that your training
data remains diverse and representative of a broad range of noise
patterns, preventing overfitting.
You can now use SimulatedDataset as shown in Listing 4-10.
dataset = SimulatedDataset(pip, buffer_size=256, replace=0.1)
loader = torch.utils.data.DataLoader(dataset, batch_size=8, shuffle=True)
Listing 4-10: Creating the dataset and the data loader
This code creates the dataset, setting the replace rate to 10 percent
and the data loader to a batch of 8.
Defining and Training the Encoder-Decoder
With your dataset prepared, the next step is to define and train the
encoder-decoder model that will learn to denoise the images.
Start by defining the encoder-decoder, using Listing 4-11.
import deeplay as dl

--- Strana 277 ---
encoderdecoder = dl.ConvolutionalEncoderDecoder2d(
    in_channels=1, encoder_channels=[16, 16], out_channels=1,
)
Listing 4-11: Defining the encoder-decoder
This code defines an encoder-decoder that accepts as input an image
with a single color channel (in_channels=1). The encoder processes the
image with two layers (encoder_channels=[16, 16]), each with 16
convolutional filters and a max pooling layer that reduces the image
dimensions by a factor of 2. The decoder, designed to mirror the
encoder, also consists of two stages, each with 16 convolutional filters
and an upsampling layer that increases the image dimensions by a factor
of 2.
Finally, the network produces an output with a single color channel
(out_channels=1). This last layer has a sigmoid activation function to
ensure that the output values fall from 0 to 1. You can verify the details
of this encoder-decoder by using print(encoderdecoder) to print out its
structure.
Now compile this encoder-decoder as shown in Listing 4-12.
regressor_template = dl.Regressor(
    model=encoderdecoder, loss=torch.nn.L1Loss(), optimizer=dl.Adam(),
)
ed = regressor_template.create()
Listing 4-12: Compiling the encoder-decoder
This code compiles the encoder-decoder as a regressor, using an L1
loss and the Adam optimizer, and then creates a concrete instance of the
regressor. You can again print out the details with print(ed).
Finally, train your encoder-decoder with Listing 4-13.
ed_trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=150, accelerator="auto")
ed_trainer.fit(ed, loader)
Listing 4-13: Training the encoder-decoder
This code trains the encoder-decoder for 150 epochs.

--- Strana 278 ---
Denoising the Image
Now that you’ve trained your encoder-decoder, it’s time to test its
denoising capabilities with Listing 4-14.
for i in range(5):
    input, target = pip.update().resolve()
    predicted = ed(input.unsqueeze(0)).detach()
 
    plot_image(f"Input Image {i}", input[0, :, :])
    plot_image(f"Target Image {i}", target[0, :, :])
    plot_image(f"Predicted Image {i}", predicted[0, 0, :, :])
Listing 4-14: Denoising an image with the trained encoder-decoder
This code plots five example sets of input, target, and predicted
images. When plotting the images, the code selects the single color
channel for the input and target images, while it selects the first (and
only) image in the batch and the only color channel for the predicted
image.
Figure 4-3 shows examples of the resulting images.

--- Strana 279 ---
Figure 4-3: The input (top), target (middle), and predicted (bottom) particle images
The noisy input images (top row) are transformed by the encoder-
decoder into images (bottom row) that closely resemble the target
images (middle row).
You can assess the quality of the denoising by comparing the
predicted images to the targets, as you can tell that the algorithm has
effectively filtered out the noise and recovered the essential features
present in the target images. However, the high-frequency diffraction
rings around the target images are only partly reproduced, and some
noise seems to remain in the background. This shows that while the
model performs well in general, there is still room for improvement.
EXERCISE

--- Strana 280 ---
4-1:  Vary the hyperparameters of the encoder-decoder (the
number of layers and filters) and its training (the number of
samples or epochs). Explore how this affects the denoising
performance and the model’s ability to capture the finer details in
the images.
Checking for Absence of Mode Collapse
You may have already observed that, while the results appear good, the
network might not be truly denoising the input images; it might just be
generating the output while completely neglecting the input. In fact, the
signal in the input image is always the same, with only the noise
changing.
Such a scenario can lead to mode collapse: The neural network opts
for a simplistic, repetitive solution instead of learning to actually
perform the task. Preventing mode collapse is essential in order to
ensure that the network learns to generalize and truly understand the
denoising process rather than taking shortcuts to a seemingly correct
output.
In this case, you can make a simple test to verify that the neural
network isn’t in mode collapse. Use Listing 4-15 to ask the network to
denoise a blank sample containing only noise and no particle image.
➊ blank = brightfield_microscope(particle ^ 0)
   blank_pip = (blank >> noise >> dt.NormalizeMinMax() >> dt.MoveAxis(2, 0)
                >> dt.pytorch.ToTensor(dtype=torch.float))
   for i in range(5):
       blank_image = blank_pip.update().resolve()
       blank_predicted = ed(blank_image.unsqueeze(0)).detach()
    
       plot_image(f"Input Image {i}", blank_image[0, :, :])
       plot_image(f"Predicted Image {i}", blank_predicted[0, 0, :, :])
Listing 4-15: Testing the trained encoder-decoder with a blank image

--- Strana 281 ---
This code uses particle ^ 0 ➊ to add zero particles to each image,
obtaining as a result blank images that contain only noise. Figure 4-4
shows the outcome of this test.
Figure 4-4: The blank input (top) and denoised (bottom) images
You can see the result (bottom row) of using the trained network to
de-noise blank images containing only noise (top row). The absence of a
particle in the output demonstrates that the network isn’t in mode
collapse. Instead, it’s searching for the response of the particle before re-
creating its denoised version. If the network were in mode collapse,
you’d see the same particle image reproduced in the output regardless
of the input, indicating that the network has memorized the training
data rather than learning to generalize from it.
Checking Generalization Capabilities
To understand how well the trained network is able to generalize to new
images, you can check whether the encoder-decoder can denoise images
of particles located at different positions and with different radii. You
can do this with Listing 4-16.
diverse_particle = dt.Sphere(
 ➊ position=lambda: np.array([0.2, 0.2] + np.random.rand(2) * 0.6) * 64, 
 ➋ radius=lambda: 500 * dt.units.nm * (1 + np.random.rand()),

--- Strana 282 ---
   position_unit="pixel", refractive_index=1.45 + 0.02j,
)
diverse_illuminated_sample = brightfield_microscope(diverse_particle)
diverse_clean_particle = (diverse_illuminated_sample
                          >> dt.NormalizeMinMax() >> dt.MoveAxis(2, 0)
                          >> dt.pytorch.ToTensor(dtype=torch.float))
diverse_noisy_particle = (diverse_illuminated_sample >> noise 
                          >> dt.NormalizeMinMax() >> dt.MoveAxis(2, 0)
                          >> dt.pytorch.ToTensor(dtype=torch.float))
diverse_pip = diverse_noisy_particle & diverse_clean_particle
Listing 4-16: Defining a pipeline generating images of particles with varying positions and
radii (by modifying Listings 4-1, 4-3, 4-4, 4-5, and 4-6)
This code randomizes the particle position around the center of the
image frame ➊, and its radius from 0.5 to 1 micrometers ➋.
You can then plot some image examples with Listing 4-17.
for i in range(5):
    diverse_input, diverse_target = diverse_pip.update().resolve()
    diverse_predicted = ed(diverse_input.unsqueeze(0)).detach()
     
    plot_image(f"Input Image {i}", diverse_input[0, :, :])
    plot_image(f"Target Image {i}", diverse_target[0, :, :])
    plot_image(f"Predicted Image {i}", diverse_predicted[0, 0, :, :])
Listing 4-17: Denoising images of diverse particles with the trained encoder-decoder (by
modifying Listing 4-14)
This code should generate images similar to those shown in Figure
4-5.

--- Strana 283 ---
Figure 4-5: The input (top), target (middle), and predicted (bottom) images for off-center
particles with different radii
Remarkably, since you’ve trained the encoder-decoder with only one
image of a centered particle, the encoder-decoder is able to detect that
the new images have something different and attempts to make a
prediction. However, the encoder-decoder struggles to reproduce the
denoised images since it hasn’t learned to draw particles located off-
center. Instead, it tends to generate clusters of particles whenever the
particle is off-center or larger than the training particle.
Retraining
You can improve the generalization capabilities of the encoder-decoder
by retraining it, using the diverse_pip pipeline shown in Listing 4-18.
diverse_dataset = SimulatedDataset(diverse_pip, buffer_size=256, replace=0.1)
diverse_loader = torch.utils.data.DataLoader(diverse_dataset, batch_size=8, 
                                             shuffle=True)

--- Strana 284 ---
diverse_ed = regressor_template.create()
diverse_ed_trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=150, accelerator="auto")
diverse_ed_trainer.fit(diverse_ed, diverse_loader)
Listing 4-18: Training using the dataset with varying parameters (by modifying Listings 4-10,
4-12, and 4-13)
This augments the training data to include particles that are shifted
off-center and with larger radii.
You can plot the resulting images with Listing 4-19.
for i in range(5):
    diverse_input, diverse_target = diverse_pip.update().resolve()
    diverse_predicted = diverse_ed(diverse_input.unsqueeze(0)).detach()
    --snip--
Listing 4-19: Plotting the images after improved training (by modifying Listing 4-17)
This code should generate images similar to those shown in Figure
4-6.

--- Strana 285 ---
Figure 4-6: The input (top), target (middle), and predicted (bottom) images for the encoder-
decoder trained on diverse particle images
Now the predicted images (bottom row) obtained from the noisy
input images (top row) are much better approximations of the target
images (middle row). At least, the size and location appear correct.
NOTE
Code Example 4-1, “Denoising Images with an Encoder-Decoder,” is
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch04_AE folder and then ec04_1_denoising. The
denoising.ipynb notebook provides a complete code example that
generates noisy bright-field microscopy images of particles, trains an
encoder-decoder to denoise them, and visualizes the results.

--- Strana 286 ---
EXERCISES
4-2:  Increase the number of particles in the images and
determine how this affects the performance of the encoder-
decoder.
4-3:  Alter the replacement rate and see how this affects the
training.
4-4:  While the size and location of the denoised particle appear
correct, the high-frequency diffraction rings around it are still
missing. Try to address this by increasing the number of layers and
the number of filters per layer (try, for example, setting
encoder_channels=[32, 64, 128]).
Project 4A: Generating Images with Variational
Autoencoders
This project will introduce you to variational autoencoders. These
powerful generative models excel in two tasks: compression and
generation. First, you’ll learn how this model encodes data into a
compressed latent space, effectively capturing the essence of the input in
a more manageable form. Then you’ll explore the generative capability
of variational autoencoders, using the information encoded in the latent
space to generate new images that closely mirror the original dataset.
By working with the MNIST dataset of handwritten digits, you’ll
see firsthand how variational autoencoders can compress and
reconstruct these images as well as generate entirely new digits. This
capability is crucial for applications such as data augmentation, where
generating new samples can help improve the performance of machine
learning models, and anomaly detection, where understanding the latent
space can reveal outliers.

--- Strana 287 ---
Understanding Variational Autoencoders
Standard autoencoders work by compressing an input into a latent space
representation and then reconstructing the input from this compressed
form. Although this process is efficient for tasks such as dimensionality
reduction and feature learning, it’s strictly deterministic and leaves no
room for randomness or variation in the output once trained. The
encoding-decoding pathway ensures a close match between the original
and reconstructed data, but it inherently lacks the ability to introduce
novelty or variation beyond what is present in the training data.
In contrast, variational autoencoders introduce a probabilistic flavor
to the encoding process. Figure 4-7 illustrates the architecture of a
variational autoencoder; the Gaussian sampling of the latent space
representation underscores the difference from standard autoencoders.
Figure 4-7: The variational autoencoder architecture
A variational autoencoder encodes each input not just as a single
point in the latent space, but as a distribution characterized by a mean
and a variance. Then, during the decoding phase, the variational
autoencoder samples a point in the latent space from this distribution,
leading to the generation of an output that isn’t a direct replica of the
input data.
By introducing an element of randomness, this sampling process
ensures that the latent space is utilized more efficiently, promoting
diversity and continuity among the generated images. During training,
this approach encourages the variational autoencoder to learn an

--- Strana 288 ---
accurate representation of the data, while also understanding and
capturing the underlying variability within the dataset. As a result, the
reconstructed images retain high fidelity to the originals, and the
generated images exhibit a rich variety, demonstrating the model’s
ability to generalize and create novel instances beyond mere
reconstruction.
The training process of a variational autoencoder balances two
competing objectives through its loss function. This function integrates
a reconstruction term and a regularization term. The reconstruction term
aims to enhance the model’s ability to accurately reconstruct the input
images. Its role is to ensure that the decoded outputs closely match the
original inputs, thus preserving the detailed characteristics of the
dataset. This is important because accurately reconstructing the input
data ensures that the latent space representation retains its essential
features.
On the other hand, the regularization term usually uses Kullback–
Leibler (KL) divergence, which is a measure of how one probability
distribution diverges from a second probability distribution. In the
context of variational autoencoders, the regularization term encourages
the distributions of latent variables to be as close as possible to the
target distribution, typically a Gaussian distribution. This ensures that
the latent space is well organized and continuous, which allows for
smooth interpolation between points in the latent space. As a result, the
variational autoencoder can generate coherent and realistic new data
points by sampling from this latent space.
The interplay between these two terms in the loss function can be
imagined as a repulsive force and an attractive force. The repulsive force
emanates from the reconstruction loss (which spreads the data
representations throughout the latent space, capturing the diverse
features of the data). The attractive force is derived from the KL
divergence (which acts like a magnet, pulling these representations
toward a normative structure, instilling continuity and order within the
latent space). This dynamic tension facilitates the training of a
variational autoencoder that generates high-fidelity reconstructions (just
like a standard autoencoder), while also enabling smooth and

--- Strana 289 ---
meaningful interpolation and generation of new data points (which is
not guaranteed for standard autoencoders).
The relative magnitude between the two loss terms is critical for
effective training. Therefore, in certain scenarios, you may have to
adjust the regularization term by a scaling factor. Without proper
scaling, the KL divergence can cause the network to underuse its
capacity, focusing on only a few latent variables for generating new data.
Loading the MNIST Dataset
In this project, you’ll use the MNIST dataset, already introduced in
Project 1A. If you need a refresher, refer to that section before
continuing here. Briefly, the MNIST dataset is a collection of 70,000
grayscale images of handwritten digits, ranging from 0 to 9, each with a
size of 28×28 pixels and divided into a training set of 60,000 images and
a test set of 10,000 images.
Similar to what you did in Project 1A, import the MNIST dataset
with Listing 4-20.
import os
import deeptrack as dt
if not os.path.exists("MNIST_dataset"):
    os.system("git clone https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/MNIST_dataset")
data_dir = os.path.join("MNIST_dataset", "mnist")
train_files = dt.sources.ImageFolder(root=os.path.join(data_dir, "train"))
test_files = dt.sources.ImageFolder(root=os.path.join(data_dir, "test"))
files = dt.sources.Join(train_files, test_files)
Listing 4-20: Importing the MNIST dataset
This code downloads the MNIST digit images into the local
MNIST_dataset folder. Then the code loads the training images
(train_files) and the test images (test_files). Finally, it combines them
into the files variable.
To use this data to train the neural network, create a data pipeline:

--- Strana 290 ---
import torch
image_pip = (dt.LoadImage(files.path) >> dt.NormalizeMinMax()
             >> dt.MoveAxis(2, 0) >> dt.pytorch.ToTensor(dtype=torch.float))
This takes a digit image contained in the folders in files.path, rescales it
to 0–1, moves the color dimension to the first position as expected by
PyTorch, and transforms the image into a PyTorch tensor.
Training the Variational Autoencoder
You’ll now define the variational autoencoder and train it to reconstruct
and generate images.
Instantiation
You can easily implement a variational autoencoder as follows:
import deeplay as dl
vae = dl.VariationalAutoEncoder(
    latent_dim=2, channels=[32, 64],
    reconstruction_loss=torch.nn.BCELoss(reduction="sum"), beta=1,
).create()
This defines a variational autoencoder with a 2D latent space
(latent_dim=2). For each input, the encoder will produce two means and
two variances, corresponding to each dimension of the latent space.
These values determine a distribution from which the model samples
during the generation process. By constructing a latent space with only
two dimensions, the encoder captures the essential characteristics of the
input data in a highly compressed form. In terms of the MNIST digits,
this compression means the model learns to represent each digit with
just two variables, simplifying the complex image data while still
retaining enough information to distinguish between different digits.
The variances introduce an element of randomness.
The encoder comprises a sequence of convolutional layers with
increasing number of filters (channels=[32, 64]), each followed by ReLU

--- Strana 291 ---
activation, with pooling layers reducing the spatial dimensions of the
feature maps. This encoder compresses input images into a flattened
feature vector, from which two fully connected layers output the mean
and variance parameters of the latent space distributions. These
parameters facilitate the sampling process that introduces randomness.
The decoder architecture mirrors the encoder, starting from a latent
vector that the decoder first expands with a fully connected layer and
then reshapes to match the convolutional layers’ input dimensions. The
decoder sequentially applies convolutional layers with ReLU
activations, interspersed with transposed convolutional layers
(upsampling) to gradually reconstruct the input image’s spatial
dimensions, ultimately producing a high-fidelity reconstruction of the
original input image. The final layer uses a sigmoid activation to output
the reconstructed image, ensuring that pixel values are from 0 to 1.
The model uses BCELoss, a binary cross-entropy loss for
reconstruction. When dealing with images that have been scaled to the
[0, 1] range as here, the decoder typically ends with a sigmoid activation.
The sigmoid maps its outputs from 0 to 1, naturally interpreted as
probabilities of each pixel being “on” (1) or “off” (0). Binary cross-
entropy directly measures the difference between these predicted
probabilities and the true binary (or near-binary) pixel values. In more
technical terms, each pixel is treated as a Bernoulli random variable,
facilitating a per-pixel measure of the reconstruction error that aligns
with MNIST’s near-binary nature; however, other losses (for example,
MSE) may be preferable if your data or modeling assumptions suggest a
different likelihood function.
The regularization term is scaled by the beta parameter, here set to 1.
The value of 1 is a common default that balances the reconstruction loss
and the regularization term equally. The model gives equal importance
to accurately reconstructing the input images and maintaining a well-
structured latent space. Adjusting beta can affect the trade-off between
these two objectives, with higher values putting more emphasis on
regularization, and lower values focusing more on reconstruction.
You can use print(vae) to see the details of this autoencoder.

--- Strana 292 ---
Training
To train the variational autoencoder, begin by preparing the training
dataset and creating a data loader to efficiently feed data into the model.
You can do this as follows:
train_dataset = dt.pytorch.Dataset(image_pip & image_pip, inputs=train_files)
This creates a dataset from the MNIST images preprocessed through
image_pip. Subsequently, instantiate a DataLoader object to manage batches
of the dataset, enabling efficient and shuffled access to the data during
training:
train_loader = dl.DataLoader(train_dataset, batch_size=64, shuffle=True)
With the data loader in place, you can start the training phase:
vae_trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=10, accelerator="auto")
This configures a trainer object to manage and execute the training
process. This object is set up to run for a maximum of 10 epochs,
utilizing hardware acceleration if available.
Next, call the fit() method to start training, optimizing
reconstruction fidelity and regularizing the latent space distributions:
vae_trainer.fit(vae, train_loader)
During training, the values of the reconstruction, regularization, and
total loss are explicitly printed at each iteration and epoch, showing how
the model is trained and the latent space is being regularized over time.
Generating Images with the Decoder
Now that you’ve completed the training of your variational
autoencoder, you can finally use it to generate new digit images. These
can be useful for data augmentation, enhancing the training datasets for
other machine learning models, or for creative applications like
generating synthetic handwritten digits. This process samples points
from the latent space and uses the decoder to transform them into
images, as shown in Listing 4-21.

--- Strana 293 ---
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from torch.distributions.normal import Normal
img_num, img_size = 21, 28
z0_grid = z1_grid = Normal(0, 1).icdf(torch.linspace(0.001, 0.999, img_num))
image = np.zeros((img_num * img_size, img_num * img_size))
for i0, z0 in enumerate(z0_grid):
    for i1, z1 in enumerate(z1_grid):
     ➊ z = torch.stack((z0, z1)).unsqueeze(0)
     ➋ generated_image = vae.decode(z).clone().detach()
     ➌ image[i1 * img_size : (i1 + 1) * img_size,
              i0 * img_size : (i0 + 1) * img_size] = \
            generated_image.numpy().squeeze()
plt.figure(figsize=(10, 10))
plt.imshow(image, cmap="gray")
plt.xlabel("z0", fontsize=24)
plt.xticks(np.arange(0.5 * img_size, (0.5 + img_num) * img_size, img_size),
           np.round(z0_grid.numpy(), 1))
plt.ylabel("z1", fontsize=24)
plt.yticks(np.arange(0.5 * img_size, (0.5 + img_num) * img_size, img_size),
           np.round(z1_grid.numpy(), 1))
plt.show()
Listing 4-21: Generating and plotting the digit images corresponding to the latent space
This code specifies the number of images (img_num) and their size
(img_size). The code then generates a grid of latent variables (z0_grid and
z1_grid) via icdf(), the inverse cumulative distribution function of a
standard normal distribution. This approach ensures a nonuniform but
representative spread of points across the latent space, facilitating the
exploration of its diverse regions so that the generated images vary
widely, showing the model’s ability to create different digits even from
slight variations in the latent space.
Next, each pair of latent space variables is combined into a single
tensor, to which an additional dimension is added, preparing the tensor

--- Strana 294 ---
for the decoder network to process it as a batch with a single data point
➊. This latent-space tensor is decoded into an image of a digit and
detached from the computational graph ➋, ensuring that it can be
processed independently of any further gradient updates or training
operations. Finally, this image is placed within a larger canvas arranging
these reconstructions in a grid format ➌.
The resulting image should look similar to Figure 4-8.

--- Strana 295 ---
Figure 4-8: The images generated from the latent space, using the decoder
In this grid of digit images, each is synthesized by decoding distinct
sample points from the latent space. The axes correspond to the two
latent dimensions, where each value combination generates a different
digit representation. The digits are smoothly morphing across the grid,
showing the variational autoencoder’s ability to learn a continuous and
richly structured latent space. For example, in the top-left corner where

--- Strana 296 ---
z0 and z1 are both around –3.1, the generated digits resemble the
number 6. As you move horizontally to the right along the z0 axis, the
digits smoothly change from 6 to 1. Moving along the diagonal from
the top-left corner to the bottom-right corner, the digits transition from
6 to 2, 3, 5, 4, 9, and finally 7.
The exact layout and transition between digits you see will differ
from run to run, as the latent space structure is inherently tied to the
training process, which introduces variability in each training session.
Clustering Images with the Encoder
Once your variational autoencoder is trained, a fascinating application is
to examine how the encoder has organized the digit images within the
latent space.
To do this, you must first prepare a pipeline that aligns the test
images with their corresponding digit labels, as shown in Listing 4-22.
label_pip = dt.Value(files.label_name[0]) >> int
test_dataset = dt.pytorch.Dataset(image_pip & label_pip, inputs=test_files)
test_loader = dl.DataLoader(test_dataset, batch_size=64, shuffle=False)
Listing 4-22: Defining a pipeline combining the test images and their digit values (labels)
This code defines a pipeline to pair each image with its digit label.
Then the code defines a dataset for the test images and relative digit
labels. Finally, a data loader is defined to provide an efficient way to
iterate over this dataset, allowing for batch processing of images during
the encoding step.
Next, you’ll encode the images and extract the means of the latent
distributions, which will serve as the coordinates for the clustering in
the latent space, as in Listing 4-23.
mu_list, test_labels = [], []
for image, label in test_loader:
    mu, _ = vae.encode(image)
    mu_list.append(mu)
    test_labels.append(label)

--- Strana 297 ---
mu_array = torch.cat(mu_list, dim=0).detach().numpy()
test_labels = torch.cat(test_labels, dim=0).numpy()
Listing 4-23: Encoding the test images in the latent space
This code iterates through test_loader to encode the images and store
their mean values in the latent space (mu). Afterward, the code
concatenates these mu values and labels into the mu_array and test_labels
tensors, preparing them for visualization.
With the latent space coordinates and corresponding labels at hand,
you can now visualize how the digit images cluster in the latent space,
using Listing 4-24.
   from matplotlib.patches import Rectangle
   plt.figure(figsize=(12, 10))
   plt.scatter(mu_array[:, 0], mu_array[:, 1], s=3, c=test_labels, cmap="tab10")
➊ plt.gca().add_patch(Rectangle((-3.1, -3.1), 6.2, 6.2, fc="none", ec="k", 
lw=1))
   plt.xlabel("mu_array[:, 0]", fontsize=24)
   plt.ylabel("mu_array[:, 1]", fontsize=24)
➋ plt.gca().invert_yaxis()
   plt.axis("equal")
   plt.colorbar()
   plt.show()
Listing 4-24: Plotting the latent space
This code produces a scatterplot showing the clustering of the
encoded test images in the latent space, with points color-coded
according to their true digit labels. The inversion of the y-axis maintains
consistency with the orientation of previous visualizations ➋. The
rectangle delineates the boundary of the latent space shown in Figure 4-
8 for comparison ➊.
Figure 4-9 shows the resulting scatterplot.

--- Strana 298 ---
Figure 4-9: A visualization of the latent space produced by the encoder
You can see how the encoder has arranged the digit images within
the latent space. Clusters of the same digits indicate that the encoder
has learned to group similar images together, while the distribution of
clusters across the space reveals the relationships the variational
autoencoder has inferred between different digits. For example, the
digits 7 and 9 are placed close to each other in the latent space,
suggesting that the encoder has recognized some visual similarity

--- Strana 299 ---
between them. Your results will differ, because the randomness intrinsic
in each training session influences the specific arrangement and
clustering of images.
This visual representation allows you to appreciate the encoder’s
effectiveness in capturing the characteristics of the input data and serves
as a powerful tool to interpret the model’s internal representations.
NOTE
Code Example 4-A, “Generating Digit Images with a Variational
Autoencoder,” 
is 
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch04_AE folder and then ec04_A_vae_mnist. The
vae_mnist .ipynb notebook provides a complete code example that
trains a variational autoencoder on the MNIST digits and uses it to
generate new digit images and cluster the digits in the latent space.
Project 4B: Morphing Images with Wasserstein
Autoencoders
In this project, you’ll use Wasserstein autoencoders to smoothly morph
between images in the Fashion-MNIST dataset. This technique is
useful in applications such as generating realistic transitions in
animations and enhancing data augmentation for training machine
learning models.
Wasserstein autoencoders have a structure similar to variational
autoencoders: Both encode data into a latent space before
reconstructing it. Wasserstein autoencoders exploit the principles of
optimal transport theory to enhance the quality of generated samples.
Optimal transport theory offers a mathematical approach to defining
the most efficient way to convert one probability distribution into
another. The theory does so by computing the cost of shifting mass
within a given space—a cost quantified by the Wasserstein distance, also
known as the Earth mover’s distance. Wasserstein autoencoders use this

--- Strana 300 ---
distance to fine-tune the similarity between the distribution of the
generated data and the actual data distribution.
Understanding Wasserstein Autoencoders
Autoencoders compress complex, high-dimensional data into a low-
dimensional latent space. The autoencoder’s expectation for the data
representation in the latent space is called the prior distribution p(z),
where z is a point in the latent space. This prior distribution provides a
reference for the compression process that follows.
The key distinction between variational autoencoders and
Wasserstein autoencoders lies in their prior distributions—in the way
they manage the data encoding in the latent space. Figure 4-10
illustrates these differences.
Figure 4-10: Comparing latent space management of autoencoders (left), variational
autoencoders (center), and Wasserstein autoencoders (right)
Variational autoencoders approach this task by constructing a
parametric distribution qvae(z|x), typically a Gaussian, for each data
point x. They then utilize the KL divergence to measure the
discrepancy between this constructed distribution and the prior
distribution p(z), with a value of 0 indicating a perfect match. They aim
to minimize this divergence, enhancing generalization and smoothness
in the latent space. However, an overemphasis on matching the prior
distribution may compromise the diversity and quality of reconstructed
samples.

--- Strana 301 ---
Wasserstein autoencoders improve on this by using the Wasserstein
distance to gauge the cost of transforming the learned distribution
qwae(z|x) into the prior distribution p(z). This method provides a more
refined perspective that allows for greater variation in the compressed
representation, often resulting in reconstructions that more faithfully
capture the original data’s diversity.
Loading the Fashion-MNIST Dataset
The Fashion-MNIST dataset, created by the German online retailer
Zalando, adds a twist to the classic MNIST digit classification task. This
dataset consists of a training set of 60,000 images and a test set of
10,000 images. Each example is a 28×28 grayscale image, labeled across
10 clothing and accessory categories.
You can load Fashion-MNIST with Listing 4-25.
import os
import deeptrack as dt
if not os.path.exists("FashionMNIST_dataset"):
    os.system("git clone https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/FashionMNIST_dataset")
data_dir = "FashionMNIST_dataset"
train_files = dt.sources.ImageFolder(root=os.path.join(data_dir, "train"))
test_files = dt.sources.ImageFolder(root=os.path.join(data_dir, "test"))
files = dt.sources.Join(train_files, test_files)
Listing 4-25: Importing the Fashion-MNIST dataset
This code is similar to Listing 4-20, which loads the MNIST dataset
in Project 4A. Briefly, this code downloads Fashion-MNIST, extracts
the training and test files, and then combines them.
After executing the code, verify that the Fashion-MNIST dataset
has been successfully downloaded and loaded by checking that there are
60,000 training files and 10,000 test files with the print(len(train_files))
and print(len(test_files)) commands, respectively.
Then create labels for the classes of the Fashion-MNIST images:

--- Strana 302 ---
classes = ["T-shirt/top", "Trouser", "Pullover", "Dress", "Coat", "Sandal",
           "Shirt", "Sneaker", "Bag", "Ankle boot"]
This list provides a convenient reference to the 10 classes in the
Fashion-MNIST dataset, which include common clothing items,
footwear, and accessories.
Next, create an image-processing pipeline to prepare the images and
labels for your neural network:
import torch
image_pip = (dt.LoadImage(files.path) >> dt.NormalizeMinMax()
             >> dt.MoveAxis(2, 0) >> dt.pytorch.ToTensor(dtype=torch.float))
label_pip = dt.Value(files.label_name[0]) >> int
The image_pip pipeline loads the images from the dataset, normalizes
their pixel values, rearranges the axes to match PyTorch’s expectations,
and converts the images into PyTorch tensors. The label_pip pipeline
extracts the associated labels and converts them from strings to integers.
You can now visualize some of the Fashion-MNIST images along
with their labels, using Listing 4-26.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np
fig, axs = plt.subplots(3, 10, figsize=((10, 4)))
for ax, train_file in zip(axs.ravel(), 
                          np.random.choice(train_files, axs.size)):
 ➊ image, label = (image_pip & label_pip)(train_file)
    ax.imshow(image.squeeze(), cmap="gray")
    ax.set_title(f"{int(label)} {classes[int(label)]}", fontsize=9)
    ax.set_axis_off()
plt.show()
Listing 4-26: Plotting some of the Fashion-MNIST images
This plots a random selection of images from the training set ➊ and
annotates each one with its corresponding label index and class name.

--- Strana 303 ---
The resulting plot should look similar to Figure 4-11.
Figure 4-11: Some Fashion-MNIST images
This shows the diversity of the Fashion-MNIST dataset, with a mix
of clothing and accessories.
Training the Wasserstein Autoencoder
You’ll now create an instance of the Wasserstein autoencoder and train
it to categorize the clothing items.
Instantiation
Create a Wasserstein autoencoder:
import deeplay as dl
wae = dl.WassersteinAutoEncoder(
    channels=[32, 64, 128], latent_dim=20,
    reconstruction_loss=torch.nn.MSELoss(reduction="mean"),
).create()
This code defines a Wasserstein autoencoder, setting the number of
convolutional layers in the encoder and decoder, the latent space
dimension, and the reconstruction loss. You can inspect the complete

--- Strana 304 ---
architecture and configuration of this Wasserstein autoencoder by using
print(wae) to print the model’s details.
Training
With the Wasserstein autoencoder defined, your next step is to prepare
it for training. You set up a dataset to provide the Wasserstein
autoencoder with training data:
train_dataset = dt.pytorch.Dataset(image_pip & image_pip, inputs=train_files)
Then use this dataset to configure a data loader:
train_loader = dl.DataLoader(train_dataset, batch_size=128, shuffle=True)
This takes the training dataset, batches it into groups of 128 images, and
shuffles them to ensure that the training process exposes the
Wasserstein autoencoder to a varied range of data at each step, helping
the autoencoder to generalize.
Then create the trainer to manage the training process
wae_trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=10)
and train your Wasserstein autoencoder:
wae_trainer.fit(wae, train_loader)
After training, be sure to set the model to evaluation mode:
wae.eval();
Switching the Wasserstein autoencoder to evaluation mode is essential
because the autoencoder contains batch normalization layers. These
layers operate differently during training and evaluation. During
training, they adapt to the data, but for evaluation, they rely on learned
parameters to provide stable outputs. Setting the model to evaluation
mode freezes the weights of these layers, ensuring that the output is
consistent for each input.
Reconstructing the Fashion-MNIST Images

--- Strana 305 ---
Now that you’ve trained your Wasserstein autoencoder, let’s observe its
reconstruction capabilities with Listing 4-27.
fig, axs = plt.subplots(2, 10, figsize=((10, 2)))
for i, test_file in enumerate(np.random.choice(test_files, 10)):
 ➊ image, label = (image_pip & label_pip)(test_file)
    axs[0, i].imshow(image.squeeze(), cmap="gray")
    axs[0, i].set_title(f"{int(label)} {classes[int(label)]}", fontsize=9)
    axs[0, i].set_axis_off()
 ➋ reconstructed_image, _ = wae(image.unsqueeze(0))
    axs[1, i].imshow(reconstructed_image.detach().squeeze(), cmap="gray")
    axs[1, i].set_axis_off()
plt.show()
Listing 4-27: Plotting the input and output images
The reconstruction process selects a random image from the test set
➊ and feeds it through the Wasserstein autoencoder to generate an
output that should ideally resemble the original input ➋.
The results should look similar to Figure 4-12.
Figure 4-12: The input (top row) and reconstructed (bottom row) images
By looking at the input images in the top row and their
reconstructed versions in the bottom row, you can assess the quality of
the reconstructions provided by the Wasserstein autoencoder. The
reconstructed images should closely match the original inputs, showing
that the Wasserstein autoencoder is effectively capturing and
reproducing the salient features of the dataset.

--- Strana 306 ---
Creating New Images
Moving beyond reconstruction, Wasserstein autoencoders can generate
entirely new images by sampling from the latent space. Listing 4-28
shows this creative capability in action.
➊ images = wae.decode(torch.randn(30, wae.latent_dim)).detach().squeeze()
   fig, axs = plt.subplots(3, 10, figsize=((10, 3)))
   for ax, image in zip(axs.ravel(), images):
       ax.imshow(image, cmap="gray")
       ax.set_axis_off()
   plt.show()
Listing 4-28: Generating images with the decoder
In this snippet, the decoder generates new images by decoding 30
random latent vectors generated using torch.randn(30, wae.latent_dim) ➊.
This should produce images similar to those shown in Figure 4-13.
Figure 4-13: The Fashion-MNIST images generated from random points in the latent space
These images showcase a range of fashion items generated from
random points within the latent space. Some images stand out with clear
and recognizable features, capturing the essence of various clothing and
accessory categories. Others may appear less defined or more abstract,
illustrating the variability in the generation quality. This reflects the
inherent randomness in sampling from the latent space; certain regions

--- Strana 307 ---
yield high-fidelity reconstructions, while others might result in less-
coherent outputs.
Morphing Images
Wasserstein autoencoders also enable smooth transitions between
images by interpolating points within the latent space—a process akin
to morphing one image into another. This technique is useful for
creating smooth animations, enhancing data augmentation, and
visualizing data transformations.
Morphing one image into another via a Wasserstein autoencoder
requires a smooth transition in the latent space. By interpolating
between the latent vectors of two images, the Wasserstein autoencoder
generates intermediate images that blend characteristics of both original
images. This capability can improve the quality of the output by
ensuring that the generated images maintain realistic features and
smooth transitions. You can do this with Listing 4-29.
steps = 6
fig, axs = plt.subplots(3, steps + 2, figsize=((10, 4)))
for i, _ in enumerate(axs):
 ➊ test_file_0, test_file_1 = np.random.choice(test_files, 2)
    image_0, label_0 = (image_pip & label_pip)(test_file_0)
    z_0 = wae.encode(image_0.unsqueeze(0))
    image_1, label_1 = (image_pip & label_pip)(test_file_1)
    z_1 = wae.encode(image_1.unsqueeze(0))
 ➋ axs[i, 0].imshow(image_0.squeeze(), cmap="gray")
    axs[i, 0].set_title(f"{int(label_0)} {classes[int(label_0)]}", fontsize=9)
    axs[i, 0].set_axis_off()
    for step in range(steps):
        z_step = z_0 + (z_1 - z_0) * step / (steps - 1)
     ➌ image_step = wae.decode(z_step).detach()

--- Strana 308 ---
     ➍ axs[i, step + 1].imshow(image_step.squeeze(), cmap="gray")
        axs[i, step + 1].set_axis_off()
 ➎ axs[i, -1].imshow(image_1.squeeze(), cmap="gray")
    axs[i, -1].set_title(f"{int(label_1)} {classes[int(label_1)]}", fontsize=9)
    axs[i, -1].set_axis_off()
plt.show()
Listing 4-29: Morphing one image into another by moving in the latent space
The number of interpolation steps defines how many images will be
generated in the transition from the starting image to the target image.
For each row in the output figure, two random test images are chosen
➊, and their corresponding latent space representations are computed
(z_0 and z_1).
In each row, the endpoints for the morphing sequence correspond to
the first image ➋ and the last image ➎. Intermediate frames are
generated by linearly interpolating between the latent space
representations of these two endpoints ➌. At each step, the
interpolation result is decoded back into image space ➍, producing a
smooth transition from one fashion item to another, visualized in a
sequence that highlights the Wasserstein autoencoder’s understanding
of the latent structure of the dataset.
Figure 4-14 shows examples of interpolations between images.

--- Strana 309 ---
Figure 4-14: Images obtained by interpolating in latent space between the leftmost and
rightmost images
The leftmost images gradually morph into the rightmost images
through a series of intermediate steps. Each row begins with an original
Fashion-MNIST image and ends with another, with the in-between
images representing the Wasserstein autoencoder’s interpretation of a
continuous path in the latent space between the two endpoints. This
visual progression showcases the smoothness of the latent space and the
Wasserstein autoencoder’s ability to generate coherent transitions
between different classes of fashion items. The consistency of these
transformations across each step reflects the model’s capacity to
understand and manipulate the underlying structure of the data it has
learned.
NOTE
Code Example 4-B, “Interpolating Between Images with a
Wasserstein 
Autoencoder,” 
is 
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate 
to 
the 
Ch04_AE 
folder 
and 
then
ec04_B_wae_fashionmnist. 
The 
wae_fashionmnist.ipynb
notebook provides a complete code example that trains a Wasserstein
autoencoder on the Fashion-MNIST images and then uses the trained

--- Strana 310 ---
autoencoder to interpolate between Fashion-MNIST images by
moving in the latent space.
Project 4C: Detecting Anomalies in ECG Data
Anomaly detection is the process of identifying observations that stand
out from an established norm within a dataset. Such irregular patterns
could indicate occurrences like mechanical failures or emerging trends
such as changes in consumer habits. In this project, you’ll use
autoencoders to spot anomalies in electrocardiogram (ECG) readings—
a vital task for monitoring cardiac health.
Understanding Anomaly Detection
In the context of anomaly detection, an autoencoder is trained
exclusively on normal data, which teaches it to capture the typical
patterns and features inherent to this data.
When a new piece of data is fed through the trained autoencoder,
you can then assess the reconstruction error, which is the difference
between the input and the output of the autoencoder. If the input data is
similar to the normal examples seen during training, the reconstruction
error will be low. Conversely, an anomalous input will likely result in a
higher reconstruction error since the autoencoder hasn’t learned the
patterns associated with anomalies.
Therefore, by setting a threshold for the reconstruction error, you
can flag data that exceeds this threshold as anomalous. This approach is
particularly powerful when anomalies are rare or not well defined,
which makes traditional supervised learning techniques ineffective. For
example, if you have highly imbalanced classes, such as in rare diseases
or fraud detection, training an autoencoder only on normal data can be
particularly useful.
Loading the ECG Dataset

--- Strana 311 ---
The ECG dataset is a compilation of heartbeat signals collected to
support the development and evaluation of algorithms for anomaly
detection in cardiac function. Each signal in the dataset corresponds to a
single heartbeat, represented as a time series with 140 data points
reflecting the electrical activity of the heart as it contracts and relaxes.
Labels accompanying these signals categorize them as normal or
anomalous, with the latter showing potential abnormalities in heart
rhythm that could indicate cardiac conditions.
Start by loading the dataset with Listing 4-30.
   import deeptrack as dt
   import pandas as pd
   import torch
   dataframe = pd.read_csv("ecg.csv", header=None)
   raw_data = dataframe.values
➊ ecgs = raw_data[:, 2:-11]
➋ labels = raw_data[:, -1].astype(bool)
   sources = dt.sources.Source(ecg=ecgs, is_normal=labels)
   train_sources, test_sources = dt.sources.random_split(sources, [0.7, 0.3])
➌ normal_sources = train_sources.filter(lambda ecg, is_normal: is_normal)
Listing 4-30: Loading the ECG dataset
This code loads the ECG dataset into the Pandas dataframe from the
ecg.csv file. The code then extracts the raw numerical data into a NumPy
array. Using the print(f"raw_data.shape = {raw_data.shape}") command, you
can verify that the dataset contains 4,998 traces of length 141.
Each ECG trace has 140 data points, plus one last digit that
represents the label (0 for anomalous and 1 for normal). The code
separates the labels ➋ from the actual traces and cuts out the beginning
and the end of the traces to reduce their size to 128 ➊, which is more
suitable for the autoencoder you’ll define later.
A custom Source object is created from the ECG traces and their
labels to conveniently handle the data. This source is then randomly
split into training and test sets with a 70:30 ratio. From the training set,

--- Strana 312 ---
another subset is created, containing only the normal ECGs ➌; this
subset is crucial for training an autoencoder in an unsupervised manner
to later identify anomalies by using the reconstruction error.
The training dataset contains 3,499 ECG traces, of which about
2,000 are classified as normal, as you can verify via print(f"Train ECGs =
{len(train_sources)}") and print(f"Normal train ECGs = {len(normal_sources)}").
Plotting the Traces
Let’s now visualize the ECG traces, using Listing 4-31.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
fig, axs = plt.subplots(1, 4, figsize=((12, 3)))
for idx, ax in enumerate(axs.ravel()):
    ecg = normal_sources[idx]["ecg"]
    ax.plot(ecg)
    ax.set_xlabel("timestep", fontsize=24)
fig.tight_layout()
plt.show()
Listing 4-31: Plotting some normal ECGs
This code generates Figure 4-15, which shows a series of normal
ECG traces.
Figure 4-15: Normal ECG traces
Each trace displays the typical rhythmic patterns characteristic of a
healthy heart’s electrical activity. The ECGs are plotted over time, with

--- Strana 313 ---
each trace spanning the same number of time steps to demonstrate the
consistency of the heartbeats.
Normalizing the Traces
Normalization is a vital preprocessing step to ensure that the model
treats all data consistently and fairly, especially when the input features
have varying scales. This standardization process adjusts the data to fit
within a particular range, typically 0 to 1, to improve the training
stability and performance.
Listing 4-32 normalizes the ECG traces.
import numpy as np
min_normal = np.min([source["ecg"] for source in normal_sources])
max_normal = np.max([source["ecg"] for source in normal_sources])
ecg_pip = (dt.Value(sources.ecg - min_normal) / (max_normal - min_normal)
           >> dt.Unsqueeze(axis=0) >> dt.pytorch.ToTensor(dtype=torch.float))
label_pip = dt.Value(sources.is_normal)
Listing 4-32: Normalizing the ECGs based on the normal range
This code calculates the minimum and maximum values across all
normal ECG traces. These values establish the range within which the
ECG data will be normalized. Next, the code defines the ecg_pip pipeline
to perform the normalization operation for each ECG trace, ensuring
that every data point is scaled in a range from 0 to 1. This pipeline also
includes an operation to add a new axis to the data (dt.Unsqueeze(axis=0)),
making it compatible with the expected input shape of PyTorch tensors,
and finally converts the scaled data into a PyTorch tensor. Additionally,
the label_pip pipeline is set up to simply pass through the normality label
for each ECG.
After normalizing the ECG data, it’s insightful to visualize the
transformed traces to confirm that the normalization process was
successful. You can do this with Listing 4-33.

--- Strana 314 ---
--snip--
for idx, ax in enumerate(axs.ravel()):
    ecg = ecg_pip(normal_sources[idx])
    ax.plot(ecg.squeeze())
    ax.set_ylim([0, 1])
    --snip--
Listing 4-33: Plotting the normalized ECGs (by modifying Listing 4-31)
This applies ecg_pip to each selected normal ECG source to
normalize the raw ECG trace. Each normalized ECG trace is then
plotted on a corresponding subplot.
Figure 4-16 shows the resulting plots.
Figure 4-16: The normalized normal ECG traces
The traces have now been appropriately scaled and are ready for
further processing by the autoencoder. Notice that the shapes of these
normal ECG traces are all similar.
Defining and Training the Autoencoder
As usual, training an autoencoder is a two-step process. Let’s start by
defining the architecture and then train the model to reconstruct the
input data as accurately as possible.
Define the autoencoder with Listing 4-34.
   import deeplay as dl
   import torch.nn as nn
   autoencoder = dl.ConvolutionalEncoderDecoder2d(

--- Strana 315 ---
       in_channels=1, encoder_channels=[8, 8], out_channels=1,
       out_activation=nn.Identity,
   )
➊ autoencoder[..., "layer"].configure(nn.Conv1d, kernel_size=4, padding="same")
➋ autoencoder[..., "pool"].configure(nn.MaxPool1d, kernel_size=4, stride=4)
➌ autoencoder[..., "upsample"].configure(nn.ConvTranspose1d, kernel_size=4, 
                                          stride=4)
Listing 4-34: Defining an autoencoder for 1D data
This code starts by defining an autoencoder for 2D data. However, the
ECG traces are 1D data. Therefore, the code updates the convolutional
layers of the encoder to use 1D convolutions ➊, its pooling layers to use
1D max-pooling layers ➋, and the deconvolutional layers of the decoder
to be 1D ➌. Print the configuration via print(autoencoder) to gain insights
into the details of the autoencoder’s architecture.
Wrap the autoencoder into a regressor object to compile it:
ae = dl.Regressor(
    model=autoencoder, loss=nn.L1Loss(), optimizer=dl.Adam(),
).create()
This compiles the autoencoder model, defining the loss function and
optimizer. Check the compilation with print(ae).
You can now train the autoencoder on the ECG dataset. Start by
creating a data loader:
train_dataset = dt.pytorch.Dataset(ecg_pip & ecg_pip, inputs=normal_sources)
train_loader = dl.DataLoader(train_dataset, batch_size=16, shuffle=True)
Then train the autoencoder:
ae_trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=30, accelerator="auto")
ae_trainer.fit(ae, train_loader)
This sets the maximum number of epochs to 30 and automatically
utilizes the available hardware acceleration, such as GPU computing, to
speed up the training process.

--- Strana 316 ---
Testing with Normal and Anomalous ECGs
Now you’re ready to visualize the performance of the trained
autoencoder on the test dataset, which includes both normal and
anomalous ECG traces. You can do this with Listing 4-35.
   --snip--
➊ for ax, source in zip(axs.ravel(), np.random.choice(test_sources, 4)):
       test_ecg, test_label = (ecg_pip & label_pip)(source)
    ➋ pred_ecg = ae(test_ecg.float().unsqueeze(0))
    ➌ ax.plot(test_ecg.squeeze(), c="b", label="Input ECG")
    ➍ ax.plot(pred_ecg.detach().squeeze(), c="r", ls="--", 
label="Reconstructed")
       ax.set_title("Normal" if test_label else "Anomalous", fontsize=24)
       ax.legend()
       --snip--
Listing 4-35: Testing the trained autoencoder (by modifying Listing 4-31)
This code iterates over a random subset of test sources ➊,
processing each through the autoencoder ➋. The original ECG is
plotted with a solid line ➌, while the autoencoder’s reconstruction is
overlaid with a dashed line ➍. This allows you to assess how well the
autoencoder has learned to reproduce the normal heartbeats and to
identify anomalies.
Figure 4-17 shows the resulting plots.
Figure 4-17: The input and reconstructed traces for normal and anomalous ECGs
Comparing the reconstructed ECG traces with the input ones, you
can see that the autoencoder performs well on normal ECGs, with

--- Strana 317 ---
reconstructed traces closely mirroring the inputs. However, anomalous
ECGs often result in reconstructions that are less accurate, because
their characteristic patterns weren’t present in the training data. As
you’ll learn in the following sections, this difference in reconstruction
quality serves as the basis for distinguishing between normal and
abnormal heart activity.
Detecting Anomalies
In this section, you’ll learn two methods to identify abnormal patterns
in ECG data via an autoencoder. Both methods exploit the
autoencoder’s ability to learn and reconstruct normal data patterns.
Both also rely on setting a threshold to distinguish between normal and
abnormal data, statistically analyzing the model’s output on training data
known to be normal. Let’s go over each method in more detail.
Reconstruction Error Method
The first method focuses on exploiting the reconstruction error, which
quantifies the difference between the original ECG signal and its
reconstructed version. A larger error suggests an anomaly, as the model
struggles to accurately reproduce data on which it hasn’t been trained.
Start by using Listing 4-36 to calculate the reconstruction error on
the normal ECG traces.
➊ normal_train_ecgs = torch.stack([ecg_pip(source) for source in 
normal_sources])
➋ normal_train_preds = ae(normal_train_ecgs).detach()
   normal_train_losses = [nn.functional.l1_loss(ecg, pred) for ecg, pred 
                          in zip(normal_train_ecgs, normal_train_preds)]
   threshold_losses = np.quantile(normal_train_losses, 0.95)
Listing 4-36: Determining the normal reconstruction error
This code calculates the normal reconstruction error. The code
creates a tensor containing the preprocessed ECGs from the training
dataset ➊ and feeds that tensor into the autoencoder to obtain

--- Strana 318 ---
reconstructed signals ➋. Then the code calculates the L1 loss function
to measure the reconstruction error for each signal, saved as
normal_train_losses. By analyzing these errors, the threshold of the losses
is set at the 95th percentile, which serves as a criterion to identify an
ECG as anomalous.
Next, implement the hist() function shown in Listing 4-37 to plot
the histogram of the reconstruction error.
def hist(title, xlabel, values, threshold_label, threshold):
    """Plot the error histogram highlighting the normal threshold."""
 ➊ plt.hist(values, bins=50, label=title)
 ➋ plt.axvline(x=threshold, color="k", linestyle=":", label=threshold_label)
    plt.xlabel(xlabel, fontsize=16)
    plt.ylabel("ECG Number", fontsize=16)
    plt.legend()
    plt.show()
Listing 4-37: The function to plot the histogram highlighting the threshold
This function plots a histogram to visualize the distribution of the
values ➊, with a vertical line indicating the threshold ➋.
You can now use the hist() function with the following parameters:
hist("Training Dataset", "MAE", normal_train_losses, "95%", threshold_losses)
This should plot a histogram similar to the left side of Figure 4-18.

--- Strana 319 ---
Figure 4-18: The reconstruction error in the training dataset with only normal ECGs (left)
and in the test dataset (right)
The MAE is quite small, suggesting a high accuracy in
reconstruction, meaning that the model is effectively capturing and
reproducing the original data with minimal error. The 95th percentile,
shown by the dotted vertical line, serves as the threshold beyond which
ECGs are deemed anomalous.
Next, calculate and plot the reconstruction errors for the test data
with Listing 4-38.
   test_ecgs = torch.stack([ecg_pip(source) for source in test_sources])
   test_preds = ae(test_ecgs).detach()
➊ test_losses = [nn.functional.l1_loss(ecg, pred) for ecg, pred 
                  in zip(test_ecgs, test_preds)]
➋ hist("Test Dataset", "MAE", test_losses, "95%", threshold_losses)
Listing 4-38: Calculating and plotting the reconstruction errors in the test data
This code calculates the reconstruction error for each ECG in the
test dataset by comparing the original ECG signal with the signal
reconstructed by the autoencoder ➊. Then the histogram is plotted to
visualize the distribution of these reconstruction errors, with a vertical
line representing the threshold determined from the training data ➋.

--- Strana 320 ---
The resulting plot should resemble the right side of Figure 4-18.
Now there’s a second peak with a lot of data points above the threshold,
suggesting that they might be abnormal heartbeats.
To quantitatively evaluate the performance of the model on the test
data, you can implement the evaluate() function shown in Listing 4-39.
from sklearn.metrics import accuracy_score, precision_score, recall_score
def evaluate(labels, predictions):
    """Evaluate accuracy, precision, and recall of performance metric."""
    print(f"Accuracy = {accuracy_score(labels, predictions):.3f}  "
          f"Precision = {precision_score(labels, predictions):.3f}  "
          f"Recall = {recall_score(labels, predictions):.3f}")
Listing 4-39: The function to determine the metrics of the model
This function calculates and prints the accuracy (proportion of total
predictions that are correct), precision (accuracy of positive predictions),
and recall (proportion of correctly identified actual positives).
Next, use this function to evaluate the performance metrics for the
anomaly detection based on the reconstruction error:
evaluate(labels=[label_pip(source) for source in test_sources], 
         predictions=test_losses < threshold_losses)
This determines the performance metrics for the anomaly detection
based on the reconstruction error by comparing the binary labels of the
test data with the predicted labels determined by whether the
reconstruction error is above the threshold.
For our run of the code, we got the following performance metrics:
Accuracy = 0.852  Precision = 0.823  Recall = 0.954
These results suggest that the model is quite effective at detecting
normal ECGs as it has a high recall, but there is room to improve the
precision by reducing the false positives.
Latent Space Method

--- Strana 321 ---
The second method exploits the latent space, where data is represented
in a compressed form. The assumption is that normal ECGs will cluster
together in the latent space, whereas anomalous ECGs will be farther
away from these clusters. By measuring the distance of each encoded
ECG from its neighbors in the latent space, this approach gauges each
ECG’s level of normality by determining a threshold beyond which
ECGs are considered anomalous.
Start by calculating the latent space of the normal ECGs:
latent_space_train = ae.model.encoder(normal_train_ecgs).detach()
latent_space_train = latent_space_train.view(latent_space_train.shape[0], -1)
This uses the trained encoder to obtain the latent representation of the
normal ECG traces. The resulting latent_space_train tensor is then
reshaped to a 2D tensor, with each row representing the latent space
features of a single ECG trace.
Now you need to quantify the typicality of a point in the latent
space, using Listing 4-40.
   from sklearn.neighbors import NearestNeighbors
   n_neighbors = 4  # Number of nearest neighbors
➊ neighbors = NearestNeighbors(n_neighbors=n_neighbors + 1, 
                                algorithm="ball_tree").fit(latent_space_train)
➋ distances, _ = neighbors.kneighbors(latent_space_train)
   distances = distances[:, 1:]
➌ mean_distance = np.mean(distances, 1)
   threshold_dist = np.quantile(mean_distance, 0.95)
   hist("Training Dataset", "Mean Distance", mean_distance, "95%", 
threshold_dist)
Listing 4-40: Determining and plotting the distance between a representation in the latent
space of a normal ECG and its neighbors

--- Strana 322 ---
This code employs the k-nearest neighbors algorithm, a method that
identifies the data points in a dataset that are nearest to a given point
based on a chosen distance metric. Thus, you determine the given
point’s neighbors (here, with k set to 4).
By fitting the algorithm to the latent representations of the normal
ECG traces ➊, the code calculates each point’s distance to its k-nearest
neighbors ➋ (the + 1 in n_neighbors=n_neighbors + 1 is used because the
NearestNeighbors method includes the point itself as one of the closest
neighbors). Since the closest neighbor of a point is the point itself, the
code excludes the first column to focus on the distances to the nearest
distinct neighbors. The mean distance for each point to its neighbors is
computed ➌, providing insights into how tightly or loosely each ECG is
embedded within the normal cluster.
The code sets a threshold at the 95th percentile of these mean
distances, implying that points beyond this threshold are sufficiently far
from the core cluster to be considered anomalies.
Finally, the hist() function plots the mean distances in a histogram,
with the threshold indicated as a vertical dashed line. The left side of
Figure 4-19 shows the corresponding plot.
Figure 4-19: The distance from neighbors in the latent space for normal ECGs (left) and in
the test dataset (right)

--- Strana 323 ---
Like the reconstruction loss shown in Figure 4-18, this provides a
clear view of the distribution of distances within the latent space and
allows you to identify potential outliers.
Now calculate the latent representations for the test data:
latent_space_test = ae.model.encoder(test_ecgs).detach()
latent_space_test = latent_space_test.view(latent_space_test.shape[0], -1)
Then calculate the distances from the latent representations of the
test data to their k-neighbors in the normal training data, using Listing
4-41.
   from sklearn.metrics import pairwise_distances
➊ mean_dist_test = pairwise_distances(latent_space_test, latent_space_train)
➋ mean_dist_test = np.mean(
       np.partition(mean_dist_test, n_neighbors, axis=1)[:, :n_neighbors], 1,
   )
   hist("Test Dataset", "Mean Distance", mean_dist_test, "95%", threshold_dist)
Listing 4-41: Determining and plotting the distance between the test ECGs and the closest
normal ECGs
This code begins by computing the distances between each test
ECG’s latent representations and those of the normal ECGs, effectively
assessing how far each test ECG is from the norm. The code then finds
the average distance to the nearest neighbors, which is a measure of how
typical or atypical each test ECG is relative to normal patterns. Finally,
the hist() function plots a histogram to visualize these mean distances
across the test dataset, with a vertical line marking the threshold
distance.
The results should look similar to the right side of Figure 4-19. The
analysis based on the latent space identifies two clusters of ECG traces
separated by the vertical threshold line. This allows you to distinguish
normal from anomalous ECGs, with anything to the right of the
threshold indicating anomalies and anything to the left indicating
normal ECGs.

--- Strana 324 ---
As you did previously, you can quantify this observation as follows:
evaluate(labels=[label_pip(source) for source in test_sources],
         predictions=mean_dist_test < threshold_dist)
This permits you to determine the performance metrics for the anomaly
detection based on the latent space. The resulting performance metrics
are shown here:
Accuracy = 0.976  Precision = 0.996  Recall = 0.963
The performance metrics using the latent space significantly surpass
those obtained through reconstruction error analysis. Specifically, in our
run, accuracy improved from 0.852 to 0.976, indicating a higher overall
rate of correctly identified ECGs (both normal and anomalous).
Precision also saw a remarkable increase from 0.823 to 0.996, showing
an enhanced ability to accurately identify anomalies without as many
false positives. While recall increased only slightly from 0.954 to 0.963,
it still shows that the model is highly capable of identifying true
anomalies.
NOTE
Code Example 4-C, “Detecting Anomalies with an Autoencoder,” is
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate 
to 
the 
Ch04_AE 
folder 
and 
then
ec04_C_anomaly_detection. 
The 
anomaly_detection.ipynb
notebook provides a complete code example that detects anomalies in
ECGs by using an autoencoder.
Summary
In this chapter, you explored encoder-decoders, including denoising
encoder-decoders, variational autoencoders, and Wasserstein
autoencoders.

--- Strana 325 ---
You started by learning how encoders and decoders work together to
compress and reconstruct data, paving the way for more-complex
applications. By implementing a denoising encoder-decoder, you
learned the practical aspects of cleaning corrupted images, showcasing
the model’s ability to recover valuable data from noisy inputs.
You also learned about variational autoencoders—your first foray
into the domain of generative modeling, which you’ll explore in more
detail in Chapters 9 and 10. Through the project with the MNIST
dataset, you saw how variational autoencoders can generate new, diverse
digit images that mimic the characteristics of the original dataset as well
as explored the role of the latent space in controlling and understanding
the generative process.
You then applied Wasserstein autoencoders to the Fashion-MNIST
dataset. Here, you explored the concept of smoothly morphing between
images, demonstrating the continuous nature of the latent space
captured by Wasserstein autoencoders.
Finally, you applied autoencoders to detect anomalies in ECG data
based on the reconstruction error and latent space features. This
demonstrated the autoencoder’s potential in distinguishing between
normal and abnormal heartbeats, highlighting the practical significance
of autoencoders in health care.
In the next chapter, you’ll build on what you know about the
encoder-decoder architecture to implement U-Nets, which have
become a central tool for image analysis and transformation.
Seminal Works and Further Reading
The concept of autoencoders was explored in the influential 1994 work
by Geoffrey E. Hinton and Richard S. Zemel, “Autoencoders, Minimum
Description Length, and Helmholtz Free Energy,” published in
Proceedings of the Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS, volume
6, pages 3–10). This work laid the foundation for using autoencoders to
learn efficient representations of data by compressing and
reconstructing input information, which serves as a basis for many
modern architectures.

--- Strana 326 ---
Hinton and Ruslan R. Salakhutdinov introduced the use of neural
networks for unsupervised learning by training an autoencoder to
generate compact representations in “Reducing the Dimensionality of
Data with Neural Networks,” published in 2006 in Science (volume 313,
pages 504–507). This work paved the way for self-supervised approaches
that use an inherent structure within the data to serve as a supervisory
signal.
In 2015, Jonathan Long et al. introduced the use of convolutional
neural networks in a fully convolutional manner to perform pixel-level
image segmentation, laying the foundation for modern encoder-decoder
approaches in image analysis, in “Fully Convolutional Networks for
Semantic Segmentation,” published in Proceedings of the IEEE Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR, pages 3,431–3,440).
Variational autoencoders were introduced by Diederik P. Kingma
and Max Welling in “Auto-Encoding Variational Bayes,” published in
2013 on arXiv (article number 1312.6114) and in Proceedings of the
International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR 2014).
Ilya Tolstikhin et al. proposed the Wasserstein autoencoder by
combining optimal transport theory with generative models in their
2018 article “Wasserstein Auto-Encoders,” published on arXiv (article
number 1711.01558) and in Proceedings of the International Conference on
Learning Representations (ICLR 2018).
CHALLENGE PROJECTS
4-1: Multimodal data fusion for anomaly detection  Use
sensor data from smartphones and smartwatches for anomaly
detection in human activities. Use the Human Activity
Recognition with Smartphones dataset available on Kaggle.
4-2: Generative models for synthetic data creation 
Experiment with generative models to create synthetic images.
Use the CelebFaces Attributes (CelebA) dataset for facial images,
the Landscape Pictures dataset for landscapes, and the SIIM-ISIC

--- Strana 327 ---
Melanoma Classification dataset for medical images, all available
on Kaggle. Assess the realism and diversity of the generated
images.
4-3: Cross-domain image translation  Implement cross-
domain image translation between conditions, such as day to night
or summer to winter. Use the Day-Night dataset and Flickr Image
dataset from Kaggle for your experiments. Evaluate the quality
and authenticity of the translated images.
4-4: Advanced denoising with real-world noise patterns 
Tackle the challenge of image denoising with the Darmstadt Noise
dataset (DND), available on the TU Darmstadt website, and the
SIDD Benchmark data-set, available on the York University
website. Focus on removing real-world noise patterns from images
captured under various conditions.
4-5: Anomaly detection in time-series data  Explore anomaly
detection in time-series data with the Numenta Anomaly
Benchmark (NAB) dataset, available on the Numenta website, and
the S5–A Labeled Anomaly Detection dataset, available on Yahoo
Webscope. These datasets offer real and synthetic time-series data
with labeled anomalies.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 328 ---
5
SEGMENTING AND ANALYZING IMAGES
WITH U-NETS
In this chapter, you’ll learn about the U-Net, an architecture that stands
at the forefront of image-transformation tasks such as image
segmentation. The U-Net is a specialized form of encoder-decoder
architecture, distinguished by its skip connections. These connections
bridge the encoder and decoder at multiple scales, allowing the network
to not just capture high-level features but also retain finegrained details,
which is essential for precise image transformation.
You’ll start by using a U-Net for a challenging yet fascinating
application: segmenting images of biological tissue to identify
intracellular regions and mitochondria, which are critical for cellular
functions and energy production. This practical exercise will
demonstrate the capabilities of U-Nets in handling complex image-
transformation tasks. Additionally, you’ll use data augmentation to
enhance U-Net performance, a key strategy to train robust neural
network models.
In this chapter’s projects, you’ll apply a U-Net to find the positions
of particles and to count the number of cells in an image, which are

--- Strana 329 ---
important tasks in fields such as biomedical research, drug development,
and medical diagnostics.
Introducing U-Nets
Building upon the foundational principles of the encoder-decoder from
Chapter 4, the U-Net architecture emerged as a sophisticated evolution
designed specifically to overcome the limitations inherent in traditional
encoder-decoder models.
Encoder-decoders, with their characteristic bottleneck layer,
intentionally restrict the complexity of the functions they can learn,
aiming to minimize noise retention at the cost of potential signal
distortion or inadequate signal representation. This trade-off, while
beneficial for tasks like dimensionality reduction and denoising, often
falls short in applications demanding high precision and detail
retention. Image segmentation, for example, requires accurately
identifying and delineating boundaries within an image for tasks such as
medical diagnosis, autonomous driving, and object recognition.
The U-Net architecture, illustrated in Figure 5-1, was introduced by
Olaf Ronneberger and co-workers in 2015 to address these problems.

--- Strana 330 ---
Figure 5-1: The U-Net architecture
This distinctive U-shaped architecture—hence the name “U-Net”—
captures high-level features through its encoding stage while also
preserving granular details during decoding. The U-Net’s efficacy stems
from its innovative skip connections, which link corresponding
contraction and expansion convolutional layers, thus limiting the loss of
detail at the bottleneck. These connections ensure that the network
captures a complete picture of the input data, from the overarching
global features to the minutest of details.
As in the case of an encoder-decoder, a U-Net captures complex
features at different scales through a series of downsampling and
upsampling operations. Downsampling reduces the spatial dimensions
and increases the depth of the feature maps, while upsampling reverses
this process. The skip connections bridge these two processes,
concatenating feature maps of the same dimensions from the
downsampling path to the upsampling path.
The inclusion of skip connections also addresses the vanishing
gradient problem during backpropagation, maintaining essential signal
information within the network’s deeper layers. These connections

--- Strana 331 ---
essentially provide a direct pathway for gradients to flow through
during training.
Understanding Semantic Segmentation with U-Nets
Semantic segmentation is the process of converting the values of each
pixel in an image to another property that is more appropriate for
downstream analysis.
NOTE
While semantic segmentation classifies each pixel into a category,
instance segmentation goes a step further by distinguishing between
different instances of the same class within an image. This distinction
is crucial for applications requiring individual tracking or
identification of objects that belong to the same category. The panoptic
segmentation technique combines these approaches to provide
comprehensive image analysis that classifies every pixel by category
while also distinguishing between individual instances of these
categories, effectively merging the concepts of semantic and instance
segmentation for a holistic understanding of the image.
In the context of image analysis, semantic segmentation often
converts an image, which is composed of the intensity of the light
received by each pixel, into a segmented image that contains the
probability of each pixel to represent a specific type of, for example, cell
structure.
One reason for the success of U-Nets in image segmentation is their
versatile architecture, which simultaneously examines feature maps of
multiple scales during upsampling and downsampling. Another
important factor is the novel loss weighting introduced in the original
U-Net description, which improves the accuracy of segmentation by
giving more importance to certain features, such as edges and small
structures.

--- Strana 332 ---
The U-Net transforms the image-segmentation task into a pixel-
wise multi-class classification problem by first applying a pixel-wise
softmax function. This function converts the output values into a
normalized probability distribution, which is the final feature map and is
returned as the output of the network. The pixel-wise softmax is
followed by the cross-entropy loss function, which is used to classify each
pixel into one of several predefined classes.
The softmax function normalizes the final feature map into a
probability distribution proportional to its exponential:
Here, z = [z0, . . . , zK–1] is the feature map, and K is the number of
segmentation classes. The softmax function maps this vector to a
probability distribution, ensuring that each component lies in the
interval [0, 1] and that the components add up to 1, providing a
probabilistic estimate of the class to which the input pixel belongs.
The categorical cross-entropy loss depends on the details of how the
various classes are encoded. One common method is one-hot encoding:
Each class is represented by a binary vector with all elements set to 0
except for a single element set to 1, which indicates the class. For
example, if a segmentation dataset has three classes, the first one is
labeled [1, 0, 0], the second [0, 1, 0], and the third [0, 0, 1]. The
categorical cross-entropy loss is thereby calculated as follows:
Here, yi represents the one-hot-encoded true label for each class (where
i represents a specific class out of K total classes), zi are the logits for
each class produced by the model (the logits are the raw, unnormalized
scores output by the model), and σ(zi) represents the softmax function
applied to the logits zi, converting them to a probability distribution
over the classes. With this loss, the terms in the summation are 0
σ (zi) =
ezi
∑
K−1
j=0  ezj
    (5.1)
Lcross-entropy = –
K−1
∑
i=0
yiln (σ (zi))     (5.2)

--- Strana 333 ---
everywhere except for the correct label defined in the one-hot-encoding
vector. Thus, you lose a lot of computational time computing the
logarithm of values that don’t change the loss value.
An alternative approach that you’ll use in this chapter is sparse
categorical cross-entropy, which can be used if the class labels are integers,
as when they are one-hot encoded. This loss computes the logarithm
only for the output index that corresponds to the ground truth.
Therefore, the loss function is
where ztrue is the logit for the true class. This is much more
computationally efficient.
You can modify this loss function with different weightings. For
example, you could weight the pixels at the borders of segmented
regions to be more important than the pixels inside the segmentation to
encourage the network to learn hard borders between objects. You
might also consider weighting the classes differently if you have an
unbalanced dataset.
Segmenting Images of Biological Tissues
In this section, you’ll segment neuronal structures obtained with a high-
resolution microscopy imaging technique—namely, serial-section
transmission electron microscopy (ssTEM). You’ll work with a database
of images of the ventral nerve cord of Drosophila melanogaster larvae,
commonly known as fruit flies. The goal is to discern and delineate the
neuronal intracellular regions and mitochondria, two critical
components for understanding the complex neuronal architecture of
this organism, because these structures are crucial for the functioning
and energy dynamics of the nerve cells.
You’ve already used some images from this dataset in Projects 3C
and 3D when you created DeepDreams and transferred style between
images. This dataset comprises 20 high-quality ssTEM images, each
with 1024×1024 pixels. These images capture minute details of the
Lsparse cross-entropy = −ln (σ (ztrue))     (5.3)

--- Strana 334 ---
neuronal structures, offering insights into the biological makeup of the
nerve cord. The ssTEM images also include corresponding
segmentations, which have been manually (and painstakingly) annotated
by human experts to provide a reference for the complex patterns of
neuronal structures you’ll now try to segment.
Loading the Segmented Tissue Images
Start by downloading the dataset with Listing 5-1.
import os
if not os.path.exists("tissue_images_dataset"):
    os.system("git clone https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/tissue_images_dataset")
raw_path = os.path.join("tissue_images_dataset", "stack1", "raw")
seg_path = os.path.join("tissue_images_dataset", "stack1", "labels")
Listing 5-1: Downloading the dataset
This code downloads the data into the tissue_images_dataset
directory, which contains the stack1 directory, which in turn includes
two further subdirectories: raw for the ssTEM images and labels for the
segmentation maps.
To manage the images and labels effectively during the training
phase, you can construct some data sources, as shown in Listing 5-2.
   import deeptrack as dt
   raw_paths = dt.sources.ImageFolder(root=raw_path)
   seg_paths = dt.sources.ImageFolder(root=seg_path)
➊ paths = dt.sources.Source(raw=raw_paths, label=seg_paths)
➋ train_paths, val_paths, test_paths = \
       dt.sources.random_split(paths, [0.8, 0.1, 0.1])
➌ train_srcs = train_paths.product(flip_ud=[True, False], flip_lr=[True, False])
   val_srcs = val_paths.constants(flip_ud=False, flip_lr=False)
   test_srcs = test_paths.constants(flip_ud=False, flip_lr=False)

--- Strana 335 ---
   sources = dt.sources.Join(train_srcs, val_srcs, test_srcs)
Listing 5-2: Creating the sources to manage the images during training
This code begins by loading the image paths from the dataset into
two ImageFolder objects for the raw and segmented images. These are
then combined into a single source ➊, which is subsequently divided
into training, validation, and test sets with an 80:10:10 split ratio ➋.
Verify that you’ve loaded 20 images with len(raw_paths) or len(seg_paths),
of which 16 are used for training, 2 for validation, and 2 for testing.
For the training set, data augmentation is done by generating images
flipped both vertically and horizontally to enhance the model’s
generalization capabilities ➌. The validation set (val_srcs) and test set
(test_srcs), on the other hand, are kept without augmentations.
Finally, all sources are joined together into sources, simplifying the
process of iterating over different sets during training and evaluation.
Creating the Data Pipelines
These labeled segmentations aren’t one-hot encoded but rather contain
the class label for each pixel. The class labels represent various neuronal
structures, including intracellular regions, oriented membranes,
membrane junctions, mitochondria, and synapses. The class associated
with each cell structure is fully described in the ssTEM dataset
documentation.
For this example, you’ll consider only the neuronal intracellular
regions and mitochondria, to which the dataset assigns the labels 255
and 191, respectively. First, you’ll extract the classes you’re interested in
and group the remaining class labels into a Background class.
Additionally, you’ll assign the class labels to be 0, 1, and 2, for
background, intracellular regions, and mitochondria, respectively. This
will make it easier to work with the data in the following steps.
Start by implementing the select_labels() function that selects the
classes you’re interested in and groups the remaining class labels into a
Background class, as shown in Listing 5-3.

--- Strana 336 ---
import numpy as np
def select_labels(class_labels):
    """Create a function to filter and remap labels in a segmentation map.""" 
    def inner(segmentation):
        seg = segmentation.copy()
        mask = seg * np.isin(seg, class_labels).astype(np.uint8)
     ➊ new_seg = (np.select([mask == c for c in class_labels], 
                             np.arange(len(class_labels)) + 1)
                   .astype(np.uint8).squeeze())
     ➋ one_hot_encoded_seg = np.eye(len(class_labels) + 1)[new_seg]
        return one_hot_encoded_seg
    return inner
Listing 5-3: The function to filter the labels in the segmentation map
This function filters and remaps the labels in a segmentation map
according to the list of labels to be selected from the segmentation map
in the class_labels parameter. The select_labels() function returns the
inner() function that takes a segmentation map as its input (with one
color channel where the segmentations are encoded in the pixel values).
This function first creates the seg copy of the input segmentation map to
avoid modifying the original data. Then the function generates a mask by
selecting the pixels whose values match any of those specified in
class_labels. Next, the function changes the values of these selected
labels to a new range, from 1 to the length of class_labels, by using the
NumPy select() function, which constructs a new segmentation map
replacing each of the specified labels with its new value ➊. Finally, the
function returns a one-hot-encoded version of this new segmentation
map (with one color channel for the background plus one color channel
for each class label): Each pixel is represented as a one-hot vector
indicating its class, and the vector size is one more than the number of
class labels (using the 0 label to account for the background) ➋.
You can now set up pipelines that handle both images and labels,
applying the necessary transformations to prepare the data, using
Listing 5-4.

--- Strana 337 ---
import torch
im_pip = dt.LoadImage(sources.raw.path) >> dt.NormalizeMinMax()
seg_pip = (dt.LoadImage(sources.label.path)
        ➊ >> dt.Lambda(select_labels, class_labels=[255, 191]))
pip = ((im_pip & seg_pip) >> dt.FlipLR(sources.flip_lr)
       >> dt.FlipUD(sources.flip_ud) >> dt.MoveAxis(2, 0)
       >> dt.pytorch.ToTensor(dtype=torch.float))
Listing 5-4: Defining the pipelines
This code creates an image pipeline (im_pip) to get the image from
the file and normalize it. Then a label pipeline (seg_pip) is created to load
the segmentations from the file, applying the function returned by
select_labels() to filter and remap the labels ➊. Finally, the code
combines these pipelines into the pip pipeline for the subsequent
training process.
Now, define the training and validation datasets:
train_dataset = dt.pytorch.Dataset(pip, train_srcs)
val_dataset = dt.pytorch.Dataset(pip, val_srcs)
At this point, it’s safer to double-check that the pipeline works as
intended by plotting a raw image from the training dataset and the
corresponding processed segmentation with Listing 5-5.
   import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
➊ image, segmentation = train_dataset[0]
   fig, axs = plt.subplots(1, 4, figsize=(10, 5))
➋ axs[0].imshow(image.permute(1, 2, 0), cmap="gray")
   axs[0].set_title("Image", fontsize=16)
   axs[0].set_axis_off()
   for i in range(segmentation.shape[0]):
       segmentation_color = torch.ones_like(segmentation)

--- Strana 338 ---
       for j in range(segmentation.shape[0]):
        ➌ if j != i: segmentation_color[j, ...] = 1 - segmentation[i, ...]
   
    ➍ axs[i + 1].imshow(segmentation_color.permute(1, 2, 0))
       axs[i + 1].set_title(f"Ground Truth Ch. {i}", fontsize=16)
       axs[i + 1].set_axis_off()
    
   plt.tight_layout()
   plt.show()
Listing 5-5: Plotting the input image and corresponding ground-truth segmentation
This code extracts the first image and relative segmentation from
the dataset ➊ and then plots them. As usual, the code permutes the
dimensions of the image and segmentation tensors, transforming them from
the channel-first format expected by PyTorch to the channel-last format
required for visualization with Matplotlib ➋ ➍. The channels of the
segmentation map are manipulated to be plotted separately on a white
background ➌.
Figure 5-2 shows the resulting images.
Figure 5-2: The input image (left) and the ground-truth segmentation corresponding to the
background (channel 0), intracellular regions (channel 1), and mitochondria (channel 2)
On the left is an ssTEM image of the ventral nerve cord from a
Drosophila melanogaster larva with its complex cellular textures and
structures. The three panels on the right show the segmentations
corresponding to background (channel 0), intracellular regions (channel
1), and mitochondria (channel 2). These segmentations show the spatial

--- Strana 339 ---
distribution and morphology of different cellular components: The
background segmentation highlights the empty spaces and cell
boundaries; the intracellular regions segmentation captures the dense
cell interiors; and the mitochondria segmentation isolates the smaller,
more sparsely distributed mitochondrial structures.
Defining and Training the U-Net
In this section, you’ll train a U-Net to identify and segment the cellular
components. You’ll start by defining a metric to be monitored during
training. Then you’ll define and compile the U-Net as well as the
necessary data loaders. Finally, you’ll train the network.
Segmentation models, like U-Nets, require a well-thought-out
strategy to evaluate their performance. The Jaccard index, also known as
intersection over union (IoU), is a common metric used to evaluate image-
segmentation models. The Jaccard index measures the similarity of the
predicted and true segmentations by calculating the area of overlap
between the predicted segmentation and the ground-truth
segmentation, divided by the area of the union of these two regions.
This metric provides an intuitive way to quantify the accuracy of a
segmentation model, as it directly relates to the proportion of correctly
identified pixels relative to the combined area of both the prediction
and the ground truth. Higher values of the Jaccard index indicate better
performance, with a score of 1.0 representing a model that perfectly
segments the image with no false positives or false negatives.
Predictions are typically made as probabilities for each class. A
common approach to convert these probabilities to class predictions
that can be used in the Jaccard index is to select the class with the
maximum value by using the argmax() function. To accommodate this,
you can introduce a customized metric class that extends the
MulticlassJaccardIndex class to automatically apply the argmax() function to
the predictions before computing the metric, as shown in Listing 5-6.
from torchmetrics.classification import MulticlassJaccardIndex
class ArgmaxJI(MulticlassJaccardIndex):

--- Strana 340 ---
    """Compute Jaccard Index for multiclass predictions after argmax."""
 
    def update(self, preds, targets):
        """Update Jaccard Index using argmax of class predictions."""
        super().update(preds.argmax(dim=1), targets.argmax(dim=1))
Listing 5-6: The class to compute the Jaccard index after argmax()
The update() method updates the Jaccard index metric by comparing
the predictions and targets after applying the argmax() function to both
preds and targets. The argmax() function selects the index of the maximum
value across the specified dimension (dim=1), effectively choosing the
class with the highest predicted probability for each pixel.
Next, define the U-Net model, using Listing 5-7.
import deeplay as dl
ji_metric = ArgmaxJI(num_classes=3)
     
unet = dl.UNet2d(
    in_channels=1, channels=[16, 32, 64, 128], out_channels=3, skip=dl.Cat(),
)
unet_reg_template = dl.Regressor(
    model=unet, loss=torch.nn.CrossEntropyLoss(), metrics=[ji_metric],
    optimizer=dl.Adam(),
)
unet_reg = unet_reg_template.create()
Listing 5-7: Creating and compiling the U-Net
This code starts by defining the ji_metric metric to evaluate the
model’s performance, provided by the ArgmaxJI class defined in Listing 5-
6 with three classes.
Then the code instantiates a U-Net with a single input channel,
reflecting the grayscale nature of our ssTEM images (in_channels=1). The
architecture consists of layers with increasing numbers of channels
(channels=[16, 32, 64, 128]). The same structure is replicated in reverse for
the decoder part of the U-Net. The output of the U-Net will have three
channels, corresponding to the classes: background, intracellular

--- Strana 341 ---
regions, and mitochondria (out_channels=3). The skip connections
(skip=dl.Cat()) simply concatenate the output of each encoder’s block
with the corresponding input of the decoder’s block.
A regressor template is set up with the U-Net model, the CrossEntropy
Loss() function, your custom Jaccard index metric ji_metric, and the
Adam optimizer. Finally, the code calls the create() method on the
regressor template to produce a U-Net regressor that is ready to be
trained.
To get a better understanding of the U-Net model and its
configuration, you can print the model summary with print(unet_reg).
With the U-Net model defined, set up the data loaders for the
training and validation datasets as shown in Listing 5-8.
train_loader = dl.DataLoader(train_dataset, batch_size=2, shuffle=True)
val_loader = dl.DataLoader(val_dataset, batch_size=2)
Listing 5-8: Defining the training and validation data loaders
These data loaders will feed batches of images and labels into the U-
Net during the training process, with the batch size set to 2 and
shuffling enabled for the training dataset to ensure that the model sees a
diverse set of images during each epoch.
Finally, train the U-Net with Listing 5-9.
from lightning.pytorch.loggers import CSVLogger
logger = CSVLogger("logs", name="train_100_epochs")
trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=100, accelerator="auto", logger=logger)
trainer.fit(unet_reg, train_loader, val_loader)
Listing 5-9: Training the U-Net for 100 epochs
This code trains the U-Net for 100 epochs. A CSVLogger object
records the training progress, which is useful for analyzing the model’s
performance over time. The training and validation processes are
carried out via the train_loader and val_loader data loaders, and the fit()
method kicks off the actual training.

--- Strana 342 ---
EXERCISES
5-1:  Modify the U-Net architecture by either removing the skip
connections (that is, using an encoder-decoder) or adding extra
layers (for example, convolution and activation) to the skip
connections before the concatenation. Compare the results against
the original model.
5-2:  The ssTEM images are quite big. In the previous section,
you used a small batch size to ensure training without memory
issues. As an alternative, you can train with smaller images (for
example, 64×64 pixels) and increase the batch size (for example, to
16) by using cropping as an augmentation. Compare the trend of
the learning curves against that of the original model.
Plotting the Training Metrics
Monitoring the training and validation metrics throughout the training
process is crucial to ensure that your model is learning effectively and to
identify any potential overfitting. As you learned in Chapter 1,
overfitting occurs when the model performs well on the training data
but poorly on unseen data. This indicates that the model has learned the
training data too closely, including its noise and outliers, rather than
generalizing from the training data.
You can read the metrics logged during the training from the
metrics.csv file as follows:
import pandas as pd
metrics = pd.read_csv(os.path.join(logger.log_dir, "metrics.csv")).ffill()
Given that the logged data may have missing values, this code uses the
.ffill() function to apply forward filling, a technique used to fill missing
values in a sequence by propagating the last observed non-null value

--- Strana 343 ---
forward until another non-null value is encountered, to ensure
continuity in the data.
To visualize the model’s learning progression and detect signs of
overfitting, you can implement the plot_training_metrics() function in
Listing 5-10.
def plot_training_metrics(m):
    """Plot training metrics by epoch."""
    fig, axs = plt.subplots(2, figsize=(6, 4))
    axs[0].plot(m["epoch"], m["train_loss_epoch"], label="Train Loss")
    axs[0].plot(m["epoch"], m["val_loss_epoch"], label="Validation Loss")
    axs[0].set_xlabel("Epoch")
    axs[0].set_ylabel("Loss")
    axs[0].legend()
    axs[1].plot(m["epoch"], m["trainArgmaxJI_epoch"], label="Train JI")
    axs[1].plot(m["epoch"], m["valArgmaxJI_epoch"], label="Validation JI")
    axs[1].set_xlabel("Epoch")
    axs[1].set_ylabel("Jaccard Index (JI)")
    axs[1].legend()
    plt.tight_layout()
    plt.show()
Listing 5-10: The function to plot the training metrics
This function generates two plots: The first plot shows the loss on
the training and validation datasets over each training epoch, and the
second plot displays the Jaccard index for both datasets over the same
epochs.
Use this function with the following:
plot_training_metrics(metrics)
The resulting plots should look like Figure 5-3.

--- Strana 344 ---
Figure 5-3: The training and validation losses and Jaccard index showing overfitting
These curves show signs of overfitting. The top graph shows the
training loss decreasing steadily, while the validation loss decreases
initially but then plateaus and slightly increases, indicating the model’s
growing discrepancy in performance on training versus unseen data.
Similarly, the bottom graph depicts the Jaccard index; the training
metric improves consistently, but the validation metric plateaus,
highlighting a limit to the model’s generalization.
Preventing Overfitting
To mitigate the overfitting in the preceding section, you can use early
stopping, a technique that halts training when a monitored metric stops
improving. Listing 5-11 sets up early stopping in the training of the U-
Net.

--- Strana 345 ---
   from lightning.pytorch.callbacks import EarlyStopping
➊ early_stop_unet_reg = unet_reg_template.create()
   early_stop = EarlyStopping(monitor="valArgmaxJI_epoch", mode="max", 
patience=5)
   early_stop_logger = CSVLogger("logs", name="train_until_stagnation")
   early_stop_trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=100, logger=early_stop_logger, 
                                   callbacks=[early_stop])
➋ early_stop_trainer.fit(early_stop_unet_reg, train_loader, val_loader)
Listing 5-11: Training the U-Net with early stopping to prevent overfitting
This code first creates a new instance of the U-Net regressor ➊.
Then the code specifies the EarlyStopping callback, instructing it to
monitor the validation Jaccard index, maximize it, and halt training if no
improvement occurs after five epochs. The code sets up a new logger
called early_stop_logger to track the training process with early stopping.
Finally, the code prepares a trainer with the early stopping callback and
a maximum of 100 epochs and trains the new U-Net ➋.
You can then plot the training and validation metrics:
metrics = (pd.read_csv(os.path.join(early_stop_logger.log_dir, "metrics.csv"))
           .ffill())
plot_training_metrics(metrics)
This should generate plots similar to those in Figure 5-4.

--- Strana 346 ---
Figure 5-4: The training and validation losses and Jaccard index with early stopping to
prevent overfitting
You can visually confirm that early stopping has effectively
prevented the model from learning the noise and idiosyncrasies of the
training data, resulting in a model that is more likely to perform well on
unseen data.
Evaluating the Trained U-Net
Evaluating the performance of the trained U-Net on test data is
essential to confirm that the model can effectively generalize and
accurately segment unseen images.
You can calculate the predicted segmentation on the test data as
shown in Listing 5-12.
test_dataset = dt.pytorch.Dataset(pip, test_srcs)
test_loader = dl.DataLoader(test_dataset, batch_size=2, shuffle=False)

--- Strana 347 ---
trainer.test(early_stop_unet_reg, test_loader)
pred_seg = torch.cat(trainer.predict(early_stop_unet_reg, test_loader), dim=0)
Listing 5-12: Estimating the segmentations with the U-Net
This code defines test_dataset by using the previously defined pip data
pipeline, ensuring consistency in the preprocessing of the images. Then
a data loader called test_loader is created to manage the batch processing
of the test images. Finally, the code evaluates the trained U-Net on the
test dataset and aggregates the predictions for all test images into the
pred_seg tensor for further analysis.
You can visually compare the predicted segmentation with the
ground truth, using Listing 5-13.
➊ test_image, test_seg = test_dataset[0]
   fig, axs = plt.subplots(1, 3, figsize=((12, 9)))
   axs[0].imshow(test_image[0], cmap="gray")
   axs[0].set_title("Image", fontsize=24)
   axs[0].set_axis_off()
   axs[1].imshow(test_seg.argmax(dim=0))
   axs[1].set_title("Ground Truth", fontsize=24)
   axs[1].set_axis_off()
   axs[2].imshow(pred_seg[0].argmax(dim=0))
   axs[2].set_title("Prediction", fontsize=24)
   axs[2].set_axis_off() 
   plt.tight_layout()
   plt.show()
Listing 5-13: Plotting the U-Net result against the ground-truth segmentation
This code selects the first sample image and its corresponding
segmentation ➊ and then proceeds to plot the original image, the
ground-truth segmentation, and the predicted segmentation.
This generates Figure 5-5.

--- Strana 348 ---
Figure 5-5: The input tissue image (left), ground-truth segmentation (middle), and
segmentation generated by the U-Net (right)
Comparing the three panels reveals the U-Net’s segmentation
capabilities. On the left is the original ssTEM image of biological tissue,
while the center image displays the ground-truth segmentation with
various structures clearly outlined. The right image shows the
segmentation as predicted by the U-Net, which indeed appears quite
similar to the ground-truth segmentation. This similarity highlights the
effectiveness of the U-Net in accurately segmenting complex biological
structures.
For a more quantitative assessment, you can calculate the Jaccard
index of a test image:
ji_metric.reset()
ji_seg = ji_metric(pred_seg[0].unsqueeze(0), test_seg.unsqueeze(0))
To ensure that the accuracy metric is calculated from a clean slate, this
code resets the Jaccard index metric. Then the code calculates the
Jaccard index for the chosen image by comparing the model’s prediction
with the ground-truth label.
You can then use print(ji_seg) to print the Jaccard index for this
segmentation, which in our case is 0.861, a pretty good result. The U-
Net has successfully identified and delineated the regions of interest in
the tissue image.

--- Strana 349 ---
NOTE
Code Example 5-1, “Segmenting Biological Tissue Images,” is
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch05_UNet folder and then ec05_1_unet. The
unet.ipynb notebook provides a complete code example that segments
the images of a biological tissue by using a U-Net employing early
stopping to prevent overfitting.
EXERCISES
5-3:  Expand the segmentation classes beyond intracellular
regions and mitochondria by incorporating additional neuronal
structures. Adjust the label-processing pipeline accordingly and
retrain the U-Net. Assess the impact on the model’s performance
by reviewing the updated Jaccard index scores.
5-4:  As you might have noticed, some of the classes are highly
unbalanced; many more pixels belong to some classes than to
others. This can be problematic for training the model. Address
this problem by implementing weighted cross-entropy loss. Assign
weights inversely related to the class frequencies to ensure a
balanced influence on the loss calculation. Retrain your U-Net
with this new loss function and compare the outcomes against the
original model.
Project 5A: Detecting Quantum Dots in
Fluorescence Images
You’ll now solve a problem at the intersection of deep learning and
nano-technology: detecting and localizing quantum dots within

--- Strana 350 ---
fluorescence images. Quantum dots are nanometer-scale semiconductor
particles that exhibit unique optical and electronic properties, making
them invaluable in various scientific applications, from biological
labeling to quantum computing.
The ability to precisely identify and locate quantum dots is critical
in disciplines such as biology and materials science, where accurate
spatial information is paramount. By exploiting the U-Net’s exceptional
capacity to capture detailed spatial data, you’ll pinpoint the positions of
multiple quantum dots in an image acquired with a fluorescence
microscope.
Loading the Image
The first step in your quest to detect quantum dots is to load and
inspect an image captured through fluorescence microscopy. This type
of imaging is particularly adept at revealing the presence of quantum
dots because they emit fluorescence when exposed to light of certain
wavelengths.
You can load and display an image of quantum dots with Listing 5-
14.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from PIL import Image
image_of_particles = Image.open("frame_with_qdots.tif")
plt.figure(figsize=(10, 10))
plt.imshow(image_of_particles, vmin=100, vmax=200, cmap="gray")
plt.show()
Listing 5-14: Loading and plotting a fluorescence image of a quantum dot
This code loads the image in the frame_with_qdots.tif file by using
the Pillow (PIL) library. The code then visualizes the image with a
specific colormap and intensity range to enhance the visibility of the
quantum dots against the background.
Figure 5-6 shows a plot of the fluorescence microscopy image.

--- Strana 351 ---
Figure 5-6: A fluorescence image of quantum dots
You can see a field of quantum dots scattered across the visual plane.
Each quantum dot appears as a bright, circular spot, varying slightly in
size and luminosity, against the dark, homogeneous background. You’ll
exploit the U-Net’s ability to perform pixel-wise classification to discern
these luminous points from the surrounding darkness.

--- Strana 352 ---
Simulating Quantum Dots
In this section, you’ll create realistic, computer-generated images of
quantum dots that mimic the experimental data. This simulation is a
crucial step, because it’ll allow you to generate a large dataset to train
the U-Net without the need for extensive manual labeling of real
images.
Image Cropping
The initial step in simulating images of quantum dots is isolating a
single quantum dot to understand its characteristics. You can do this
with Listing 5-15.
x0, y0, crop_size = 178, 271, 50
crop = image_of_particles.crop((x0, y0, x0 + crop_size, y0 + crop_size))
plt.figure(figsize=(5, 5))
plt.imshow(crop, vmin=100, vmax=200, cmap="gray")
plt.show()
Listing 5-15: Extracting and plotting a crop with a single quantum dot
This code extracts a small region from the larger fluorescence image
to focus on a single quantum dot, specified by the top-left corner
coordinates (x0 and y0) and the size of the crop (crop_size). The resulting
crop is then displayed, as shown in the left panel of Figure 5-7.

--- Strana 353 ---
Figure 5-7: Comparing the experimental (left) and simulated (middle) quantum dot images,
and their pixel-value histograms (right)
The leftmost image is a close-up view of a single quantum dot
captured by fluorescence microscopy. The isolated quantum dot appears
bright against the darker background, exemplifying the characteristic
fluorescence of these nanometric particles when excited by light of an
appropriate wavelength. This zoomed-in perspective gives you the
intensity profile and size of the image of the quantum dot, which you’ll
use as a benchmark for the subsequent simulation process.
A Single Quantum Dot
Now let’s prepare a simulation pipeline to create images of quantum
dots similar to the left panel of Figure 5-7. You can do this with Listing
5-16.
import deeptrack as dt
import numpy as np
optics = dt.Fluorescence(
    wavelength=600 * dt.units.nm, NA=0.9, magnification=1, 
    resolution=0.11 * dt.units.um, output_region=(0, 0, 50, 50),
)
particle = dt.PointParticle(position=(25, 25), intensity=1.2e4, z=0)
sim_im_pip = optics(particle) >> dt.Add(30) >> np.random.poisson >> dt.Add(82)
Listing 5-16: Defining the pipeline to simulate the image of a single quantum dot

--- Strana 354 ---
This code constructs a simulation pipeline that replicates the
conditions under which quantum dots emit fluorescence. The pipeline
starts with the optical setting specifications of a fluorescence
microscope, an instance of Fluorescence saved in the optics variable. These
settings include the wavelength of the light, the numerical aperture
(NA) of the lens system, the magnification factor, and the resolution of
the imaging system. The output region is defined to constrain the field
of view to a 50×50–pixel area, which is suitable for capturing the image
of a single quantum dot.
Quantum dots have a negligible physical size with respect to the
point spread function of the microscope (which determines the
resolution limit, as anything smaller than the point spread function will
appear as a bright spot in the microscopy image). Because of this, they
can be simulated as point emitters. Therefore, a PointParticle instance
saved in the particle variable is created to simulate a quantum dot with a
fixed position at the center of this region and a specified intensity
similar to the brightness of an actual quantum dot.
Once the optical system and quantum dot properties are established,
the sim_im_pip simulation pipeline applies a sequence of operations to
render the image. The fluorescence signal generated by the quantum
dot is first increased by adding a constant background level.
Subsequently, a Poisson noise is applied to introduce realistic signal
fluctuations, followed by another increment to simulate the offset
inherent in imaging detectors.
To validate the efficacy of your simulation pipeline, compare the
experimental image of a single quantum dot with a simulated
counterpart, using Listing 5-17.
➊ sim_im_pip.update()
➋ sim_im = sim_im_pip()
   plt.figure(figsize=(12, 4))
   plt.subplot(1, 3, 1)
➌ plt.imshow(crop, cmap="gray", vmin=100, vmax=250)
   plt.title("Experimental particle", fontsize=16)

--- Strana 355 ---
   plt.subplot(1, 3, 2)
➍ plt.imshow(sim_im, cmap="gray", vmin=100, vmax=250)
   plt.title("Simulated particle", fontsize=16)
   plt.subplot(1, 3, 3)
➎ plt.hist(np.array(crop).flatten(), bins=100, label="Experimental", alpha=0.5)
➏ plt.hist(np.array(sim_im).flatten(), bins=100, label="Simulated",
            histtype="step", color="black", linewidth=2)   
   plt.xlabel("Intensity", fontsize=16)
   plt.xlim([80, 180])
   plt.ylabel("Count", fontsize=16)
   plt.legend()
   plt.tight_layout()
   plt.show()
Listing 5-17: Comparing experimental and simulated images of quantum dots
This code updates the simulation pipeline ➊ and creates a new
image ➋. Then the code plots the experimental image ➌, the simulated
image ➍, and a comparison of their respective pixel-value histograms ➎
➏.
The resulting plots are shown in Figure 5-7. The left panel shows
the experimental image of the quantum dot you cropped with Listing 5-
15. The middle image shows the simulated image generated by the
pipeline in Listing 5-16. Both the experimental ➌ and simulated ➍
images are scaled to the same intensity values for an accurate
comparison. The close resemblance between the experimental and
simulated images shows the realism of the simulations produced by the
pipeline. To assess this similarity more quantitatively, you can plot the
pixel-intensity profile along the x- and y-directions at the center of both
the experimental and simulated images.
The histogram on the right of Figure 5-7 compares the pixel values,
highlighting the distribution of intensity values within each image. The
histogram shows the frequency of pixel intensities, allowing you to

--- Strana 356 ---
evaluate whether the simulation accurately reproduces the intensity
distribution of a real quantum dot.
Multiple Quantum Dots
Now you’ll expand your pipeline to simulate multiple quantum dots
within the same image, as shown in Listing 5-18.
   --snip--
   optics = dt.Fluorescence(..., output_region=(0, 0, 128, 128))
   particle = dt.PointParticle(
       position=lambda: np.random.uniform(0, 128, size=2),
       intensity=lambda: np.random.uniform(6e3, 3e4), 
       z=lambda: np.random.uniform(-1.5, 1.5) * dt.units.um,
   )
➊ postprocess = (dt.Add(lambda: np.random.uniform(20, 40)) >> np.random.poisson 
                  >> dt.Add(lambda: np.random.uniform(70, 90)))
➋ normalization = dt.AsType("float") >> dt.Subtract(110) >> dt.Divide(250)
   particles = particle ^ (lambda: np.random.randint(10, 20))
   sim_im_pip = optics(particles) >> postprocess >> normalization
Listing 5-18: Updating the simulation pipeline to create images of multiple quantum dots
(by modifying Listing 5-16)
This enhanced sim_im_pip pipeline begins by defining a larger output
region, allowing for the simulation of multiple quantum dots within a
128×128– pixel frame. The pipeline then assigns random values within
specified ranges to the position, intensity, and z-coordinate of the
quantum dot generated by particle.
The simulation pipeline applies post-processing steps ➊ to
introduce realistic noise and background signals into the simulated
images. These steps include adding a uniform random offset to
represent the baseline detector signal, applying a Poisson noise model to
simulate photon shot noise, and finally adding another random offset to
represent detector readout noise. The simulated images are then
normalized ➋ to match the intensity range of the experimental data.
The PointParticle instances are created in a number that varies
randomly from 10 to 20 for each simulated frame, simulating the

--- Strana 357 ---
random distribution of quantum dots. The entire simulation pipeline is
then applied to these particle instances to generate the final simulated
image.
After simulating the image of the quantum dots, you need to
simulate the ground-truth mask, which will be the target output of the
U-Net. This mask delineates the exact locations of the quantum dots,
which is crucial for the subsequent training of the U-Net. Listing 5-19
shows the mask-generation pipeline.
sim_mask_pip = (particles
                >> dt.SampleToMasks(lambda: lambda particle: particle > 0,
                                    output_region=optics.output_region, 
                                    merge_method="or")
                >> dt.AsType("int") >> dt.OneHot(num_classes=2))
Listing 5-19: Defining the simulation pipeline for the output mask
The pipeline to generate the ground-truth mask begins by taking
the simulated particles and applying the SampleToMasks function. This
function is passed a lambda function that defines the condition for a
pixel to be considered part of a quantum dot, which in this case is simply
whether the particle’s value exceeds 0. The SampleToMasks function also
specifies the dimensions of output_region to match those of the simulated
image and uses a logical "or" operation to merge overlapping dots into a
single mask. This ensures that each quantum dot, regardless of overlap,
is clearly marked for the U-Net to learn.
After the binary mask is created, it’s converted to an integer data
type via dt.AsType("int"), which is suitable for one-hot encoding. The
one-hot-encoding process (dt.OneHot(num_classes=2)) then transforms the
binary mask into a categorical format that represents each pixel with a
binary vector indicating its class membership. In this context, the two
classes are Background and Quantum Dot, corresponding to the
absence or presence of a quantum dot at each pixel location,
respectively.
Finally, the simulation pipelines for the quantum dot image and the
ground-truth mask are combined into a single pipeline that you’ll use to
train the U-Net, as shown in Listing 5-20.

--- Strana 358 ---
import torch
sim_im_mask_pip = ((sim_im_pip & sim_mask_pip) >> dt.MoveAxis(2, 0)
                   >> dt.pytorch.ToTensor(dtype=torch.float))
Listing 5-20: Combining the pipelines for the quantum dot image and the ground-truth mask
This code merges the two pipelines into a single one, rearranges
their dimensions to match the format expected by PyTorch, and
converts the data into PyTorch tensors.
Plot the simulated image and corresponding ground-truth mask side
by side, using Listing 5-21.
sim_im, sim_mask = sim_im_mask_pip.update().resolve()
plt.figure(figsize=(12, 6))
plt.subplot(1, 2, 1)
plt.imshow(sim_im.squeeze(), cmap="gray")
plt.title("Simulated image", fontsize=16)
plt.subplot(1, 2, 2)
plt.imshow(sim_mask[1], cmap="gray")
plt.title("Localization map", fontsize=16)
plt.tight_layout()
plt.show()
Listing 5-21: Plotting the simulated image and corresponding ground-truth mask
The resulting figure should look similar to Figure 5-8.

--- Strana 359 ---
Figure 5-8: The simulated image (left) and corresponding mask (right)
This is a side-by-side comparison of a simulated fluorescence image
with quantum dots (left) and the corresponding localization mask
(right). In the simulated image, each quantum dot appears as a distinct,
bright spot against the dark background, resembling the appearance of
real fluorescence microscopy images. The localization mask, in contrast,
offers a binary view; each quantum dot is marked by a white pixel on a
black background. The stark contrast shown in the localization mask is
desirable because it clearly delineates the quantum dots from the
background, making it easier for the U-Net to learn and accurately
identify these locations.
Defining and Training the U-Net
Now that you’ve defined the data pipelines, it’s time to define and train
your U-Net to detect the quantum dots. Define the U-Net as follows:
import deeplay as dl
unet = dl.UNet2d(in_channels=1, channels=[32, 64], out_channels=2)

--- Strana 360 ---
This is a U-Net with a single input channel for grayscale images and
two output channels corresponding to the predicted classes:
Background and Quantum Dots. The architecture features an
increasing number of channels in its layers, starting with 32 and
progressing to 64, allowing for the extraction of complex features at
various levels of abstraction. For a detailed overview of the U-Net
structure, you can print the model summary with print(unet).
To compile the U-Net, encapsulate it within a Regressor object:
unet_reg = dl.Regressor(
    model=unet, loss=torch.nn.CrossEntropyLoss(weight=torch.tensor([1, 10])),
    optimizer=dl.Adam(),
).create()
Given that the background (represented by 0s) vastly outnumbers the
quantum dot pixels, a naïve loss function could bias the network to
predict only the background, ignoring the quantum dots entirely. To
counteract this, this code uses a weighted CrossEntropyLoss function to
assign a higher weight to the quantum dot class, thus amplifying the
penalty for false negatives (cases of the network failing to identify a
quantum dot) compared to false positives. This approach encourages the
network to prioritize the detection of quantum dots.
NOTE
The necessity of using a weighted loss function influenced the decision
to represent the output image with two channels, each dedicated to a
distinct class. Dealing with a binary classification problem, a single
output channel with pixel values of 0 or 1 might have sufficed (you’ll
see this strategy in Project 5B). However, in such a scenario, it would
have been necessary to use the binary cross-entropy loss, which lacks
direct control over class weights.
You’re now ready to train your U-Net with Listing 5-22.
train_dataset = dt.pytorch.Dataset(sim_im_mask_pip, length=320, replace=.1)
data_loader = dl.DataLoader(train_dataset, batch_size=32)

--- Strana 361 ---
unet_trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=50, accelerator="auto")
unet_trainer.fit(unet_reg, data_loader)
Listing 5-22: Training the U-Net
This code creates a train_dataset to feed batches of simulated images
and masks to the model via a data loader. A Trainer object orchestrates
the training process over 50 epochs, automatically utilizing the best
available hardware, while the fit() method updates the model
parameters to enhance the generation of a mask highlighting the
positions of the quantum dots.
Evaluating the Trained U-Net
You can now apply the trained U-Net to the experimental image loaded
at the beginning of this project.
To do this, you need to extract the centroid positions, which are the
geometric centers of the segmented regions, from the predicted binary
masks. You can do this with the mask_to_positions() function shown in
Listing 5-23.
import skimage as sk
def mask_to_positions(mask):
    """Convert binary mask to centroid array."""
    labels = sk.measure.label(mask)
    props = sk.measure.regionprops(labels)
    return np.array([prop.centroid for prop in props])
Listing 5-23: The function to convert a binary mask into an array of centroid positions
This function converts a binary mask into an array of centroid
positions corresponding to each labeled region within the mask. The
function labels each connected region in the binary mask (labels),
calculates the properties of these labeled regions (props), and returns the
centroid coordinates for each region.
You can now analyze the experimental image, using Listing 5-24.

--- Strana 362 ---
➊ image_of_particles_tensor = torch.from_numpy(
       (np.array(image_of_particles).astype(np.float32) - 110) / 250
   ).unsqueeze(0)
➋ pred_mask = unet_reg(image_of_particles_tensor.unsqueeze(0)).detach()
   pred_mask = torch.nn.functional.softmax(pred_mask, dim=1)
➌ positions = mask_to_positions(pred_mask[0, 1, ...] > 0.5)
   plt.figure(figsize=(10, 10))
➍ plt.imshow(image_of_particles, vmin=100, vmax=200, cmap="gray")   
➎ plt.scatter(positions[:, 1], positions[:, 0], s=100, facecolors="none",
               edgecolors=(0.0039, 0.45, 0.70))
   plt.show()
Listing 5-24: Applying the trained U-Net to an experimental image
This code starts by preprocessing the experimental image to match
the input requirements of the U-Net model, adjusting the pixel
intensities to the normalized range used during training ➊. The
preprocessed image is then fed into the trained U-Net model, which
predicts the segmentation mask ➋. The output of the model is further
processed with the softmax() function to determine the probability of
each pixel representing a quantum dot.
The softmax output is converted into a binary mask by thresholding,
and then into an array of centroid positions ➌. These centroids
represent the localized positions of the detected quantum dots. The
experimental image is subsequently displayed ➍, with the localized
positions overlaid as scatter points ➎. This visualization accentuates the
quantum dots that the U-Net has successfully detected, providing an
intuitive and immediate assessment of the model’s detection capabilities
on real experimental data.
The resulting plot should look similar to Figure 5-9.

--- Strana 363 ---
Figure 5-9: Quantum dot detections in an experimental image
Each detection is marked by a circular outline, allowing for a direct
comparison of the U-Net’s predicted localizations against the actual
quantum dots visible in the fluorescence image. Overall, the U-Net
appears to be performing pretty well on this experimental data.
NOTE

--- Strana 364 ---
Code Example 5-A, “Detecting Quantum Dots,” is available at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate 
to 
the 
Ch05_UNet 
folder 
and 
then
ec05_A_qdots_localization. 
The 
qdots_localization.ipynb
notebook provides a complete code example that trains a U-Net to
determine the positions of quantum dots in experimental images
acquired with a fluorescence microscope.
Project 5B: Counting Cells
In this project, you’ll use a U-Net to count cells, an essential task in
many biological and medical applications. In fact, precisely quantifying
cell numbers in cellular cultures is critical for evaluating growth rates,
responses to treatments, and cell behavior in various conditions. This
project will show you how to automate the cell-counting process.
You’ll also explore techniques to simulate realistic images of cell
nuclei, going beyond the relatively simple particles you’ve simulated
until now in previous projects. You’ll see again the value of simulations
for creating large, annotated datasets to train deep learning models
without the labor-intensive process of manual annotation.
Loading the Dataset
For this project, you’ll use the BBBC039v1 dataset, curated by Juan C.
Caicedo and co-workers (2018) and made publicly available through the
Broad Bioimage Benchmark Collection. This dataset consists of 200
high-resolution fields of view, capturing cell nuclei stained with Hoechst
dye and imaged via fluorescence microscopy, a widely used technique
for visualizing cell nuclei. Each image is carefully annotated,
encompassing approximately 23,000 individual nuclei, providing a
robust ground truth for segmentation and counting. Stored in .tif
format, these images are 520×696 pixels with 16-bit depth, offering rich
detail for analysis. The dataset also includes ground-truth annotations in
.png format, encoding masks that uniquely identify each nucleus.

--- Strana 365 ---
You can use Listing 5-25 to download the dataset and prepare the
sources to access its files.
   import os
   import deeptrack as dt
   if not os.path.exists("cell_counting_dataset"):
       os.system("git clone 
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/cell_counting_dataset")
   directory = os.path.join("cell_counting_dataset", "cell nuclei")   
 ➊ image_paths = dt.sources.ImageFolder(root=os.path.join(directory, "images"))
 ➋ mask_paths = dt.sources.ImageFolder(root=os.path.join(directory, "masks"))
   sources = dt.sources.Source(image=image_paths, label=mask_paths)
Listing 5-25: Loading the dataset
This code begins by cloning the repository containing the dataset
into the cell_counting_dataset folder. The code then defines the paths for
loading the images ➊ and the corresponding segmentation masks ➋.
Finally, these two sources are combined into a single Source, which
provides a unified interface for accessing both the images and their
corresponding segmentation masks. To verify that 200 images have been
loaded, use the print(len(sources)) command.
Creating a Pipeline
Next, you’ll implement a pipeline to load the images and the
corresponding segmentation masks, as shown in Listing 5-26.
   import deeplay as dl
   import numpy as np
   import torch
   image_pip = (dt.LoadImage(sources.image.path) >> dt.Divide(3000) 
                >> dt.Clip(0, 1) >> dt.AsType("float"))
   mask_pip = dt.LoadImage(sources.label.path)[..., :1] >> dt.AsType("float")
➊ pip = ((image_pip & mask_pip) >> dt.Crop(crop=(512, 688, None), corner=(0, 0))

--- Strana 366 ---
          >> dt.MoveAxis(2, 0) >> dt.pytorch.ToTensor(dtype=torch.float))
   test_dataset = dt.pytorch.Dataset(pip, sources)
   test_loader = dl.DataLoader(test_dataset, batch_size=32, shuffle=False)
Listing 5-26: Creating a pipeline to load the images and labels
This code constructs a data pipeline for loading and preprocessing
the images and their corresponding segmentation masks.
First, the image_pip pipeline is established to load the images from the
specified paths, normalize their intensity values by dividing each pixel
by 3,000, clip the resulting values to the range of 0 to 1, and convert the
data type to floating-point numbers. Similarly, the code defines the
mask_pip pipeline to load the segmentation masks, select only the first
channel, and convert them to floating-point numbers.
The code then combines image_pip and mask_pip to ensure that each
image is processed alongside its corresponding segmentation mask ➊.
The combined pipeline further processes the data by cropping each
image and mask pair to a fixed size, rearranging the axes to match
PyTorch’s expected input format, and converting the data into PyTorch
tensors.
Finally, the processed images and segmentation masks are wrapped
into a PyTorch Dataset object, which provides a standardized interface
for accessing the data. This dataset is then used to create a DataLoader
object, enabling efficient batch processing. You’ll use this data loader to
test your U-Net after it’s trained.
Counting the Number of Cells
To count the cells in the images, you’ll use the number of connected
components in the segmentation masks. This method identifies clusters
of adjacent pixels that represent individual cell nuclei. By labeling these
components with unique identifiers, you can easily count the total
number of cells. You can do this with Listing 5-27.
from skimage import morphology as skmorph

--- Strana 367 ---
image, mask = test_dataset[np.random.choice(len(test_dataset))]
labeled_mask = skmorph.label(mask)
number_of_cells = labeled_mask.max()
Listing 5-27: Counting cells by using connected components
This code demonstrates how to count cells in an image by using the
connected components method. The code selects a random image and
its corresponding mask from the dataset, labels each unique cell nucleus
within the mask with progressive integer numbers, and calculates the
total number of cells as the maximum label value.
Visualizing the Data
Now let’s take a closer look at the images and their segmentation masks
by plotting them with Listing 5-28.
   from matplotlib import pyplot as plt
    
   fig, axs = plt.subplots(1, 3, figsize=(10, 3))
➊ axs[0].imshow(image.permute(1, 2, 0), vmin=0, vmax=1, cmap="gray")
➋ axs[1].imshow(mask.permute(1, 2, 0), vmin=0, vmax=1, cmap="gray")
➌ axs[1].set_title(f"Number of cells = {number_of_cells}", fontsize=16)
   axs[1].axis("off")
➍ axs[2].hist(np.array(image).flatten(), bins=200, range=(0, 1))
   axs[2].set_xlabel("Pixel Intensity", fontsize=12)
   axs[2].set_xlim([0, 1])
   axs[2].set_ylabel("Log Frequency", fontsize=12)
   axs[2].set_yscale("log")
   axs[2].set_title("Pixel Intensity Distribution", fontsize=16)
   plt.tight_layout()
   plt.show()
Listing 5-28: Visualizing the data

--- Strana 368 ---
This code displays the original image ➊ and its segmentation mask
➋ with the cell count indicated in the title ➌. Additionally, a histogram
of the image’s pixel intensities is plotted to illustrate the distribution of
values ➍, providing insights into the image’s contrast and brightness
levels. The histogram information is particularly useful for generating
simulated images to train the U-Net model effectively, ensuring that the
simulations are representative of the experimental conditions.
The resulting plot should look like Figure 5-10. Note that each time
the code is run, it will plot the figure for a different image randomly
picked from the dataset.
Figure 5-10: An image of cell nuclei (left), the corresponding segmentation mask (middle),
and a pixel-value histogram (right)
The grayscale image on the left shows several cell nuclei, each one
appearing as an individual, bright object against a dark background. The
middle image shows the corresponding segmentation mask, with the
outlines of each cell nucleus highlighted in white, providing a clear
contrast against the background. This mask is used to identify and count
the cell nuclei.
On the right is a histogram of the pixel-intensity distribution from
the original cell image. The histogram, plotted on a semilogarithmic
scale, shows that the majority of pixels are in the lower intensity range,
which corresponds to the background, while a smaller peak represents
the brighter nucleus regions. This histogram is useful for understanding
the contrast within the image and setting appropriate thresholds for
image segmentation and cell counting.

--- Strana 369 ---
Simulating the Cell Images
The next essential step is to create a dataset that can be used to train
your U-Net for automated cell counting. By simulating images of nuclei
and their corresponding segmentation masks, you’ll be able to train the
U-Net to generate segmentation masks, which can then be analyzed
using the connected components method you mastered in the previous
section. This simulation process will allow you to generate large
volumes of training data, essential for the network to learn the task of
segmenting the images.
Cell Nuclei
You can start by simulating images of ellipses. In this simplistic
rendition of a cell nucleus, each ellipse may vary in orientation, position,
and intensity, reflecting the diversity that might be seen in a population
of real cells under fluorescence imaging. The corresponding code is in
Listing 5-29.
train_image_size = 256
def random_ellipse_axes():
    """Return the three axes of an ellipse."""
    ellipse_area = (np.random.uniform(3, 4)) ** 2
    radius_ratio = np.random.uniform(1, 1.5)
    major_axis = np.sqrt(ellipse_area) * radius_ratio
    minor_axis = np.sqrt(ellipse_area) / radius_ratio
    z_axis = np.sqrt(ellipse_area) * np.random.uniform(0.2, 0.4)
    return (major_axis, minor_axis, z_axis) * dt.units.um
ellipse = dt.Ellipsoid(
    radius=random_ellipse_axes, 
 ➊ intensity=lambda: np.random.uniform(0.5, 1.5),
 ➋ position=lambda: np.random.uniform(5, train_image_size - 5, size=2), 
 ➌ rotation=lambda: np.random.uniform(0, 2 * np.pi),
)
optics = dt.Fluorescence(
    resolution=1e-6, magnification=6, wavelength=400e-9, 

--- Strana 370 ---
    NA=lambda: np.random.uniform(0.9, 1.1), 
    output_region=(0, 0, train_image_size, train_image_size),
)
sim_im_pip = optics(ellipse)
fig, axs = plt.subplots(1, 5, figsize=(10, 2))
for i, ax in enumerate(axs):
 ➍ sim_im_pip.update()
 ➎ image = sim_im_pip()
 ➏ ax.imshow(image, cmap="gray")
    if i != 0: ax.axis("off")
plt.tight_layout()
plt.show()
Listing 5-29: Simulating a single cell nucleus as an ellipse
This code starts by defining the random_ellipse_axes() function to
obtain the axes of an ellipse generated from a random distribution. The
code then uses this function to create an Ellipsoid object representing an
ellipse with random axes, setting an intensity range ➊, and positioning it
within the image ➋, while allowing for random rotation ➌.
Subsequently, the code passes this Ellipsoid object through a simulated
fluorescence microscope (optics). Finally, the sim_im_pip pipeline is
created, representing the complete simulation process. This pipeline is
iteratively updated ➍ and used to obtain an image ➎, which is then
visualized ➏.
Figure 5-11 shows some examples of the obtained images.
Figure 5-11: The images with a single cell nucleus simulated as an ellipse
These images, although much simplified, serve as initial
approximations of the complexity of real nuclear shapes and textures

--- Strana 371 ---
found in microscopy images.
To make the images more realistic, you can make the simulated
nuclei more irregular and numerous by deforming them elastically,
updating the code as shown in Listing 5-30.
--snip--
ellipse = dt.Ellipsoid(...)
synthetic_nuclei = (
 ➊ (ellipse ^ (lambda: np.random.randint(5, 10)))
 ➋ >> dt.Pad(px=(10, 10, 10, 10), keep_size=False)
 ➌ >> dt.ElasticTransformation(alpha=100, sigma=10, order=1)
 ➍ >> dt.CropTight()
)
--snip--
sim_im_pip = optics(synthetic_nuclei)
--snip--
Listing 5-30: Simulating multiple nuclei as ellipses with elastic deformations (by modifying
Listing 5-29)
This code enhances the realism of the previously simulated images
by combining multiple ellipses representing diverse cell nuclei ➊ and by
introducing elastic deformations to simulate the irregular shapes found
in actual cells ➌. Padding is added to ensure that the deformations don’t
cause the nuclei to be cropped ➋. After the transformation, the code
removes the padding, bringing the nuclei back to their original size ➍.
This group of synthetic nuclei is then passed through the previously
defined optical system (optics), which models the microscope’s imaging
process, to generate the final image.
Figure 5-12 shows examples of the resulting images.

--- Strana 372 ---
Figure 5-12: The images with multiple nuclei simulated as deformed ellipses
The irregular contours and varying sizes of the nuclei in these
simulations mimic the natural heterogeneity seen in biological
specimens, enhancing the authenticity of the training dataset.
To make the simulated images even more realistic, you can add
noise, as shown in Listing 5-31.
   --snip--
   synthetic_nuclei = (...)
➊ synthetic_nuclei_mask = synthetic_nuclei > 0
   long_range_noise = (synthetic_nuclei >> dt.Poisson(snr=0.2)
                        >> dt.GaussianBlur(sigma=3.5))
   short_range_noise = (synthetic_nuclei >> dt.Poisson(snr=1.0)
                        >> dt.GaussianBlur(sigma=1.5))
   random_range_noise = (
       synthetic_nuclei
       >> dt.Poisson(snr=lambda: np.random.uniform(0.5, 1.5))
       >> dt.GaussianBlur(sigma=lambda: np.random.uniform(0.75, 1.5))
   )
➋ noisy_synthetic_nuclei = (
       synthetic_nuclei_mask
       * (long_range_noise + short_range_noise + random_range_noise) / 3
   ) 
   --snip--
➌ sim_im_pip = optics(noisy_synthetic_nuclei)
   --snip--
Listing 5-31: Simulating multiple nuclei as ellipses with elastic deformations and noise (by
modifying Listing 5-30)
This code further enhances the realism of the simulated images by
adding different types of noise to the deformed elliptical nuclei. The

--- Strana 373 ---
code begins by creating a mask of the synthetic nucleus ➊, which serves
as a base for applying noise. Three kinds of noise are generated:
long_range_noise, short_range_noise, and random_range_noise, each with varying
SNRs and Gaussian blur parameters to mimic the texture of biological
nuclei and the imperfections in imaging. These noise patterns are
combined and applied to the synthetic mask ➋ to create noisy synthetic
nuclei, which are then processed through the fluorescence microscope
➌ to produce the final noisy synthetic nucleus images. This process
creates images that more closely resemble experimental images by
including common artifacts and variations seen in actual microscopy.
Figure 5-13 shows examples of the generated images.
Figure 5-13: The images with multiple nuclei simulated as noisy deformed ellipses
The noise you added to the nuclei introduces variability and texture,
more closely resembling the complexity found in real microscopy
images. However, the background remains uniformly black, which isn’t
representative of actual images because the background would typically
contain some level of noise or artifacts. Additionally, the nuclei are
occasionally overlapping, which can be problematic for accurate cell
counting as it might lead to underestimating the actual number of cells
present.
In a last effort to enhance the realism of the simulated images, you
can prevent overlaps between nuclei and add noise to the background,
as shown in Listing 5-32.
--snip--
noisy_synthetic_nuclei = (...)
non_overlap_nuclei = dt.NonOverlapping(noisy_synthetic_nuclei, min_distance=-6)
--snip--

--- Strana 374 ---
sim_im_pip = (optics(non_overlap_nuclei)
              >> dt.Gaussian(sigma=lambda: np.random.uniform(0, 0.1))
              >> dt.Divide(lambda: np.random.uniform(14, 20))
              >> dt.Add(lambda: np.random.uniform(-0.05, 0.15))
              >> dt.Clip(0, 1) >> dt.AsType("float"))
    --snip--
Listing 5-32: Simulating multiple nuclei as nonoverlapping ellipses with elastic deformations
and noise (by modifying Listing 5-31)
This code enhances the simulation by ensuring that the synthetic
nuclei don’t overlap, creating a more realistic scenario for cell counting.
The min_distance parameter adjusts the nuclei to maintain a specified
minimum distance, which can be negative to allow slight overlaps. The
sim_im_pip pipeline then adds noise to the background with a Gaussian
distribution, normalizes the image intensity by dividing it, adds a
random offset to the intensity, and ensures that the pixel values are
clipped to the range 0 to 1. Finally, the images are converted to the
floating-point type.
Figure 5-14 shows some of the results.
Figure 5-14: The images with multiple nuclei simulated as nonoverlapping, noisy, deformed
ellipses
In these simulated images, each nucleus is distinct and separate,
mostly avoiding overlaps. Noise has been added to both the nuclei and
the background, which gives the images a more natural look that closely
resembles real microscopy images. The shapes of the nuclei are varied
and realistic, thanks to the applied elastic deformations. These
improvements make the simulated images much more similar to actual
images, which is helpful for training a model like the U-Net to count
cells accurately.

--- Strana 375 ---
Segmentation Masks
To complement the simulated images, you need to generate
corresponding segmentation masks to serve as the target images for the
U-Net. These masks will allow the U-Net to identify and count the
individual cells by delineating their nuclei. You can do this with Listing
5-33.
def get_mask(radius):
    """Apply isotropic erosion to a binary mask."""
    def inner(mask):
     ➊ mask = np.sum(mask, -1, keepdims=True) > 0
     ➋ mask = np.pad(mask, [(1, 1), (1, 1), (0, 0)], mode="constant")
     ➌ mask = skmorph.isotropic_erosion(mask, radius=radius)
     ➍ return mask[1:-1, 1:-1]
    return inner
sim_mask_pip = (
    non_overlap_nuclei
    >> dt.SampleToMasks(get_mask, radius=6, output_region=optics.output_region,
                        merge_method="or")
    >> dt.AsType("float")
)
Listing 5-33: Simulating the segmentation masks
This code creates the sim_mask_pip pipeline to generate the
segmentation masks. The custom get_mask() function defines the isotropic
erosion, a procedure that shrinks the objects in the mask to separate
individual nuclei. Within the nested inner() function, the binary mask is
created ➊, padded ➋, eroded ➌, and then the padding is removed ➍,
leaving a clean mask of the nuclei. Then, sim_mask_pip combines these
steps and converts the masks to a floating-point type, preparing them
for use as training targets for the U-Net model.
Combined Pipeline
The final step before training your U-Net is to combine the simulated
nucleus images and their corresponding segmentation masks into a

--- Strana 376 ---
single pipeline. This will create a comprehensive dataset, pairing each
image with its mask for effective supervised learning. You can do this
with Listing 5-34.
sim_im_mask_pip = ((sim_im_pip & sim_mask_pip) >> dt.MoveAxis(2, 0)
           >> dt.pytorch.ToTensor(dtype=torch.float))
train_dataset = dt.pytorch.Dataset(sim_im_mask_pip, length=640, replace=0.01)
Listing 5-34: Combining the image and segmentation pipelines and creating the training
dataset
This code merges the image and label pipelines and then reshapes
the merged data to fit the expected input format for PyTorch models.
The resulting training dataset is a collection of image-mask pairs, ready
to be fed into the U-Net for training.
You can visualize the results of your simulation process with Listing
5-35.
➊ sim_im, sim_mask = train_dataset[np.random.choice(len(train_dataset))]
   fig, axs = plt.subplots(1, 3, figsize=(12, 4))
➋ axs[0].imshow(sim_im.permute(1, 2, 0), vmin=0, vmax=1, cmap="gray")
   axs[0].set_title("Simulated Image", fontsize=20)
➌ axs[1].imshow(sim_mask.permute(1, 2, 0), vmin=0, vmax=1, cmap="gray")
   axs[1].set_title("Simulated Mask", fontsize=20)
   axs[1].axis("off")
➍ axs[2].hist(np.array(sim_im).flatten(), bins=200, range=(0, 1))
   axs[2].set_xlabel("Pixel Intensity", fontsize=16)
   axs[2].set_xlim([0, 1])
   axs[2].set_ylabel("Log Frequency", fontsize=16)
   axs[2].set_yscale("log")
   axs[2].set_title("Pixel Intensity Distribution", fontsize=20)

--- Strana 377 ---
   plt.tight_layout()
   plt.show()
Listing 5-35: Visualizing a simulated image and its corresponding segmentation mask
This code retrieves a simulated image and its mask ➊ and displays
them side by side ➋ ➌. This visualization confirms that the simulated
images and masks are correctly aligned. Then the code plots a
histogram of the pixel intensities ➍ to assess their distribution.
Figure 5-15 shows the resulting plots.
Figure 5-15: The simulated image of cells (left), its corresponding segmentation mask
(middle), and a pixel-value histogram (right)
In this typical output of a simulation, you can see a side-by-side
comparison of the simulated image and its corresponding segmentation
mask, alongside a histogram that analyzes the pixel-intensity
distribution. This histogram of the simulated images reveals a
distribution of pixel intensities that mirrors those observed in
experimental images, shown previously in Figure 5-10. This agreement
is crucial, as it suggests that the simulated data provides a realistic
approximation of the actual imaging conditions, including variability in
nucleus appearance and background noise.
Implementing and Training the U-Net
Now that you’ve ensured that the simulated images and their intensity
distributions match those of real experimental scenarios, you’re ready to

--- Strana 378 ---
train a robust U-Net. Start by instantiating a U-Net:
unet = dl.UNet2d(in_channels=1, channels=[16, 32, 64], out_channels=1)
This U-Net is configured to process single-channel (grayscale) images,
featuring a contracting path with a progressively increasing number of
channels to capture context at various scales (the expansion path will
have the same channel numbers in reverse), and designed to output a
single-channel segmentation mask. By using the print(unet) command,
you can examine the detailed architecture of the instantiated U-Net,
including the dimensions of each layer and the total number of trainable
parameters.
Now, compile the U-Net for the regression task of estimating the
segmentation:
unet_reg = dl.Regressor(
    model=unet, loss=torch.nn.BCEWithLogitsLoss(), optimizer=dl.Adam(),
).create()
This code utilizes the binary cross-entropy loss provided by BCEWithLogits
Loss(), a loss function suitable for binary classification tasks, such as
pixel-wise segmentation that classifies each pixel as belonging to a
particular segment (or not).
Finally, train your U-Net:
train_loader = dl.DataLoader(train_dataset, batch_size=8, shuffle=True)
unet_trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=200, accelerator="auto")
unet_trainer.fit(unet_reg, train_loader)
The training process begins by preparing a DataLoader, which feeds the
training dataset to the model in mini-batches of size 8, shuffling the data
to ensure diverse mini-batch composition throughout the training
epochs. A Trainer object is then configured to manage the training
process, set to run for a maximum of 200 epochs and automatically
select the appropriate computational accelerator (CPU or GPU) for
optimized performance. Finally, the fit() method is invoked to start the
training.

--- Strana 379 ---
Testing the Trained U-Net
After training your U-Net model, it’s essential to evaluate its ability to
generalize to experimental conditions, as shown in Listing 5-36.
   images, masks, preds = [], [], []
   for image, mask in test_loader:
       images.append(image)
       masks.append(mask)
    ➊ pred = unet_reg(image).detach()
    ➋ pred = torch.nn.functional.sigmoid(pred).cpu()
       preds.append(pred)
   images, masks, preds = \
       torch.cat(images, dim=0), torch.cat(masks, dim=0), torch.cat(preds, dim=0)
➌ true_count = np.array([skmorph.label(l.squeeze()).max() for l in masks])
➍ pred_count = np.array([skmorph.label(p.squeeze() > .995).max() for p in 
preds])
   mae = abs(pred_count - true_count).mean()
   mpe = (abs(pred_count[true_count > 0] - true_count[true_count > 0]) 
          / (true_count[true_count > 0])).mean()
Listing 5-36: Calculating the cell counts with the labeled and predicted segmentation masks
For all images in test_loader, this code collects the images and
corresponding masks. Then it computes the predictions ➊ and processes
them to saturate their values from 0 to 1 ➋. The true cell counts are
determined by labeling the connected components in the true masks ➌,
and the predicted cell counts by doing the same in the predicted masks
➍. The model’s accuracy is then quantified via the mean absolute error
(mae) and the mean percentage error (mpe), providing insight into the
prediction’s precision and reliability.
Using print(f"MAE: {mae:.2f} MPE: {mpe:.2f}"), in our run of the code, we
obtain MAE: 8.54 MPE: 0.08. These values suggest that, on average, the U-
Net predictions deviate from the true cell counts by approximately 8.5
cells, with a mean percentage error indicating that the count is generally
within 8 percent of the actual value. This means the U-Net performs

--- Strana 380 ---
well on experimental data, with the predicted cell counts being close to
the actual counts, typically within an 8 percent margin of error.
You can qualitatively visualize how the U-Net is performing by
plotting a random experimental image, its mask, and the U-Net’s
prediction for a qualitative assessment with Listing 5-37.
➊ i = np.random.choice(len(images))
 
   fig, axs = plt.subplots(1, 3, figsize=(10, 4))
➋ axs[0].imshow(images[i].squeeze(), vmin=0, vmax=1, cmap="gray")
   axs[0].set_title("Image", fontsize=16)
   
➌ axs[1].imshow(masks[i].squeeze(), vmin=0, vmax=1, cmap="gray")
   axs[1].set_title(f"Label - {true_count[i]} cells", fontsize=16)
   axs[1].axis("off")
➍ axs[2].imshow(preds[i].squeeze(), cmap="gray")
   axs[2].set_title(f"Prediction - {pred_count[i]} cells", fontsize=16)
   axs[2].axis("off")
   plt.tight_layout()
   plt.show()
Listing 5-37: Plotting an image of cells with ground-truth and predicted segmentations
This code selects a random index ➊, then plots the original image
➋, the ground-truth mask with the true cell count ➌, and the predicted
mask with the predicted cell count ➍.
Figure 5-16 shows the resulting plots.

--- Strana 381 ---
Figure 5-16: The image of cells (left) with its corresponding labeled segmentation (middle)
and predicted segmentation (right)
The original image on the left shows nuclei with varying levels of
brightness against a dark background. The middle image clearly
delineates each nucleus with white pixels, counting 67 cells in total. The
right image depicts the U-Net’s attempt to replicate the segmentation,
achieving a close approximation with 64 cells identified. From this visual
comparison, you can validate the U-Net’s capability to accurately
segment cell structures from the image background (at least for this
image). Keep in mind that your aim is to count the nuclei, so you need
have a white region for each nucleus but don’t need to exactly reproduce
the ground-truth segmentation mask. By rerunning Listing 5-37, you
can explore its performance on other images.
For a quantitative assessment of your U-Net’s cell-counting
accuracy, you can generate a scatterplot comparing the true cell counts
with those predicted by the model, as illustrated in Listing 5-38.
   plt.figure(figsize=(8, 8))
➊ plt.scatter(true_count, pred_count, alpha=0.75)
➋ plt.axline([0, 0], [1, 1], color="black")
   plt.xlabel("True Count", fontsize=24)
   plt.xlim(0, 250)
   plt.ylabel("Predicted Count", fontsize=24)
   plt.ylim(0, 250)
   plt.show()
Listing 5-38: Plotting the predicted cell counts versus the true cell counts

--- Strana 382 ---
This visualization plots each cell-count pair, with true counts on the
x-axis and predicted counts on the y-axis ➊. The ideal performance line
➋ represents a perfect match between predicted and true counts, where
each point would ideally lie.
The resulting plot should be similar to Figure 5-17.
Figure 5-17: A comparison of the predicted cell counts with the true cell counts
This scatterplot compares the true cell counts and the predicted cell
counts obtained from the U-Net. The dots represent individual data
points. Each dot’s position corresponds to the true count (x-axis) against
the predicted count (y-axis). The diagonal black line serves as a
reference, indicating where the points would fall if the predicted counts
were exactly equal to the true counts.
The concentration of points near this line suggests a strong
correlation between the U-Net’s predictions and the actual cell counts,
indicating the model’s competence in cell-quantification tasks. The
density and distribution of the points around the line provide insight
into the trained U-Net’s precision and any systematic bias that may exist

--- Strana 383 ---
in the cell counting (in this case, the model seems to systematically
undercount the cells).
NOTE
Code Example 5-B, “Counting Cells with a U-Net,” is available at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate 
to 
the 
Ch05_UNet 
folder 
and 
then
ec05_B_cell_counting. The cell_counting.ipynb notebook provides
a complete code example that uses a U-Net to count the cells in a
microscopic image.
Summary
In this chapter, you learned about the U-Net, a powerful neural network
architecture designed for image transformation. Its encoder-decoder
structure is enhanced with skip connections to preserve detailed
information at all scales. You explored various applications of U-Nets,
starting with the segmentation of intracellular regions and
mitochondria in biological tissue images. This demonstrated the U-
Net’s prowess in handling segmentation tasks, while also emphasizing
the importance of choosing the appropriate loss function and the
benefits of data augmentation for improving model performance.
In the first project, you learned to detect quantum dots in
fluorescence images, a critical task in biological research and
nanotechnology. You learned how to apply U-Nets to localize these
nanoscopic particles, showcasing the ability of U-Nets to interpret
complex image data and precisely identify quantum dots.
In the second project, you explored cell counting, a critical
procedure in biology and medicine. You used a U-Net to automate the
counting process, accurately segmenting and counting individual nuclei
within crowded microscopy images.
These projects demonstrate the utility of simulations to generate
datasets with a known ground truth, enabling the efficient training of
neural networks without the need for labor-intensive manual labeling.

--- Strana 384 ---
The insights you gained about U-Nets and their applications in
image transformation will pave your way toward more-advanced topics.
In fact, you’ll use U-Nets again in Chapters 9 and 10 to build generative
adversarial networks and diffusion models to generate images.
Seminal Works and Further Reading
The U-Net architecture, which has become foundational for image-
segmentation tasks in medical imaging and beyond, was introduced in
2015 by Olaf Ronneberger et al. in “U-Net: Convolutional Networks
for Biomedical Image Segmentation,” published in Proceedings of the
International Conference on Medical Image Computing and Computer-
Assisted Inter-vention–MICCAI 2015 (Lecture Notes in Computer Science,
volume 9351, pages 234–241).
In 2016, work by Özgün Çiçek et al. extended U-Nets to 3D image
segmentation in “3D U-Net: Learning Dense Volumetric Segmentation
from Sparse Annotation,” published in Proceedings of the International
Conference on Medical Image Computing and Computer-Assisted
Intervention–MICCAI 2016 (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, volume
9901, pages 424–432).
Further enhancing the U-Net architecture, Fabian Isensee et al. in
2020 proposed “nnU-Net: A Self-Configuring Method for Deep
Learning–Based Biomedical Image Segmentation” in Nature Methods
(volume 18, pages 203–211). The nnU-Net established a fully
automated and highly adaptable pipeline for medical image
segmentation. This pipeline can self-configure for a wide range of
imaging datasets without manual parameter tuning.
CHALLENGE PROJECTS
5-1: Real-time video segmentation for autonomous driving 
Apply U-Nets to the task of real-time video segmentation in the
context of autonomous driving. Use a dataset like Cityscapes,

--- Strana 385 ---
which contains urban street scenes. Your challenge is to develop a
model capable of segmenting various components (for example,
roads, vehicles, and pedestrians) in real time, ensuring that it’s
optimized for speed without sacrificing accuracy. Compare your
solution’s performance and efficiency against existing benchmarks
in the field of autonomous driving.
5-2: Super-resolution for satellite imagery  Explore the
potential of U-Nets in the field of image super-resolution,
specifically targeting satellite imagery. For this task, use the
EuroSAT dataset, which consists of low-resolution satellite images
covering various surface types. Use U-Nets to enhance the
resolution of these images, aiming for improved clarity and detail
that could benefit applications in mapping, urban planning, and
environmental monitoring. Assess your model’s effectiveness by
comparing the super-resolved images against high-resolution
ground-truth images.
5-3: Automated histopathology  Use U-Nets to address the
challenge of automating the analysis of histopathology images.
Select a dataset, such as the CAMELYON16 Grand Challenge
dataset, which involves the detection of cancer metastases in
lymph-node sections. Design a U-Net to segment and classify
regions of interest in these high-resolution images, facilitating
faster and more-accurate diagnoses. Benchmark your model’s
performance against manual annotations provided by medical
experts.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 386 ---
6
TRAINING NEURAL NETWORKS WITH
SELF-SUPERVISED LEARNING
In this chapter, you’ll learn about self-supervised learning, which you
can use to train neural networks with unlabeled data, reducing reliance
on costly annotation procedures.
You’ll focus on the specific challenge of localizing a particle or a cell
within an image obtained by a microscope. You’ll exploit the symmetries
inherent to this task to improve the training process. In this way, you’ll
reduce the need for extensive training data—from hundreds of
thousands of images to just one—while also eliminating the need for
prior knowledge of the object’s position.
By learning the principles behind self-supervised learning in this
context, you’ll be able to generalize them to other problems where
other symmetries can be identified, leading to more efficient and
scalable machine learning solutions.
Understanding Self-Supervised Learning

--- Strana 387 ---
You’ve already seen unsupervised learning while exploring autoencoders
in Chapter 4. Now you’ll learn about self-supervised learning, which
differs from unsupervised learning in that it tackles tasks classically
approached with supervised learning, such as classification and object
detection. Sometimes self-supervised learning can completely replace
supervised learning to train a model to solve a classically supervised
learning task. Other times, self-supervised learning is used to provide an
extensive pretraining step, which prepares a model so that a much
smaller amount of labeled data can be used for training in supervised
learning than typically required. Thus, pretraining is particularly
beneficial when you have a large amount of unlabeled data and a limited
amount of labeled data.
Self-Supervised Contrastive Learning
Self-supervised contrastive learning aims to learn useful representations
from unlabeled data. This approach exploits the concept of contrastive
loss, a type of loss function used in machine learning that measures the
difference between pairs of data points, specifically by encouraging
positive pairs (similar data points) to be closer together and negative
pairs (dissimilar data points) to be farther apart in the representation
space.
Figure 6-1 shows the general idea.

--- Strana 388 ---
Figure 6-1: Self-supervised contrastive learning
The positive pairs are obtained from the same data point with
different augmentations—for example, the pairs (x1, x2) and (x′
1, x′
2).
The negative pairs are obtained from different data points—for example,
(x1, x′
1) and (x2, x′
2).
The goal is to train the neural network W to learn a representation
of the data points that is invariant to the augmentations, but different
for different data points. This approach enables the network to capture
the essential features of each data point while being robust to minor
changes or distortions. This is done by minimizing the distance between
the representations of the positive pairs, (Z1, Z2) and (Z ′
1, Z ′
2), while
maximizing the distance between the representations of the negative
pairs, (Z1, Z ′
1) and (Z2, Z ′
2).
The data points can then be classified by directly clustering their
representations or by using an additional (small) neural network as a
classifier. In the latter case, the advantage is that this neural network can
be trained on much less data than that used in a classical supervised

--- Strana 389 ---
learning approach (like the classification of malaria-infected cells in
Project 3A), because the representations have already been learned.
Self-Supervised Non-Contrastive Learning
Unlike self-supervised contrastive learning, self-supervised non-contrastive
learning doesn’t require negative pairs. Instead, the goal is simply to
minimize the distance between the representations of the augmented
data points. Figure 6-2 shows the working principle of this approach.
Figure 6-2: Self-supervised non-contrastive learning
In general, the algorithm takes one data point, x, as input and creates
two augmented versions, x1 and x2. The neural network is trained to
minimize the distance between the representations of the augmented
data points, thus producing representations that are invariant to the
augmentations. This is crucial for enhancing the model’s robustness and
generalizability, as it learns to focus on the core features of the data,
improving its performance on diverse tasks and new data.
Instinctively, you might expect an algorithm that only minimizes the
distance between the representations of the positive pairs to collapse to
the trivial solution of always outputting the same representation, thus
ending up in mode collapse. This would be problematic because it
would result in a loss of diversity in the learned representations: In
mode collapse, the algorithm fails to capture the distinct features of
different data points, undermining its ability to discriminate between
them and reducing the effectiveness of the model in tasks requiring this

--- Strana 390 ---
type of differentiation. Non-contrastive learning avoids this problem by
using two neural networks: the online network and the target network.
The target network can be thought of as a teacher guiding the online
network, which is often referred to as the student. The target network
can be identical to the online network, or it can be constructed as a
moving average of the online network. During training, only the online
network is trained. The online network and the target network receive
two differently augmented versions of the same image. Moreover, the
online branch has an extra linear predictor, which is trained to predict
the representation of the target network. This linear predictor
introduces an asymmetry between the online network and the target
network, which prevents the online network from collapsing to the
trivial solution.
Self-supervised non-contrastive learning is especially advantageous
in medical imaging and language processing, where defining negative
samples is difficult. For instance, in medical imaging, such as magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) scans, identifying what constitutes a negative
pair can be ambiguous and potentially misleading. Similarly, in language
processing, determining negative sentence pairs can introduce biases.
Self-Supervised Geometric Learning
A subfield of self-supervised learning, self-supervised geometric learning
focuses on learning geometric representations from unlabeled data.
Generally, geometric deep learning aims to capture the underlying
geometric structure, relationships, transformations, symmetries, and
invariances present in the data. You’ll explore the principles of
geometric deep learning in the rest of this chapter. Figure 6-3 shows the
general idea behind this approach.

--- Strana 391 ---
Figure 6-3: Self-supervised geometric learning
Conceptually, self-supervised geometric learning builds upon the
foundation of self-supervised non-contrastive learning. Both approaches
use positive pairs of images as training data. In self-supervised non-
contrastive learning, the focus is primarily on achieving invariance to the
augmentations. This means that the model’s output representation
should remain unchanged regardless of the specific augmentation
applied.
Self-supervised geometric learning extends these principles by
imposing equivariance to the augmentations applied to the data points.
Instead of solely pursuing invariance, self-supervised geometric learning
considers how the augmentations influence the output of the neural
network, aiming to learn the expected changes in the output due to the
specific augmentations.
To achieve this equivariance, a technique known as detransformation
is applied. When an augmentation is applied to a data point, the
network’s output is transformed accordingly. However, to understand
the effect of the augmentation on the output, the network applies the
inverse transformation, detransforming the output by using the inverse
of the augmentation. This process helps the network disentangle the
effects of the augmentation from the inherent features of the data point,
ensuring that the learned representation reflects the true characteristics
of the data rather than the specific augmentations applied. You’ll see
how this works in practice in the next section.

--- Strana 392 ---
Determining the Position of a Particle in an Image
In this section, you’ll see how self-supervised geometric learning can be
used to determine the position of a microscopic particle present in an
image.
Specifically, you’ll address the following problem: Given an image
containing a single object, determine the precise x- and y-coordinates
that correspond to the center of the object within that image. This
problem is particularly important in microscopy and biomedical
imaging, where accurately identifying the center of a cell or a
microorganism is crucial for automated analysis, diagnosis, and tracking
of biological specimens. Precise localization enables researchers and
medical professionals to quantify properties like cell size, shape, and
distribution, allowing for better understanding of biological processes
and aiding in the early detection of diseases.
The approach you’ll use is based on the recently developed
LodeSTAR algorithm, published in 2022 by Benjamin Midtvedt and co-
workers in Nature Communications. You’ll then use this approach in
Project 6A to localize cells.
Creating the Dataset
You’ll use a simulated dataset to quantitatively evaluate the performance
of your solution. This process is similar to that in Project 3B; in that
project, you can find detailed explanations of the code to simulate the
particle images that you’ll use in this section. First, define a particle with
Listing 6-1.
import deeptrack as dt 
from numpy.random import uniform
image_size = 51
particle = dt.PointParticle(

--- Strana 393 ---
    position=lambda: uniform(image_size / 2 - 5, image_size / 2 + 5, size=2),
)
Listing 6-1: Defining a particle located near the center of the image
This code defines a point particle, which is a very small particle, below
the diffraction limit of the imaging optics. The diffraction limit refers to
the fundamental limit on the resolution of an optical system, beyond
which two points cannot be resolved as distinct. The point particle
therefore appears as a diffraction-limited spot as captured by the optics
—a blurred spot due to this resolution limit, representing the smallest
distinguishable feature in the image.
Next, define the optical system, which is a fluorescence microscope:
optics = dt.Fluorescence(output_region=(0, 0, image_size, image_size))
Then combine the particle with the optical system, using Listing 6-
2.
import torch
simulation = (optics(particle) >> dt.NormalizeMinMax(0, 1)
              >> dt.Gaussian(sigma=0.1) >> dt.MoveAxis(-1, 0)
              >> dt.pytorch.ToTensor(dtype=torch.float32))
Listing 6-2: Creating the simulation pipeline
This code creates a simulation pipeline to generate point particle
images and to apply optics simulation, normalization, Gaussian noise,
axis rearrangement, and conversion to a PyTorch tensor for further
analysis.
Finally, create the necessary training and test datasets with Listing 6-
3.
train_dataset = dt.pytorch.Dataset(simulation, length=100)
test_dataset = dt.pytorch.Dataset(simulation & particle.position, length=5000)
Listing 6-3: Creating the training and test datasets
This code creates a training dataset with 100 precalculated images
and a test dataset with 5,000 images. The test dataset also contains the

--- Strana 394 ---
positions that you’ll need to evaluate the performance of the trained
network, while the training dataset doesn’t need the positions.
You can use Listing 6-4 to plot the first five images from the test
dataset.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
fig, axs = plt.subplots(1, 5, figsize=(10, 2))
for i, ax in enumerate(axs):
    image, position = test_dataset[i]
    ax.imshow(image[0], cmap="gray", origin="lower")
    ax.scatter(position[1], position[0], c="r")
    if i != 0: ax.axis("off")
plt.tight_layout()
plt.show()
Listing 6-4: Plotting the generated particles and their positions
This should generate images similar to those shown in Figure 6-4.
Figure 6-4: The diffraction-limited images of point particles and their centers (dots)
The particles appear as diffraction-limited bright spots against a
noisy background. The ground-truth position is indicated by the dot.
Learning from Translations
Self-supervised geometric learning exploits transformations that
methodically modify the neural network’s input and output. Among
these, translation, which consists of moving an object or its
representation from one position to another without rotating, resizing,
or otherwise altering its shape, is the most fundamental for object
localization. The underlying concept is as follows: If you have an image

--- Strana 395 ---
containing a particle, even if you don’t know its position, you can still be
certain that translating the image by a specific amount will result in an
equivalent shift in the particle’s position—a concrete example of
equivariance.
This principle can be used to train a neural network with the
following algorithm:
1. Take a single image x as input.
2. Apply two random translations to x to create two images, x1 and
x2.
3. Use a convolutional neural network with a dense top to predict
the positions of the objects in these translated images.
4. Detransform the predicted positions by using the inverse
translations to get the predicted positions in the original image
frame of reference, y1 and y2.
5. Minimize the distance between y1 and y2 by using it as loss to
train the neural network.
These steps constrain the neural network to be translation equivariant,
which means that a translation of the input results in an equal
translation of the output. This is the principle behind using the loss
function to train the network by penalizing it for any deviation from
this equivariant behavior.
Defining the Neural Network
You can use Listing 6-5 to define the neural network.
   import deeplay as dl
➊ backbone = dl.ConvolutionalNeuralNetwork(
       in_channels=1, hidden_channels=[16, 32, 64], out_channels=128, 
       pool=torch.nn.MaxPool2d(2),

--- Strana 396 ---
   )
   model = dl.Sequential(backbone, torch.nn.Flatten(), torch.nn.LazyLinear(2))
Listing 6-5: Implementing a neural network with a convolutional backbone and a dense top
layer
This code defines a convolutional neural network backbone ➊. Then
the code flattens the output of this backbone and analyzes it with a
dense layer ➋. In order to not have to explicitly calculate a priori the
output size of the convolutional backbone, which will depend on the
input image size, the code uses a LazyLinear layer instead of a Linear layer.
You can use print(model) to print the details of this model.
Defining the Transformations
Next, you need to define a translation transformation for the input
images, as shown by the image_translation() function in Listing 6-6.
from kornia.geometry.transform import translate
def image_translation(batch, translation):
    """Translate a batch of images."""
    xy_flipped_translation = translation[:, [1, 0]]
    return translate(batch, xy_flipped_translation, padding_mode="reflection")
Listing 6-6: The function to translate the input image
This function flips the translation to match the image coordinate
system and then uses the Kornia library’s translate() function to perform
the translation.
You can use the inverse_translation() function to implement the
corresponding detransformation, as shown in Listing 6-7.
def inverse_translation(preds, applied_translation):
    """Invert translation of predicted positions."""
    return preds - applied_translation
Listing 6-7: The function to apply the inverse translation on the output positions
This function applies the inverse translation to the estimated
particle positions, inverting the translation applied to the images.

--- Strana 397 ---
Implementing LodeSTAR with Translations
You can now implement the core of the LodeSTAR algorithm trained
with translations, which is given by the ParticleLocalizer class in Listing
6-8.
from torch import rand
class ParticleLocalizer(dl.Application):
    """LodeSTAR implementation with translations."""
 
    def __init__(self, model, n_transforms=8, **kwargs):
        """Initialize the ParticleLocalizer."""
        self.model, self.n_transforms = model, n_transforms
        super().__init__(**kwargs)
    def forward(self, batch):
        """Forward pass through the model."""
        return self.model(batch)
 
    def random_arguments(self):
        """Generate random arguments for transformations."""
        return {"translation": \
            (rand(self.n_transforms, 2).float().to(self.device) * 5 - 2.5)}
    def forward_transform(self, batch, translation):
        """Apply forward translation to the image."""
        return image_translation(batch, translation)
    def inverse_transform(self, preds, translation):
        """Apply inverse translation to the predictions."""
        return inverse_translation(preds, translation)
    def training_step(self, image, batch_idx):
        """Perform a single training step."""
     ➊ image, *_ = image
     ➋ batch = image.repeat(self.n_transforms, 1, 1, 1)

--- Strana 398 ---
        kwargs = self.random_arguments()
     ➌ transformed_batch = self.forward_transform(batch, **kwargs)
     ➍ pred_position = self(transformed_batch)
     ➎ pred_position = self.inverse_transform(pred_position, **kwargs)
        average_pred_position = pred_position \
            .mean(dim=0, keepdim=True).repeat(self.n_transforms, 1)
        loss = self.loss(pred_position, average_pred_position)
        self.log("loss", loss, on_step=True, on_epoch=True, prog_bar=True)
        return loss
Listing 6-8: The class to implement a self-supervised particle localizer trained with
translations
In this application, the most important method is training_step().
After extracting the first image from the input batch ➊, this function
creates a batch of n_transforms images ➋ and applies random translation
to them ➌. Then the function predicts the positions by invoking the
forward() method—when self(transformed_batch) is called, it’s effectively
calling self.forward(transformed_batch)—and then inverts the translations to
get the predicted positions in the original image ➎. Finally,
training_step() then calculates the average position (repeating the average
position to match the batch size), calculates the loss, and logs it. This
loss is calculated as the distance between each prediction and the
average prediction, so minimizing it effectively minimizes the variance
of the detransformed predictions.
You can then instantiate a ParticleLocalizer:
localizer = ParticleLocalizer(
    model, n_transforms=8, loss=torch.nn.L1Loss(), optimizer=dl.Adam(lr=5e-4),
).create()
Finally, you can train the neural network model with Listing 6-9.

--- Strana 399 ---
dataloader = dl.DataLoader(train_dataset, batch_size=1, shuffle=True)
trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=100)
trainer.fit(localizer, dataloader)
Listing 6-9: Training the self-supervised particle localizer trained with translations
This code defines the data loader and the trainer and then trains the
model.
Evaluating Performance
Let’s evaluate the performance of your trained model, using Listing 6-
10.
images, positions = zip(*test_dataset)
images, positions = torch.stack(images), torch.stack(positions)
predictions = localizer(images).detach().numpy()
Listing 6-10: Evaluating the performance of the self-supervised particle localizer trained with
translations
This code unpacks the images and corresponding positions from
test_dataset. Then the code stacks the list of image and position tensors
for batch processing. Finally, the batch of images is passed through the
localizer to get the predictions.
You can then write the plot_position_comparison() function to plot the
predicted positions as a function of the real ones, as shown in Listing 6-
11.
def plot_position_comparison(positions, predictions):
    """Plot comparison between predicted and real particle positions."""
    plt.figure(figsize=(14, 8))
    grid = plt.GridSpec(4, 7, wspace=.2, hspace=.1)
    plt.subplot(grid[1:, :3])
    plt.scatter(positions[:, 0], predictions[:, 0], alpha=.5) 
    plt.axline((25, 25), slope=1, color="black")
    plt.xlabel("True Horizontal Position", fontsize=20)
    plt.ylabel("Predicted Horizontal Position", fontsize=20)

--- Strana 400 ---
    plt.axis("equal") 
    plt.subplot(grid[1:, 4:])
    plt.scatter(positions[:, 1], predictions[:, 1], alpha=.5)
    plt.axline((25, 25), slope=1, color="black")
    plt.xlabel("True Vertical Position", fontsize=20)
    plt.ylabel("Predicted Vertical Position", fontsize=20)
    plt.axis("equal")
    plt.show()
Listing 6-11: The function to plot the predicted positions versus the real ones
Use this function to plot the predicted versus real positions:
plot_position_comparison(positions, predictions)
Figure 6-5 shows the results.
Figure 6-5: The predicted versus real positions for a self-supervised particle localizer trained
with translations
You should obtain a slope of the line close to 1, but you can expect a
large bias for both the vertical and horizontal position estimations,
because the network is trained to correct only relative to itself. In fact,
while humans often intuitively measure the position of an object relative

--- Strana 401 ---
to the corner or the center of an image, the network is currently free to
choose its own reference point. For many applications, this isn’t a
problem. For example, to determine statistics about the dynamics of the
object, the reference point isn’t important, only the distance moved
from one frame to the next.
However, in some scenarios, determining the absolute position of an
object within an image is crucial. For example, this information might
be needed to extract a specific area of the image surrounding the object.
In such situations, you can use a straightforward method to adjust for
any bias in the object’s position.
Improving Predictions
To correct the bias, you can use a simple trick. Define the bias of the
network as b, such that for an object centered at position p relative to
the center of the image, the network predicts ydirect = p + b. Now, if you
flip the image about its center (this is equivalent to reflecting the image
around the center both horizontally and vertically), you get a new image
with the object at position –p. The network, however, doesn’t know that
the image has been flipped and will still add the same bias to its
prediction. Thus, the network will predict yflipped = –p + b. Then you
have:
p = 1
2 (ydirect −yflipped)
You can implement this idea to correct the bias, as shown in Listing
6-12.
direct_preds = localizer(images).detach().numpy()
flipped_images = images.flip(dims=(2, 3))
flipped_preds = localizer(flipped_images).detach().numpy()
predictions_with_difference = ((direct_preds - flipped_preds) / 2 
                                + image_size / 2 - 0.5)

--- Strana 402 ---
plot_position_comparison(positions, predictions_with_difference)
Listing 6-12: Correcting the bias of a self-supervised particle localizer trained with
translations
This predicts the positions for the original images (direct_preds).
Then the code flips the images and predicts the positions for these
flipped images (flipped_preds). Finally, these predictions are averaged
(predictions_with_difference), also accounting for the image_size / 2 - 0.5
offset between the center of the image and the origin of the image
coordinates (the lower-left corner in the figures plotted in this chapter).
Figure 6-6 shows the resulting plot.
Figure 6-6: The predicted versus real positions for a self-supervised particle localizer trained
with translations by using the average predicted position for the input image with and
without flipping
The bias has now been corrected. While the slope of the line
remains close to 1, the bias now appears to be close to 0, as shown by
the points falling close to the bisectrix, the diagonal line representing
the perfect prediction.
Learning from Flipping the Image

--- Strana 403 ---
Flips, like translations, transform the image in a way that predictably
changes the position of the object. As such, you can apply flips along
with translations during training. By doing so, the network will learn to
correct the bias automatically so that you won’t need to use the flipping
trick during postprocessing, as you did in the preceding section.
The neural network learns to correct the bias for the same reason as
in the trick described in the preceding section. The original image can
be transformed in multiple ways to result in the current image, and only
some of these ways include flipping. Therefore, the network cannot
know whether the image has been flipped. The only way the network
can be correct in all cases is to find the actual center of the object.
Start by implementing the flip_transform() function to flip the input
image, as shown in Listing 6-13.
def flip_transform(batch, should_flip, dim):
    """Conditionally flip batch along a specified dimension."""
    should_flip = should_flip.view(-1, 1, 1, 1)
    return torch.where(should_flip, batch.flip(dims=(dim,)), batch)
Listing 6-13: The function to conditionally flip images along a specified dimension
This function reshapes the should_flip tensor for broadcasting, which is
the expansion of a tensor’s dimensions to make it compatible with
subsequent operations. Then the function flips the images if should_flip
is True.
Next, implement the inverse_flip_transform() function to invert the flip
transformation on the predicted positions, as shown in Listing 6-14.
def inverse_flip_transform(preds, should_flip, dim):
    """Conditionally inverse flip transformation based on should_flip."""
    should_flip_mask = torch.zeros_like(preds).bool()
    should_flip_mask[should_flip, dim] = 1
    return torch.where(should_flip_mask, -preds, preds)
Listing 6-14: The function to conditionally inverse-flip images
This function applies the inverse flip where should_flip_mask is True.

--- Strana 404 ---
Finally, create the ParticleLocalizerWithFlips class, inheriting from the
ParticleLocalizer class, as shown in Listing 6-15.
class ParticleLocalizerWithFlips(ParticleLocalizer):
    """ParticleLocalizer with additional flips."""
 
    def forward_transform(self, batch, translation, flip_x, flip_y):
        """Apply forward translations and flips to the batch."""
        batch = image_translation(batch, translation)
        batch = flip_transform(batch, flip_x, dim=3)
        batch = flip_transform(batch, flip_y, dim=2)
        return batch
    def inverse_transform(self, preds, translation, flip_x, flip_y):
        """Apply the inverse transformations to the predictions."""
        preds = inverse_flip_transform(preds, flip_x, dim=1)
        preds = inverse_flip_transform(preds, flip_y, dim=0)
        preds = inverse_translation(preds, translation)
        return preds
 
    def random_arguments(self):
        """Generate random arguments for translation and flips.""" 
        return {"translation": \
            (rand(self.n_transforms, 2).float().to(self.device) * 5 - 2.5),
            "flip_x": rand(self.n_transforms).float().to(self.device) > 0.5,
            "flip_y": rand(self.n_transforms).float().to(self.device) > 0.5}
Listing 6-15: The class to implement a self-supervised particle localizer also trained with
flips
This class adds the flip transformations around the x- and y-axes to
the forward_transform(), inverse_transform(), and random_arguments() methods.
All the other methods, including the one implementing the training
step, are inherited from ParticleLocalizer and require no changes.
You can then instantiate this class and train it, using Listing 6-16.
localizer_with_flips = ParticleLocalizerWithFlips(
    model, n_transforms=8, loss=torch.nn.L1Loss(), optimizer=dl.Adam(lr=1e-3),
).create()

--- Strana 405 ---
trainer_with_flips = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=100)
trainer_with_flips.fit(localizer_with_flips, dataloader)
Listing 6-16: Training a self-supervised particle localizer with flipping transformations
Plot the performance of the trained network with Listing 6-17.
predictions = (localizer_with_flips(images).detach().numpy()
            ➊ + image_size / 2 - 0.5)
plot_position_comparison(positions, predictions)
Listing 6-17: Plotting the predictions versus real positions for a self-supervised particle
localizer with flips
This code plots the predictions of the trained neural network
directly, just correcting for the offset between the center of the image
and the origin of the image coordinates ➊.
The resulting image should look like Figure 6-7.
Figure 6-7: The predicted versus real positions for a self-supervised particle localizer with
flipping transformations
Because the points fall close to the bisectrix, you can tell that the
network has learned to automatically correct the bias during training.

--- Strana 406 ---
No additional post-processing tricks are necessary anymore.
EXERCISE
6-1:  Train a neural network by using rotations instead of flips.
Compare the results to those obtained using flips. Does one
approach work better than the other?
Improving Performance with LodeSTAR
You can greatly improve the performance of your trained network by
using a more appropriate architecture. The architecture you’ve used
until now has consisted of a convolutional backbone followed by a dense
layer, as you saw in Listing 6-5. The problem with this architecture is
that it isn’t equivariant to translation. In fact, while convolutional layers
are equivariant to translation, dense layers are not. This means that the
neural network needs to learn every possible position of the object in
the image individually.
If, instead, the neural network were inherently equivariant to
translation, it would only need to learn to remove the bias as you did in
the previous section using flips. So, if you design a neural network
without dense layers (in this case, without the dense top layer), you can
shorten the training and improve performance.
To remove the dense top layer, you need to pool the spatial
information produced by the convolutional layers to x- and y-
coordinates. You might consider using a global average pooling layer,
but this wouldn’t be a good idea. The global average pooling layer isn’t
equivariant to translation; it’s just invariant to translation. Instead, you
can calculate the center of mass of the output of the convolutional
layers. Ignoring edge effects (which occur when a transformation causes
parts of the object to move beyond the image boundaries, leading to
information loss or distortion), this operation is equivariant to
translation.

--- Strana 407 ---
This is one of the ideas behind Localization and Detection from
Symmetries, Translations, and Rotations (LodeSTAR), a deep learning
method optimized for localization and detection of objects in images,
using geometric learning.
Consider the probability ρi of finding a particle near the position ri,
which is the center of the pixel i, as shown in Figure 6-8.
Figure 6-8: The particle position as a weighted average
The center of mass of this probability distribution gives a good
statistical estimator of the position of the particle, which can be
calculated as follows:
LodeSTAR uses a slightly modified version of this equation, defined
as
r =
∑i riρi
∑i ρi
    (6.1)
r =
∑i(ri+Δri)ρi
∑i  ρi
    (6.2)

--- Strana 408 ---
where ∆ri is the offset of the particle center from the center of pixel i (as
illustrated in Figure 6-8), which is also predicted by the neural network.
In this way, LodeSTAR is trained to produce three channels: a
probability channel for the probability ρi of finding a particle near the
position ri (the center of pixel i) and two displacement channels for the x-
and y-offsets of the estimated particle position (∆ri), from which the
particle position is then calculated.
You can train LodeSTAR with Listing 6-18.
dataloader_lodestar = dl.DataLoader(train_dataset, batch_size=4, shuffle=True)
lodestar = dl.LodeSTAR(optimizer=dl.Adam(lr=1e-4)).build()
trainer_lodestar = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=100)
trainer_lodestar.fit(lodestar, dataloader_lodestar)
Listing 6-18: Training LodeSTAR
Now let’s evaluate the performance of LodeSTAR, using Listing 6-
19.
lodestar_predictions = lodestar.pooled(images).detach().numpy()
plot_position_comparison(positions, lodestar_predictions)
Listing 6-19: Plotting LodeSTAR performance
This code gets the estimated particle coordinates by pooling the
neural network outputs. You’ll see how to get access to the values of ρi
and ∆ri in Project 6A.
Unlike our previous neural network, LodeSTAR outputs the
position of the object relative to the origin of the image coordinates and
therefore doesn’t need to correct for the offset between the center of
the image and the origin of the image coordinates. Figure 6-9 shows the
resulting plot.

--- Strana 409 ---
Figure 6-9: The predicted versus real positions with LodeSTAR
LodeSTAR significantly outperforms the previous networks. In fact,
the predictions are very close to the bisectrix of the plane.
NOTE
Code Example 6-1, “Localizing Particles Using LodeSTAR,” is
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate 
to 
the 
Ch06_SelfSupervised 
folder 
and 
then
ec06_1_lodestar. The lodestar.ipynb notebook provides a complete
code example that demonstrates how to train and use LodeSTAR to
localize particles.
EXERCISES
6-2:  Decrease the size of the training set and see how the
performance of the network trained with the LodeSTAR
algorithm changes. Go down to a single training image.

--- Strana 410 ---
6-3:  An important consideration is how the performance of a
network trained with the LodeSTAR algorithm changes when the
network is evaluated on data with a different noise level than the
training data. Plot the root-mean-squared error as a function of
the SNR for three LodeSTAR networks trained on data with SNR
ratios of 2, 10, and 50, and observe the differences.
Project 6A: Localizing Mouse Stem Cells with
LodeSTAR
As you learned in the preceding section, LodeSTAR uses a
convolutional neural network without any dense layers to ensure
translational equivariance. Beyond making the neural network
equivariant to translations, the center-of-mass pooling also allows the
neural network to predict on arbitrarily sized images.
In fact, as you’ve seen in Equation 6.2, the channel ρi can be thought
to represent a spatial distribution of probability. When predicting on a
large image with multiple objects, the neural network will produce
several clusters of probability in the output. This manifests itself as
several peaks in the probability channel ρi (and corresponding offsets in
the ∆ri channels that point to the same peak). Thus, you can use
LodeSTAR to detect multiple objects in an image by finding clusters of
probability in the output of the neural network.
This means that you can train your neural network on small images
with a single object and then use the trained network on larger images
with multiple objects without any additional training. This makes the
task of finding a sufficient set of training images much simpler in real-
world applications.
In this project, you’ll apply these principles to find the positions of
mouse stem cells in images with multiple cells. To achieve this, you’ll
train a neural network by using a single, cropped image of a single cell.
Furthermore, this approach won’t require you to manually annotate the
cell’s exact position in the cropped image.

--- Strana 411 ---
Using the Cell Tracking Challenge Dataset
You’ll use a dataset from the Cell Tracking Challenge, which includes a
series of videos of proliferating mouse hematopoietic stem cells. Even
though you don’t need ground-truth positions to train the neural
network, you can use the annotations provided for the challenge to
evaluate the detection performance of your trained network.
This dataset is available at http://data.celltrackingchallenge.net/training-
datasets/BF-C2DL-HSC.zip. Download and extract it using Listing 6-20.
   import os
   from torchvision.datasets.utils import _extract_zip, download_url
➊ dataset_path = "cell_detection_dataset"
   if not os.path.exists(dataset_path):
       url = ("http://data.celltrackingchallenge.net/training-datasets/"
              "BF-C2DL-HSC.zip")
       download_url(url, ".")
       _extract_zip("BF-C2DL-HSC.zip", dataset_path, None)
       os.remove("BF-C2DL-HSC.zip")
➋ dir = os.path.join(dataset_path, "BF-C2DL-HSC")
Listing 6-20: Downloading the BF-C2DL-HSC dataset of the Cell Tracking Challenge
This script downloads and saves the dataset, unzips it into the
dataset_path folder ➊, and finally removes the downloaded zipped file.
The dataset is accessible in the dir folder ➋.
The dataset contains two sequences of images in the 01 and 02
folders, and their ground-truth segmentations in the 01_GT and 02_GT
folders. Within these latter folders, the SEG folders contain the high-
quality segmentation masks for a few images (which you won’t use in
this project), while the TRA folders contain lower-quality segmentation
masks for all images (which you’ll use later to determine the ground-
truth cell positions to evaluate the performance of your trained
network). You’ll use the sequence in the 02 folder because it contains
more cells than that in the 01 folder.

--- Strana 412 ---
You can create a pipeline to dynamically load the files, including
both images and the relative labels of the cell positions, with Listing 6-
21.
   import glob
   import deeptrack as dt
   from skimage.measure import regionprops
   sources = dt.sources.Source(
       image_path=sorted(glob.glob(os.path.join(dir, "02", "*.tif"))),
       label_path=sorted(glob.glob(os.path.join(dir, "02_GT", "TRA", "*.tif"))),
   )
➊ image_pip = dt.LoadImage(sources.image_path)[300:850, :300] / 256
➋ props_pip = dt.LoadImage(sources.label_path)[300:850, :300] >> regionprops
   pip = image_pip & props_pip
Listing 6-21: Creating the pipeline to load the images and the relative ground-truth cell
positions
This script uses Source to load the list of all image files from the
sequence in the 02 folder and the relative ground-truth segmentations
from the 02_GT/TRA folder. The script uses the sorted() function to
ensure that the images are sorted by name, because depending on the
operating system and the settings, the images could be sorted by
modification time instead of by name. The script crops the images to
show only the part where the cells are ➊ ➋ to save computer memory
and speed up the evaluation. The script also extracts the properties of
the cells identified in the segmentations, using regionprops. Finally, the
script creates the pip pipeline combining the images and the positions.
You can finally plot some images together with the ground-truth cell
positions, using Listing 6-22.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
plt.figure(figsize=(15, 10))

--- Strana 413 ---
for plt_index, data_index in enumerate([0, 300, 600, 900, 1200, 1500]):
    image, *props = pip(sources[data_index])
 
    plt.subplot(1, 6, plt_index + 1)
    plt.imshow(image, cmap="gray")
    for prop in props:
     ➊ plt.scatter(prop.centroid[1], prop.centroid[0], s=5, color="red")
    plt.axis("off")
plt.tight_layout()
plt.show()
Listing 6-22: Plotting some images with the cell ground-truth positions
When plotting the positions, the ordering of the coordinates is
intentionally inverted ➊ to match the image’s indexing convention.
The images are shown in Figure 6-10.
Figure 6-10: Proliferation of mouse hematopoietic stem cells with the ground-truth cell
positions (dots)
You can see images from the sequence in the 02 folder of the BF-
C2DL-HSC dataset demonstrating the proliferation of mouse
hematopoietic stem cells. The dots represent the ground-truth cell
positions obtained from the centroid of the cell segmentations provided
by the dataset, corresponding to the geometric center point of the cell
segmentation.
Preparing the Training Crop

--- Strana 414 ---
One of the greatest advantages of LodeSTAR is that it can be trained on
small crops of the images containing a single cell. In this project, you’ll
use a single crop of a single cell to train the neural network. To do this,
you need to find a cell in the image, then crop the portion of the image
around the cell. This cell doesn’t need to be exactly in the center of the
crop, but it should be well separated from the other cells in the image.
This is to make sure that only one cell is in the crop.
You can use Listing 6-23 to select a good crop.
crop_frame_index, crop_size = 282, 50
crop_x0, crop_y0 = 295 - crop_size // 2, 115 - crop_size // 2
image, *props = pip(sources[crop_frame_index])
crop = image[crop_x0:crop_x0 + crop_size, crop_y0:crop_y0 + crop_size]
Listing 6-23: Preparing the training crop
This script extracts from one of the images a crop to be used for
training. You can alter its parameters to get a crop from a different
frame (crop_frame_index), with a different size (crop_size), and in a different
portion of the image (crop_x0 and crop_y0).
Then plot the selected crop with Listing 6-24.
   from matplotlib.patches import Rectangle
   plt.figure(figsize=(15, 10))
   plt.subplot(1, 2, 1)
➊ plt.imshow(image, cmap="gray")
➋ plt.gca().add_patch(Rectangle((crop_y0, crop_x0), crop_size, crop_size,
                                  linewidth=1, edgecolor="r", facecolor="none"))
   plt.subplot(1, 2, 2)
➌ plt.imshow(crop, cmap="gray")
   plt.show()
Listing 6-24: Plotting the selected training crop

--- Strana 415 ---
This code plots the whole image ➊ with a square around the crop ➋
and a zoomed-in version of the crop ➌. Figure 6-11 shows the result.
Figure 6-11: A full image (left) and a close-up (right) of the cropped portion of the image to
be used for training
In the full image on the left, the area of the crop is highlighted by a
square. The zoomed-in crop is shown on the right. The crop is well
separated from the other cells in the image. The cell is somewhat close
to the border, but this won’t be a problem in this case.
Creating the Training Pipeline and Data Loader
Now you’ll create a pipeline to feed this crop to the algorithm that
trains the neural network; see Listing 6-25.
import numpy as np
import torch
train_pip = (dt.Value(crop) 
          ➊ >> dt.Multiply(lambda: np.random.uniform(0.9, 1.1))

--- Strana 416 ---
          ➋ >> dt.Add(lambda: np.random.uniform(-0.1, 0.1))
             >> dt.MoveAxis(-1, 0) >> dt.pytorch.ToTensor(dtype=torch.float32)
Listing 6-25: Creating the training pipeline
This code augments the training data by slightly rescaling the image
by a random amount ➊ and by adding a small random offset ➋. You can,
of course, experiment with different augmentations, even distorting the
image slightly.
Let’s use this pipeline to create a training dataset and a data loader
with Listing 6-26.
import deeplay as dl 
train_dataset = dt.pytorch.Dataset(train_pip, length=400, replace=False)
dataloader = dl.DataLoader(train_dataset, batch_size=8, shuffle=True)
Listing 6-26: Creating the training dataset and data loader
The dataset includes 400 augmented versions of the crop to enhance
the model’s ability to generalize and perform robustly on diverse and
unseen data.
Training the Neural Network
You can now define and train the LodeSTAR network with Listing 6-
27.
lodestar = dl.LodeSTAR(n_transforms=4, optimizer=dl.Adam(lr=1e-4)).build()
trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=200)
trainer.fit(lodestar, dataloader)
Listing 6-27: Defining and training the LodeSTAR neural network
This code uses four transformations in each step of the training and
trains for 200 epochs.
To gain some intuition about what the neural network does, use
Listing 6-28 to plot the predictions.
➊ image_index = 1500
   image, *props = pip(sources[image_index])

--- Strana 417 ---
   torch_image = torch.from_numpy(image).permute(2, 0, 1).unsqueeze(0).float()
➋ prediction = lodestar(torch_image)[0].detach().numpy()
➌ x, y, rho = prediction[0], prediction[1], prediction[-1]
   plt.figure(figsize=(15, 10))
   plt.subplot(1, 3, 1)
   plt.imshow(image, cmap="gray")
   plt.axis("off")
   plt.subplot(1, 3, 2)
   plt.imshow(rho, cmap="gray")
   plt.axis("off")
   plt.subplot(1, 3, 3)
   plt.imshow(image, cmap="gray")
➍ plt.scatter(y.flatten(), x.flatten(), alpha=rho.flatten() / rho.max(), s=5)
   plt.axis("off")
   plt.xlim(0, 299)
   plt.ylim(0, 549)
   plt.gca().invert_yaxis()
   plt.show()
Listing 6-28: Obtaining and plotting the predictions of the neural network
This code calculates the trained neural network prediction ➋ for the
image with index 1500 ➊. The code then extracts the predictions for the
x- and y-coordinates of the particles obtained from the displacement
channel ∆ri summed to the pixel center ri as well as for the probability
channel ρi ➌. Note that the predicted positions are plotted with a
transparency proportional to the probability by setting the alpha
parameter ➍. The code then proceeds to plot them. You should obtain
plots similar to Figure 6-12.

--- Strana 418 ---
Figure 6-12: The input image (left), probability channel (middle), and displacement
channel (right)
The input image is shown on the left. The middle image shows the
probability channel ρi. The bright spots near the centers of the cells
show that the neural network correctly thinks there is a high probability
that a cell is in those positions. The right image shows the predicted
positions, which correctly cluster near the cells, demonstrating the
network’s accuracy in replicating the cell positions from the input
image, which is the primary goal of this task.
Evaluating Performance
You’ll now evaluate the trained neural network on the images of the
sequence contained in the 02 folder. LodeSTAR calculates two metrics
to determine the positions of the cells in the images based on the
predictions provided by the neural network.
The first metric uses a segmentation of the probability channel, thus
identifying the cell positions as the centroids of the high-probability
regions. The second metric uses the detection clusters in the position

--- Strana 419 ---
channel. LodeSTAR has an already-implemented method, called
detect(), that combines these two metrics and provides the cell locations,
which you’ll soon use.
First, you need to choose the parameters to combine these metrics,
which are shown in Listing 6-29.
alpha = 0.2
beta = 1 - alpha
cutoff = 0.2
mode = "constant"
Listing 6-29: Fixing the parameters to determine the positions of the cells in the images
The parameters alpha and beta weight the metrics based on the
probability channel and the position channel, respectively (α + β = 1). As
a rule of thumb, α should be high if the objects are very different, and β
should be high if the objects are very similar. The cutoff parameter
determines the threshold: Higher values mean fewer objects are
detected, and lower values mean more objects are detected. The mode
parameter determines how the threshold is calculated. As a rule of
thumb, use mode="constant" if the number of objects changes significantly
between images, and use mode="quantile" if the number of objects is
roughly constant between images.
Then plot the positions of the cells for some representative images,
using Listing 6-30.
   plt.figure(figsize=(15, 10))
➊ for plot_idx, frame_idx in enumerate([0, 300, 600, 900, 1200, 1500]):
       image, *props = pip(sources[frame_idx])
       torch_image = torch.from_numpy(image).permute(2, 0, 
1).unsqueeze(0).float()
    ➋ detections = lodestar.detect(torch_image, alpha=alpha, beta=beta, 
                                    mode="constant", cutoff=cutoff)[0]
       plt.subplot(1, 6, plot_idx + 1)
       plt.imshow(image, cmap="gray")
    ➌ plt.scatter(detections[:, 1], detections[:, 0], s=5, color="red")

--- Strana 420 ---
       plt.axis("off")
   plt.tight_layout()
   plt.show()
Listing 6-30: Determining and plotting the positions of the cells in the images
This code estimates the positions of the cells in a subset of frames ➊
by using the LodeSTAR detect() method ➋ and then plots those
positions on the original images as dots ➌. Figure 6-13 shows the
results.
Figure 6-13: The positions of the cells detected by LodeSTAR
You should see the positions of the detected cells plotted as dots on
top of the images, corresponding to proliferating mouse hematopoietic
stem cells. Overall, your results should be quite good, like those shown
in Figure 6-13. If needed, you can tune the parameters in Listing 6-29
to further improve the results, starting from cutoff. For example, if the
model misses some cells, the cutoff parameter can be decreased. If the
model detects too many cells, the cutoff parameter can be increased.
In Figure 6-13, there aren’t many obvious errors. You can therefore
proceed to quantitatively evaluate the model by measuring the F1 score.
Given the true positive (TP), the false positive (FP), and the false
negative (FN) detections, the F1 score is:
F1 score =
2TP
2TP + FP + FN

--- Strana 421 ---
This is the harmonic mean of the precision TP/(TP + FP) and the recall
TP / (TP + FN). You can calculate the F1 score by using Listing 6-31.
   import scipy, tqdm 
   distance_th = 10
   TP, FP, FN = 0, 0, 0
➊ for source in tqdm.tqdm(sources[::10]):
       image, *props = pip(source)
       torch_image = torch.from_numpy(image).permute(2, 0, 
1).unsqueeze(0).float()
       detections = lodestar.detect(torch_image, alpha=alpha, beta=beta,
                                 mode="constant", cutoff=cutoff)[0]
       centroids = np.array([prop.centroid[:2] for prop in props])
       distance_matrix = scipy.spatial.distance_matrix(detections, centroids)
       row_idx, col_idx = scipy.optimize.linear_sum_assignment(distance_matrix)
       filtered_row_ind = row_idx[distance_matrix[row_idx, col_idx] < 
distance_th]
       filtered_col_ind = col_idx[distance_matrix[row_idx, col_idx] < 
distance_th]
       TP += len(filtered_row_ind)
       FP += len(detections) - len(filtered_row_ind)
       FN += len(centroids) - len(filtered_col_ind)
   F1 = 2 * TP / (2 * TP + FP + FN)
   print(f"TP: {TP} FP: {FP} FN: {FN} F1: {F1}")
Listing 6-31: Calculating the F1 score to quantify the neural network performance
Because of the similarity between the images in the dataset, you can
expedite the evaluation process by analyzing only every 10th frame ➊.
When we ran the code, we got the following results: TP: 6459, FP: 339,
FN: 16, and F1: 0.973. The high TP number and the F1 score close to 1

--- Strana 422 ---
indicate that the model is highly effective in correctly identifying cell
positions. The relatively low FP and FN numbers suggest that the
model has both good precision and recall, making it reliable for this
task. However, you may get better or worse results. In fact, because of
the extremely small training set, the results may vary significantly
between runs.
NOTE
Code Example 6-A, “Localizing Multiple Cells Using LodeSTAR,” is
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate 
to 
the 
Ch06_SelfSupervised 
folder 
and 
then
ec06_A_cell_localization. The cell_localization.ipynb notebook
provides a complete code example that trains a convolutional neural
network to detect cells, using a single crop of a cell; the example then
evaluates the performance of the trained network on all the images
available in the sequence.
Summary
In this chapter, you delved into self-supervised learning, a subfield of
deep learning that’s transforming the way you can use unlabeled data by
exploiting hidden structures and symmetries present in the data. While
exploring the mechanisms used by machines to learn from data without
explicit annotations, you focused on the distinctions and potential
applications of contrastive and non-contrastive learning paradigms.
Contrastive learning is particularly effective when distinguishing
between similar and dissimilar data points is crucial, such as in image-
recognition or clustering tasks. Non-contrastive learning excels when
defining negative samples is challenging or ambiguous, such as in
certain medical imaging or NLP tasks.
You also used self-supervised geometric learning to train a neural
network to determine an object’s position in an image by using the
equivariances of translations and flips in the training process. This gave

--- Strana 423 ---
you detailed insights into the underpinning of the LodeSTAR algorithm
for unsupervised particle detection. In particular, you should now
understand how the equivariances of translations and flips can be used
to effectively and accurately localize objects, such as particles and cells,
in images. This approach demonstrates the importance of designing
learning algorithms that can inherently recognize and utilize the
properties of data, leading to more robust and accurate models. In the
project, you used LodeSTAR to apply what you learned to localize cells.
You should now have a good understanding of self-supervised
learning and its potential. From its capacity to use unlabeled data, to its
ability to enhance model robustness and feature extraction by exploiting
the symmetries intrinsic to the problem at hand, you now have the
theoretical knowledge and practical skills necessary to navigate and
innovate in this field. In the next chapter, you’ll learn about tools that
enable you to explore data that naturally comes as sequences, such as
time series and natural speech.
Seminal Works and Further Reading
The concept of using pretext tasks to learn visual representations
without labeled data was first formalized in 2015 by Carl Doersch et al.
in “Unsupervised Visual Representation Learning by Context
Prediction,” published in Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference
on Computer Vision (ICCV, pages 1,422–1,430) and on arXiv (article
number 1505.05192). This work demonstrated how predicting the
relative position of patches within an image could enable networks to
learn meaningful features in an unsupervised manner.
A major leap forward in self-supervised learning was the
introduction of contrastive learning techniques. One of the foundational
works in this field is “A Simple Framework for Contrastive Learning of
Visual Representations” by Ting Chen et al., published in 2020 in
Proceedings of the International Conference on Machine Learning (pages
1,597–1,607). This work introduced a framework that relies on
augmentations of the same image as positive pairs, while considering
other images as negatives.

--- Strana 424 ---
Jean-Bastien Grill et al. proposed non-contrastive learning, which
focuses on learning representations without explicitly relying on
negative pairs, in “Bootstrap Your Own Latent: A New Approach to
Self-Supervised Learning,” published in 2020 in Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS, volume 33, pages 21,271–
21,284).
Geometric contrastive learning was introduced in 2022 by Benjamin
Midtvedt et al. in “Single-Shot Self-Supervised Object Detection in
Microscopy,” published in Nature Communications (volume 13, article
number 7492). The proposed method, named LodeSTAR, applies self-
supervised learning to optical microscopy, using geometric consistency
to improve the localization and classification of single particles.
CHALLENGE PROJECTS
6-1: Anomaly detection in brain MRI images  Use the RSNA-
MICCAI Brain Tumor Radiogenomic Classification dataset
available on Kaggle to develop a self-supervised learning model for
anomaly detection in brain MRI images. Employ a contrastive
learning approach to train your model to differentiate between
normal and abnormal brain structures without using labeled data.
After training, apply your model to identify unusual patterns that
could indicate the presence of tumors or other anomalies.
6-2: Self-supervised learning for predictive maintenance in
aerospace  Access the NASA Turbofan Engine Degradation
Simulation dataset from the Prognostics Center of Excellence
dataset repository to create a self-supervised learning model for
predictive maintenance of aircraft engines. Use non-contrastive
learning to analyze the sensor data (temperature, pressure,
vibration, and so on) and learn normal versus abnormal
operational patterns. Your goal is to predict potential failures or
maintenance needs before they lead to actual problems.

--- Strana 425 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 426 ---
7
PROCESSING TIME SERIES AND
LANGUAGE WITH RECURRENT NEURAL
NETWORKS
In this chapter, you’ll learn about recurrent neural networks, a class of
neural networks particularly suited to handle sequential data, such as
time series and videos.
You’ll start by coding a standard recurrent neural network with
PyTorch. Then you’ll embed it into a Deeplay model, streamlining it for
ease of use and learning how to implement your own models in
Deeplay. Finally, you’ll tackle real-world problems like temperature
forecasting and language translation.
Understanding Recurrent Neural Networks
Unlike the neural networks you’ve encountered until now that treat
each data sample independently, recurrent neural networks are designed to
analyze data in a sequence, which is useful, for example, for analyzing
time series and videos.

--- Strana 427 ---
This type of network uses recurrence relations, mathematical
operations applied to sequences in which the value of an element is
determined by the preceding elements. For example, the location of an
object in one frame of a movie often provides useful information about
where that object will be in subsequent frames. Recurrent neural
networks use a form of memory to utilize this past history.
Using a Comb Filter
To illustrate how recurrence relations work in practice, think about
processing a numerical sequence that has as the output of one step the
average of the current input and the output of the preceding step. This
procedure of reintroducing the output as part of the input establishes a
feedback loop.
In signal processing, this technique is known as a comb filter. Comb
filters are used in various sound effects such as reverb (which simulates
the echoes and reflections of sound within an acoustic space), flanging
(which mixes a signal with a slightly delayed copy of itself to produce a
distinctive swirling sound), and pitch shifting (which changes the pitch of
a sound without altering its duration, allowing for adjustments in
musical key or tonality).
You can implement a comb filter with the code in Listing 7-1.
input_series = [0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]
hidden_state, U, V = 0, 0.5, 0.5
output_series = []
for input_data in input_series:
 ➊ hidden_state = U * input_data + V * hidden_state
    output_data = hidden_state
    output_series.append(output_data)
Listing 7-1: Implementing a comb filter
This simple comb filter operates on the input_series list, which
corresponds to a square wave. The hidden_state variable is initialized to 0
and, in this example, simply records the output at the preceding step.

--- Strana 428 ---
The U constant determines the weight of the current input (input_data) in
the calculation, while the V constant defines the weight of the hidden_state
variable. Here, these variables are set so that both input_data and
hidden_state each contribute 50 percent to the final output.
This code then iteratively applies the comb filter to each value in the
input series. First, the code calculates the updated average by weighing
the current input and the preceding state and saves that average into the
hidden_state variable ➊. Then the current output (output_data) is set to the
value of the hidden_state variable. And finally, output_data is appended to
the output_series list.
By printing the output series with
print(f"Output Series: {[f'{x:.2f}' for x in output_series]}")
you get this:
Output Series: ['0.00', '0.00', '0.00', '0.00', '0.50', '0.75', '0.88', '0.94', 
'0.97', '0.98', '0.99', '1.00', '0.50', '0.25', '0.12', '0.06', '0.03', '0.02', 
'0.01', '0.00']
When the input signal suddenly becomes equal to 1, the output series
slowly starts increasing, reaching the value of 1 after some delay. A
similar behavior occurs as the input changes to 0, which causes the
output to decrease to 0 over multiple steps.
Understanding a Simple Recurrent Neural Network
Just as in a comb filter used to feed the preceding hidden state back as
an additional input, a recurrent neural network also feeds its hidden
state back in as an additional input. This feedback mechanism, as
illustrated on the left side of Figure 7-1, enables the network to
maintain a form of memory and effectively analyze sequential data.

--- Strana 429 ---
Figure 7-1: The working principle of a recurrent neural network
On the right side of Figure 7-1, the recurrent neural network is
shown unfolded in time, highlighting its sequential computation
process. The network receives a value of the input series as input. Next,
the network transforms the input through a hidden layer, which
combines the input and the previously memorized hidden state to
determine the new hidden state. Then the network calculates the output
through an additional layer, which is now different from the hidden
state, unlike in the previous comb filter example.
You can implement this recurrent neural network by updating
Listing 7-1 as shown in Listing 7-2.
   import numpy as np
   def sigmoid(x):
       """Simple implementation of sigmoid function."""
       return 1 / (1 + np.exp(-x))
   input_series = [0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]
   hidden_state = 0

--- Strana 430 ---
   
➊ U, V, W, b = np.random.normal(size=4)
   output_series = []
   for input_data in input_series:
    ➋ hidden_state = sigmoid(U * input_data + V * hidden_state + b)
    ➌ output_data = sigmoid(W * hidden_state)
       output_series.append(output_data)
Listing 7-2: Implementing a recurrent neural network in NumPy (by modifying Listing 7-1)
In this code, the weights of the network are randomly initialized ➊.
As in the previous example, hidden_state is computed by combining the
input and previous hidden state, as well as by adding a bias ➋. Then the
result is transformed with a sigmoid function to introduce a
nonlinearity. Finally, the code computes the output as the product of the
hidden state with an output weight transformed by a sigmoid function
to introduce an additional nonlinearity ➌. Of course, since this simple
neural network is randomly initialized, the output series will be random.
EXERCISES
7-1:  Although the preceding example shows the principle behind
recurrent neural networks, you can’t use it to solve any concrete
problem without training the weights. To do so, implement
recurrent backpropagation and use it to train the recurrent neural
network to perform simple operations on a time series (for
example, to damp a sinusoidal wave).
7-2:  Generalize this implementation of a recurrent neural
network to accept multidimensional vectors as input and output.
Also in this case, implement recurrent backpropagation and train
the network to perform simple tasks on a time series (for example,

--- Strana 431 ---
the next set of coordinates in a 2D moving object’s trajectory based
on its past positions).
Predicting Temperature with Recurrent Neural
Networks
In this section, you’ll learn how to implement and train various
recurrent neural networks to predict temperature. You’ll use the Jena
Climate dataset, which you’ll first load and preprocess. Then you’ll
build and train some simple recurrent neural networks. Finally, you’ll
progress to more-complex architectures like gated recurrent units and
long short-term memory networks.
Loading the Jena Climate Dataset
The Jena Climate dataset contains time series recorded at the Max
Planck Institute for Biogeochemistry in Jena, Germany. The dataset is
made up of 14 weather measurements recorded every 10 minutes over
several years, from January 1, 2009, to December 31, 2016.
The dataset is contained in the jena_climate_2009_2016.csv file,
which you can load using Listing 7-3.
import pandas as pd
dataframe = pd.read_csv("jena_climate_2009_2016.csv", index_col=0)
data = dataframe.values
header = dataframe.columns.tolist()
Listing 7-3: Loading the Jena Climate dataset
This code loads the dataset into the data variable, and the list of
measured quantities into the header variable. The parameter index_col=0
means that the first column of the .csv file, which contains the
timestamps, is used as the index of dataframe instead of being included as
data. You can display the header and the first few elements of the dataset
with print(dataframe.head()).

--- Strana 432 ---
Now visualize the time series of the Jena Climate dataset with the
code in Listing 7-4.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np
start, days, daily_samples = 0, 14, 144
end = start + daily_samples * days
fig, axs = plt.subplots(7, 2, figsize=(16, 12), sharex=True)
for i, ax in enumerate(axs.flatten()):
 ➊ ax.plot(np.arange(start, end), data[start:end, i], label=header[i])
    ax.set_xlim(start, end)
    ax.tick_params(axis="both", which="major", labelsize=16)
    ax.legend(fontsize=20)
 
    for day in range(1, days):
     ➋ ax.axvline(x=start + daily_samples * day,
                   color="gray", linestyle="--", linewidth=0.5)
plt.tight_layout()
plt.show()
Listing 7-4: Visualizing the Jena Climate dataset
This code plots a portion of the time series, starting with the first
sample (start) and over a range of 14 days (days); each day has 144
samples (daily_samples), one every 10 minutes. Then the code calculates
the end of the time range to plot (end). Finally, the code plots the data
for the chosen time range ➊ as well as vertical lines to highlight each
day ➋.
Figure 7-2 shows the resulting plots.

--- Strana 433 ---
Figure 7-2: The time series of the Jena Climate dataset
The data has periodicity, such as the daily rise and fall of
temperature. You can explore different ranges of data over different
timescales by changing the start and days parameters in the plotting
code.
EXERCISE
7-3:  In the plotted dataset, several measured quantities are so
highly correlated that they provide redundant information.
Removing irrelevant features can help reduce overfitting, which in

--- Strana 434 ---
turn can improve the model’s performance. Additionally, reducing
the number of features enhances the explainability of the model by
making it easier to understand and interpret.
Analyze the correlations among the quantities to identify
redundant features and then select a minimal set of representative
features. For example, using correlation matrix analysis, you could
examine the correlation coefficients between pairs of features to
identify those with high correlation (for example, above 0.8 or 0.9)
so that you can remove one of the correlated features.
Execute the code of the following sections by using all the
features and then only the minimal set to observe the difference in
the trained model’s performance.
Preprocessing the Data
Now that you’ve loaded the dataset, your objective is to train a
recurrent neural network to predict the temperature at a given time of
day based on the weather information collected during an earlier period
—say, two days. To do this, you’ll need to reformat and normalize the
data.
Reformatting
First, reshape the data to fit the expected format for training the
recurrent neural network to predict temperature, using the code in
Listing 7-5.
   n_samples, n_features = data.shape[0], data.shape[1]
➊ past_seq = 2 * daily_samples
➋ lag = 72
➌ temp_idx = 1  # Temperature (Celsius) index
   in_sequences, targets = [], []
   for i in range(past_seq, n_samples - lag, daily_samples):
       in_sequences.append(data[i - past_seq:i, :])

--- Strana 435 ---
       targets.append(data[i + lag:i + lag + 1, temp_idx])
   in_sequences, targets = np.asarray(in_sequences), np.asarray(targets)
Listing 7-5: Reshaping the data for the recurrent neural network
This code extracts the total number of samples (n_samples) and the
number of features (n_features, the 14 types of weather data). Then it
defines the length of the sequences to be fed to the recurrent neural
network as inputs ➊ (calculated as the number of days times the number
of samples per day); the prediction lag ➋ (how many time steps ahead in
time the recurrent neural network should predict temperature—72,
providing the temperature at 12:00 PM of the following day); and the
index of the target time series to be the temperature in degrees Celsius
➌. In the for loop, the code fills the input sequences with the time series,
and the targets with the temperature values at the prediction time.
Finally, the code converts the input sequences and targets into NumPy
arrays.
Check the shape of the inputs via print(in_sequences.shape), which
prints (2918, 288, 14), and check the shape of the targets via
print(targets.shape), which prints (2918, 1). This means that you have
2,918 sequences for training and validating your neural network.
Now you’ll need to determine which sequences to use for training
and which to use for validation, using Listing 7-6.
import deeptrack as dt
sources = dt.sources.Source(inputs=in_sequences, targets=targets)
train_sources, val_sources = dt.sources.random_split(sources, [0.8, 0.2])
Listing 7-6: Splitting the data into training and validation datasets
This code defines the dataset sources and splits them into training
and validation datasets in the proportions 80 percent and 20 percent.
Normalizing
Reviewing Figure 7-2, you can see that the data spans a broad range of
values with features on considerably different scales, which isn’t ideal for
neural network training. In these conditions, some weights may update

--- Strana 436 ---
faster than others because the feature values influence the magnitude of
the gradients used by the backpropagation algorithm. This can lead to
slower convergence or even divergence of the learning algorithm.
To mitigate these issues, you can rescale all the features to a mean of
0 and a standard deviation of 1. This step simplifies the network’s
training. However, be careful not to inadvertently discard crucial
information when normalizing your data. For example, temperature
trends over months or years might show gradual shifts. Normalizing the
data without considering these long-term trends can obscure
meaningful patterns. A better approach might be detrending the data
before applying normalization.
Listing 7-7 normalizes the data by subtracting the mean and
dividing by the standard deviation of the training set, using DeepTrack2
pipelines.
import torch
train_mean = np.mean([src["inputs"] for src in train_sources], axis=(0, 1))
train_std = np.std([src["inputs"] for src in train_sources], axis=(0, 1))
inputs_pipeline = (dt.Value(sources.inputs - train_mean) / train_std 
                   >> dt.pytorch.ToTensor(dtype=torch.float))
targets_pipeline = (dt.Value(sources.targets - train_mean[temp_idx]) 
                    / train_std[temp_idx])
Listing 7-7: Normalizing the data
This code calculates the mean and the standard deviation of the
training dataset and defines pipelines to normalize the inputs and
targets.
Preparing the Training and Validation Data Loaders
Finally, prepare the training and validation data loaders with Listing 7-
8.
from torch.utils.data import DataLoader

--- Strana 437 ---
train_dataset = dt.pytorch.Dataset(inputs_pipeline & targets_pipeline, 
                                   inputs=train_sources)
val_dataset = dt.pytorch.Dataset(inputs_pipeline & targets_pipeline, 
                                 inputs=val_sources)
train_loader = DataLoader(train_dataset, batch_size=32, shuffle=True)
val_loader = DataLoader(val_dataset, batch_size=32, shuffle=False)
Listing 7-8: Defining the data loaders for the training and validation datasets
This code creates the training and validation datasets and data
loaders, which you’ll use in the next sections to train and validate the
neural networks.
Implementing a Commonsense Benchmark
You can now introduce a commonsense benchmark, which allows you to
compare your network’s results to a simple standard or “commonsense”
method as a reference. This is good practice in machine learning in
general because it provides a baseline to evaluate the performance of
your model. Without such a benchmark, determining whether your
model is genuinely effective can be difficult.
For temperature forecasting, a simple benchmark is to assume that
the next day’s temperature will be equal to the previous day’s
temperature at the same time. You can do this with Listing 7-9.
   temperature = data[:, temp_idx]
➊ benchmark_celsius = np.mean(
       np.abs(
           temperature[daily_samples + lag::daily_samples] 
           - temperature[lag:-(daily_samples - lag):daily_samples]
       )
   )
➋ benchmark = benchmark_celsius / train_std[temp_idx]
Listing 7-9: Defining a commonsense benchmark
This code extracts the temperature time series. Then the code
calculates the benchmark as the MAE between each day’s temperatures

--- Strana 438 ---
at midday and the preceding day’s temperatures at the same time ➊.
Finally, the code normalizes the benchmark by the standard deviation of
the training set ➋.
You can use print(f"Benchmark Celsius: {benchmark_celsius}") to print out
the value of the benchmark, which is 2.67◦C. Then you can print out the
value of the normalized benchmark with print(f"Normalized Benchmark:
{benchmark}"), which is 0.32. You’ll use the latter value to check whether
your trained network outperforms this commonsense benchmark.
Now you can implement a recurrent neural network and use it to
predict the temperature. In the following sections, you’ll implement
various recurrent neural networks and compare them with the
commonsense benchmark you just defined. Before doing that, you need
to choose an appropriate device for the computations.
Determining the Computational Device
Training recurrent neural networks is computationally expensive,
making it important to select an appropriate device that ensures
efficiency and speed. Usually, packages like PyTorch, Lightning, or
Deeplay handle this selection automatically. However, understanding
how to manually set the device can help you optimize the computation,
especially when writing models from scratch, as you’re doing in this
chapter.
You can select the device via the get_device() function in Listing 7-10.
def get_device():
    """Select device where to perform the computations."""
    if torch.cuda.is_available():
     ➊ return torch.device("cuda:0")
    elif torch.backends.mps.is_available():
     ➋ return torch.device("mps")
    else:
     ➌ return torch.device("cpu")
Listing 7-10: The function to determine the device to be used for computations

--- Strana 439 ---
This function selects a GPU if it’s available ➊ ➋. If not, the function
selects the CPU ➌. The cuda:0 statement selects the first GPU if
multiple GPUs are available and is equivalent to just cuda in most cases.
The mps statement selects the Apple Silicon GPU device on macOS, if
available.
You can use this function with the code shown in Listing 7-11.
device = get_device()
Listing 7-11: Selecting the device to be used to perform the computations
You can now use print(device) to see which device has been selected,
which will depend on your hardware.
NOTE
Unlike the Compute Unified Device Architecture (CUDA)
backend for PyTorch (which is highly stable and well tested for GPU
computations), the integration of Apple’s Metal Performance
Shaders (MPS) backend is relatively recent. Therefore, you may
encounter bugs or instabilities, especially when working with large
tensors. These instabilities often manifest as inconsistent loss values or
erratic gradients during training. If you experience such issues, you can
try to reduce the model size (smaller models might reduce the load on
the MPS backend and mitigate instability) or the batch size
(decreasing the data batch size can help manage memory constraints
and improve stability). If the issues persist, you can fall back to
running the code on the CPU, which is more stable but significantly
slower. Additionally, to ensure that training is proceeding as expected,
consider comparing results between shorter training runs on the CPU
and MPS. This comparison can help identify whether the instabilities
are affecting the convergence of the model.
Predicting with a Simple Recurrent Neural Network
You can now implement a simple recurrent neural network in PyTorch,
as shown in Listing 7-12.

--- Strana 440 ---
   import torch.nn as nn
   rnn = nn.RNN(input_size=in_sequences.shape[2], hidden_size=2, 
batch_first=True)
   fc = nn.Linear(in_features=2, out_features=1)
➊ rnn.to(device); fc.to(device);
Listing 7-12: Defining a recurrent neural network in PyTorch
This code defines a simple recurrent neural network with two
hidden units (rnn), which will transform the input time series into a
sequence of hidden states. The code also separately defines a linear
(fully connected) dense layer (fc), which will take the last hidden state of
the network and use it to estimate the expected temperature. Finally, the
computations are moved to the selected device ➊.
Training
Listing 7-13 provides a script for training this neural network. This is
also a good example of a training loop written in PyTorch from scratch.
   criterion = nn.L1Loss()  # MAE Loss
➊ parameter_list = list(rnn.parameters()) + list(fc.parameters())
   optimizer = torch.optim.Adam(parameter_list, lr=0.001)
   epochs = 100
   for epoch in range(epochs):
       for in_sequences, targets in train_loader:
        ➋ optimizer.zero_grad()
        ➌ in_sequences, targets = in_sequences.to(device), targets.to(device)
        ➍ hidden_sequences, _ = rnn(in_sequences)  # RNN layer
        ➎ last_hidden_states = hidden_sequences[:, -1, :]  # Last hidden states
        ➏ predictions = fc(last_hidden_states)  # Linear layer
        
           loss = criterion(predictions, targets)
        ➐ loss.backward()

--- Strana 441 ---
        ➑ optimizer.step()
       print(f"Epoch {epoch}")
Listing 7-13: Training the PyTorch recurrent neural network
This code defines the criterion used to calculate the loss. Then the
parameters (weights and biases) of the recurrent neural network and the
linear layer are combined into one list ➊, which is then passed to the
optimizer to update during training. Next, the code trains the neural
network for the set number of epochs.
In each epoch, the code iterates over the batches of data provided by
train_loader. The loop first resets the gradients of the model parameters
to 0 to prevent accumulation from previous iterations ➋. Then the code
transfers the in_sequences and targets tensors to the device ➌, feeds the
input sequences through the recurrent layer ➍, and selects the last
hidden states of hidden_sequences returned by the recurrent layer ➎. These
last hidden states are then passed through the linear layer ➏ to obtain
the final output predictions of the next day’s temperatures. The criterion
computes the loss between the model’s predictions and the actual
targets, which is then used to calculate the gradients of the model
parameters ➐. Finally, these gradients are used to update the model’s
weights during the optimization step ➑.
Monitoring the Training Loss
To gain more insights into the training process and ensure that the
model is learning effectively, you can update Listing 7-13 to print the
loss in each epoch, as shown in Listing 7-14. Monitoring the training
loss helps you detect issues such as overfitting, underfitting, or
convergence problems, allowing you to make necessary adjustments to
the training parameters or model architecture.
--snip--
train_losses = []
for epoch in range(epochs):
    train_loss = 0.0
    for in_sequences, targets in train_loader:

--- Strana 442 ---
        --snip--
     ➊ train_loss += loss.item()
    train_losses.append(train_loss / len(train_loader))
    print(f"Epoch {epoch} Training Loss: {train_losses[-1]:.4f}")
Listing 7-14: Printing the training loss for each epoch (by modifying Listing 7-13)
This updated code allows you to observe the training’s progress. At
the beginning of each training epoch, the code initializes the train_loss
variable to track the loss accumulated over the epoch. Then the loss for
each batch is added to the running total for the epoch ➊. Finally, the
code saves the loss in the train_losses list and prints it.
Monitoring the Validation Loss
You can also monitor the evolution of the validation loss during
training, using Listing 7-15.
--snip--
train_losses, val_losses = [], []
for epoch in range(epochs):
    --snip--
    val_loss = 0.0
 ➊ with torch.no_grad():
        for in_sequences, targets in val_loader:
            in_sequences, targets = in_sequences.to(device), targets.to(device)
            hidden_sequences, _ = rnn(in_sequences)
            last_hidden_states = hidden_sequences[:, -1, :]
            predictions = fc(last_hidden_states)
            loss = criterion(predictions, targets)
            val_loss += loss.item()
        val_losses.append(val_loss / len(val_loader))
        print(f"Epoch {epoch} Validation Loss: {val_losses[-1]:.4f}")
Listing 7-15: Monitoring the evolution of the validation loss (by modifying Listing 7-14)
This code calculates, saves, and prints the loss for the validation set.
The calculations are similar to those of the training code in Listing 7-

--- Strana 443 ---
13, except that there is no backpropagation step, so the code is executed
without calculating the gradients ➊.
Plotting the Training and Validation Losses
Visualizing the evolution of the training and validation losses can help
you identify trends and potential issues during training, such as
overfitting or underfitting. To plot the losses during training, you can
implement the plot_training() function shown in Listing 7-16.
def plot_training(epochs, train_losses, val_losses, benchmark):
    """Plot the training and validation losses."""
    plt.plot(range(epochs), train_losses, label="Training Loss")
    plt.plot(range(epochs), val_losses, "--", label="Validation Loss")
    plt.plot([0, epochs - 1], [benchmark, benchmark], ":k", label="Benchmark")
    plt.xlabel("Epoch")
    plt.xlim([0, epochs - 1])
    plt.ylabel("Loss")
    plt.legend()
    plt.show()
Listing 7-16: The function to plot the training and validation losses
Then use plot_training() with this command:
plot_training(epochs, train_losses, val_losses, benchmark)
This should plot something similar to Figure 7-3.

--- Strana 444 ---
Figure 7-3: Training and validation losses for the simple recurrent neural network
The training and validation losses both decrease during training,
reaching an MAE of about 0.36 for the training loss and 0.38 for the
validation loss. Even though these results might appear good, they are
worse than the 0.32 MAE obtained with the commonsense benchmark
(represented by the dotted line). Therefore, this network has less
predictive power than saying that the temperature will be the same as
that of the preceding day. You’ll see how to improve on this in the
following sections.
Implementing the Network in Deeplay
Before proceeding, you can reimplement the preceding recurrent neural
network in a more compact form by using Deeplay, as shown in Listing
7-17.
   import deeplay as dl
   rnn_dl = dl.RecurrentModel(

--- Strana 445 ---
       in_features=n_features, 
       hidden_features=[2],
       out_features=1,
    ➊ rnn_type="RNN",
   )
➋ rnn_simple = dl.Regressor(rnn_dl, optimizer=dl.Adam(lr=0.001)).create()
Listing 7-17: Defining a recurrent neural network in Deeplay
Besides the number of input, hidden, and output features, you can
further specify the type of network ➊, which here is set to RNN (the
default value). You can visualize the model architecture via print(rnn_dl).
The code then compiles the neural network as a regression
application that uses the Adam optimizer ➋. You can print out the
details of this compiled application with print(rnn_simple).
You can train this recurrent neural network and display the learning
curves with Listing 7-18.
trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=epochs, accelerator="auto")
trainer.fit(rnn_simple, train_loader, val_loader)
train_losses = trainer.history.history["train_loss_epoch"]["value"]
val_losses = trainer.history.history["val_loss_epoch"]["value"][1:]
plot_training(epochs, train_losses, val_losses, benchmark)
Listing 7-18: Training the Deeplay recurrent neural network
This code creates a trainer that automatically checks the availability
of an accelerating device (eliminating the need to use get_device() from
Listing 7-10). The code then proceeds to the training via the fit()
method of the trainer.
The losses calculated during training and validation are
automatically logged in the history field of the trainer, where you can
retrieve them. The plot of the training and validation losses should be
similar to Figure 7-3, which you obtained by using the explicit PyTorch
implementation in Listings 7-13, 7-14, and 7-15.
Stacking Multiple Recurrent Layers

--- Strana 446 ---
To enhance the performance of your recurrent neural network, one
straightforward strategy is to increase the number of recurrent layers
and hidden-state features. In fact, stacking multiple recurrent layers can
help the network capture more-complex patterns and dependencies in
the time-series data.
You can think of stacked recurrent neural networks as individual
recurrent modules linked together, with the output of one module
acting as input to the next. Unlike the output layer, where only the final
element of the output time series is returned, each layer of a stacked
recurrent neural network forwards the entire time series it computes to
the next layer. This permits each layer to process the entire time-
dependent sequence, allowing the network to discover and understand
the temporal patterns in the input data.
Similar to the deep convolutional neural networks you encountered
in Chapter 3, the first layers tend to learn basic and generic features,
while deeper layers can learn task-specific features. In this way, each
subsequent layer can build a more sophisticated understanding of the
sequential data, recognizing complex patterns based on the simpler
patterns recognized by the previous layers.
With more parameters to adjust, stacked recurrent neural networks
have a greater learning capacity, allowing them to analyze more-
complex time series. These networks can remember information over
longer sequences, which is beneficial for tasks that require
understanding context over long time intervals.
However, stacking recurrent layers has potential downsides. As the
number of layers increases, training the network becomes more difficult
because the gradient can become too small (the vanishing gradient
problem) or too large (exploding gradients) to propagate useful learning
signals through all the layers. In addition, deeper networks have more
parameters and are therefore more prone to overfitting, especially if the
training data is limited.
You can implement a stacked recurrent neural network as shown in
Listing 7-19.

--- Strana 447 ---
   rnn_dl = dl.RecurrentModel(
       in_features=n_features,
    ➊ hidden_features=[16, 16, 16],
       out_features=1,
       rnn_type="RNN",
   )
➋ rnn_stacked = dl.Regressor(rnn_dl, optimizer=dl.Adam(lr=0.0001)).create()
   trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=epochs)
   trainer.fit(rnn_stacked, train_loader, val_loader)
   --snip--
Listing 7-19: Defining and training a stacked recurrent neural network (by modifying Listings
7-17 and 7-18)
This code updates the recurrent neural network to have three
hidden layers, each with 16 features ➊. A lower learning rate ➋ helps
smooth out the noise in the loss curve, ensuring more-stable
convergence during training.
This stacked recurrent neural network has about 1,600 trainable
parameters, whereas the simple architecture you used before (Listing 7-
17) had only 39. Thanks to this increased number of trainable
parameters, the stacked recurrent neural network achieves a better
performance than the simple one, but it still only reaches an MAE
similar to the commonsense benchmark. This indicates that while
stacking layers enhances the model’s capacity to learn, further
improvement is still necessary. You’ll now explore more-advanced
architectures that achieve better predictive performance.
Using Gated Recurrent Units
Let’s now introduce a different type of recurrent neural network, known
as the gated recurrent unit (GRU), shown in Figure 7-4.

--- Strana 448 ---
Figure 7-4: A gated recurrent unit (GRU)
As the name suggests, the GRU is characterized by the use of gates, a
key feature in modern neural networks inspired by the gating functions
found in biological neural systems. Gates play a crucial role in
regulating the flow of information. They’re designed to selectively
retain or forget information depending on its relevance to the task at
hand. They’re typically implemented using activation functions that
output values ranging from 0 to 1, acting as switches that can either
block information or allow it to pass.

--- Strana 449 ---
GRUs use two types of gates: the update gate and the reset gate.
The update gate helps the model determine how much of the
information from previous time steps needs to be passed along. This
gate controls the extent to which the previous state influences the
current state, balancing between old information and new inputs.
The reset gate is responsible for deciding how much of the past
information should be forgotten as the network processes new inputs.
This gate allows the GRU to discard information from the past that is
deemed unnecessary for the current context or future predictions. A
reset-gate value close to 0 allows the network to nearly forget the
previous hidden state, treating the new input as the start of a new
sequence. This capability is particularly useful when the sequence
contains distinct segments of information that don’t benefit from being
combined with prior data. In contrast, a reset-gate value close to 1
retains the previous hidden state, indicating that the new input should
be combined with the existing memory to inform the current state.
Since gating introduces additional parameters into the network, you
can integrate dropout into the training process to reduce the risk of
overfitting. Dropout randomly deactivates a subset of neurons during
each training iteration, temporarily preventing them from contributing
to the data processing. When these neurons are deactivated, other
neurons are forced to learn to use the information formerly handled by
the deactivated ones. Consequently, various neurons are forced to learn
and adapt to the information, ensuring that no single neuron becomes
overly specialized to specific traits of the training data.
A probability value determines the dropout rate, or the likelihood that
any given neuron will be turned off at each step. This technique
enhances the model’s ability to generalize to new, unseen data—for
example, to predict tomorrow’s temperature. Importantly, dropout is
used only during training; all neurons are fully active when the network
makes predictions, such as during validation or testing.
Update the network architecture to incorporate a GRU and dropout
as shown in Listing 7-20.

--- Strana 450 ---
gru_dl = dl.RecurrentModel(
    in_features=n_features,
    hidden_features=[8, 8, 8],
    out_features=1,
    rnn_type="GRU",
    dropout=0.2,
)
gru_stacked = dl.Regressor(gru_dl, optimizer=dl.Adam(lr=0.001)).create()
--snip--
trainer.fit(gru_stacked, train_loader, val_loader)
--snip--
Listing 7-20: Defining and training a stacked GRU network (by modifying Listing 7-19)
This code sets the network type to GRU and introduces dropout
with probability 0.2. The dropout is automatically applied to all the
layers except the last one.
Figure 7-5 shows the resulting learning curves.

--- Strana 451 ---
Figure 7-5: The training and validation losses for the recurrent neural network implemented
with GRUs
The learning curves show a noticeable improvement over the simple
recurrent neural network shown in Figure 7-3, achieving a validation
loss of 0.27—substantially lower than the commonsense benchmark.
Interestingly, the validation loss is consistently lower than the training
loss throughout the training process thanks to the use of dropout, which
randomly deactivates a subset of neurons during each training iteration.
During validation, all neurons are active, allowing the model to use the
full capacity of its learned features. In simpler terms, dropout helps the
network learn better during training by preventing overfitting, and the
model performs even better when all its neurons are used during
validation.
Using Long Short-Term Memory Networks
A long short-term memory (LSTM) network is an alternative architecture
that offers a more sophisticated gating mechanism than GRUs. LSTMs
are particularly suited for tasks requiring the capture of long-term

--- Strana 452 ---
dependencies, such as language translation, speech recognition, and
time-series forecasting—all cases where the influence of earlier data
points is significant. Figure 7-6 shows the structure of an LSTM
network.
Figure 7-6: A long short-term memory (LSTM) unit
LSTMs incorporate four gates: the input gate, the forget gate, the
cell gate, and the output gate. Together, these gates selectively preserve
or eliminate information over various time intervals. Specifically, the
input gate evaluates incoming data to identify crucial information used
to update the state; the forget gate determines how much information
from the previous state should be retained or discarded; the cell gate, also
called the candidate gate, generates new candidate values for updating the
cell state; and the output gate decides the composition of the next hidden
state, influencing the network’s subsequent outputs. More gating
mechanisms generally result in a higher number of parameters for
LSTMs compared to GRUs. This enhances the LSTMs’ ability to
model complex patterns while also increasing their risk of overfitting.
You can incorporate an LSTM as shown in Listing 7-21.

--- Strana 453 ---
lstm_dl = dl.RecurrentModel(
    --snip--
    rnn_type="LSTM",
    dropout=0.3,
)
lstm_stacked = dl.Regressor(lstm_dl, optimizer=dl.Adam(lr=0.001)).create()
--snip--
trainer.fit(lstm_stacked, train_loader, val_loader)
--snip--
Listing 7-21: Defining and training a stacked LSTM network (by modifying Listing 7-20)
As in the GRU case, this code requires only changing the network
type to LSTM. Furthermore, because the LSTM has more learnable
parameters than the GRU, the code increases the dropout rate to 0.3.
Figure 7-7 shows the resulting learning curves.
Figure 7-7: The training and validation losses for the recurrent neural network implemented
with LSTM units

--- Strana 454 ---
The behavior of the learning curves is qualitatively similar to that
observed for the GRU in Figure 7-5, achieving a similar validation loss
of about 0.27, well below the commonsense benchmark. However,
although these LSTM units achieve results similar to GRUs, LSTMs
generally are likely to outperform GRUs in more-complex tasks
involving crucial long-term dependencies, such as in language
modeling, speech recognition, and financial time-series forecasting.
As in the GRU case, the validation loss remains consistently lower
than the training loss because of the use of dropout. This difference is
accentuated by the higher dropout rate of 0.3 used in the LSTM units,
compared to 0.2 in the GRUs.
NOTE
Code Example 7-1: “Predicting Temperatures Using Recurrent
Neural 
Networks,” 
is 
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch07_RNN folder and then ec07_1_rnn. The
rnn.ipynb notebook provides a complete code example that uses
various kinds of recurrent neural networks to predict the temperature
in the Jena Climate dataset.
EXERCISE
7-4:  Construct a network that combines a stacked LSTM with a
preliminary dense network layer for preprocessing. This dense
layer provides a trainable embedding layer. After training this
composite model, evaluate its performance against that of the
stand-alone stacked LSTM.

--- Strana 455 ---
Project 7A: Translating with Recurrent Neural
Networks
Recurrent neural networks excel at processing sequences performing
sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) transformations. Because natural language
sentences are essentially sequences of words, recurrent neural networks
are ideal for natural language processing (NLP) tasks such as translation,
summarization, and question answering. In general, NLP involves the
interaction between computers and humans via natural language, with
applications ranging from machine translation and sentiment analysis to
chatbots.
To understand how this works, consider the task of translation. In a
seq2seq model, an encoder recurrent neural network reads and processes a
source language sentence word by word, capturing the meaning of the
entire sentence into its internal hidden state. This state, often called the
context vector, is then passed to the decoder. The decoder generates the
output sentence. Starting with the context vector from the encoder, the
decoder begins generating the sentence in the target language word by
word. Each generated word becomes part of the input for the next step
in the sequence, along with the updated internal state of the decoder’s
recurrent neural network. By learning to transform the source language
sentence (input sequence) into a target language sentence (output
sequence), the model effectively learns to map patterns from one
language to another.
In this project, you’ll use recurrent neural networks to implement a
seq2seq model to translate sentences from English to Spanish. For
example, given the English sentence “The cat sits on the mat,” your
encoder will process each word, compressing this information into a
context vector. Your decoder will then use this vector to produce the
Spanish sentence “El gato se sienta en la alfombra” one word at a time.
Using this ability to transform sequences of words, you’ll also learn to
develop neural networks to handle other NLP tasks.
Preparing the Bilingual Dataset

--- Strana 456 ---
To train the seq2seq model, you’ll use data from the ManyThings.org
website at https://www.manythings.org/anki/. This platform hosts
numerous datasets, referred to as Anki decks, which consist of flash cards
with bilingual sentence pairs across various language combinations.
Each dataset is downloadable in a simple text format, typically as a .txt
file with the naming convention language_1-language_2.txt. This file is
known as a corpus file and contains thousands of sentence pairs; each pair
consists of a sentence in one language and its translation into another.
This structure is ideally suited for training translation models.
You’ll use the eng-spa.txt file with English-to-Spanish translations.
Here are some excerpts from this file:
Go.  Ve.  CC-BY 2.0 ...
Go.  Vete.  CC-BY 2.0 ...
Go.  Vaya.  CC-BY 2.0 ...
Go.  Vάyase.  CC-BY 2.0 ...
Hi.  Hola.  CC-BY 2.0 ...
--snip--
Cheer up!  ¡Anímate!  CC-BY 2.0 ...
Cheer up!  Anímate.  CC-BY 2.0 ...
Cheer up.  Venga.  CC-BY 2.0 ...
--snip--
Each line consists of a sentence in English followed by its Spanish
translation, with some metadata at the end, separated by tab characters.
Before using this data to train and test the translation model, some
preprocessing is necessary. This includes loading the raw text data,
tokenizing it, building vocabularies, and preprocessing the data for the
model. You’ll finally construct data loaders to facilitate efficient batching
during training and testing.
Tokenizing the Sentences
The first preprocessing step is tokenization, which breaks sentences into
individual words, or tokens. Listing 7-22 defines a tokenize() function that
splits the input text into tokens based on punctuation and whitespaces.

--- Strana 457 ---
   import spacy
➊ tokenizers = {"eng": spacy.blank("en"), "spa": spacy.blank("es")}
   def tokenize(text, lang="eng"):
       """Tokenize text."""
       tokens = tokenizers[lang](text)
       return tokens
Listing 7-22: The function to tokenize a sentence
This code first initializes the English and Spanish tokenizers by
using spaCy models ➊. Since loading spaCy models can be time-
consuming because it requires loading large model files into memory
and initializing various components, the code executes this initialization
outside the tokenize() function to run it only once and minimize the
initialization overhead.
The output of this function is a spaCy Doc object, which contains a
sequence of Token objects representing the individual words and symbols
extracted from the input text. Each token in this Doc object can be
accessed by using a loop or by converting the Doc object into a list of
strings. For example, you can tokenize a sentence by using
print([token.text for token in tokenize("This is a simple example!")])
which results in:
['This', 'is', 'a', 'simple', 'example', '!']
You can see that each word and punctuation mark has been separated.
Handling Contractions
Basic tokenization may not be sufficient for complex sentences,
especially those containing contractions. While contractions are
commonly used in English, language models can struggle with them
because they can represent the same idea in multiple forms, leading to
inconsistencies in understanding. Listing 7-23 enhances the tokenize()
function by expanding English contractions into their full forms.

--- Strana 458 ---
import contractions, spacy
--snip--
def tokenize(text, lang="eng"):
    """Tokenize text."""
    text = contractions.fix(text) if lang == "eng" else text
    tokens = tokenizers[lang](text)
    return tokens
Listing 7-23: The function to tokenize a sentence while expanding contractions (by
modifying Listing 7-22)
Once you’ve finished, use this updated function with
print([token.text for token in tokenize("This isn't the same example!")])
which results in:
['This', 'is', 'not', 'the', 'same', 'example', '!']
Note that "isn't" is handled correctly.
Removing Noise
Text data often contains elements that are irrelevant to the task, such as
some punctuation and nonalphabetic characters. These elements are
treated as noise in the context of NLP. Listing 7-24 further refines the
tokenize() function by removing such noise.
import contractions, re, spacy, unicodedata
--snip--
regular_expression = r"^[a-zA-Z0-9áéíóúüñÁÉÍÓÚÜÑ.,!?¡¿/:()]+$"
pattern = re.compile(unicodedata.normalize("NFC", regular_expression))
def tokenize(text, lang="eng"):
    """Tokenize text."""
 ➊ swaps = {"’": "'", "'": "'", "“": '"', "”": '"', "´": "'", "´´": '"'}
    for old, new in swaps.items():
        text = text.replace(old, new)
    text = contractions.fix(text) if lang == "eng" else text

--- Strana 459 ---
    tokens = tokenizers[lang](text)
 ➋ return [token.text for token in tokens if pattern.match(token.text)]
Listing 7-24: The function to tokenize a sentence while dealing with contractions and
removing noise (by modifying Listing 7-23)
This function replaces various types of quotation marks and
apostrophes with their ASCII equivalents ➊. Tokens are then filtered to
retain only those matching a regular expression (pattern) that consist of
alphanumeric characters (a-zA-Z0-9) or some punctuation marks (.,!?¡¿/:
()). Note that now the returned tokens are already strings of text and
not Token objects contained in a Doc object ➋.
For example, you can use this function with
print([token for token in tokenize("Double-check your code!")])
which results in:
['Double', 'check', 'your', 'code', '!']
The code has correctly separated the compound word Double-check.
NOTE
In Unicode, the widely adopted text-encoding standard, some
characters can be encoded in different ways. Characters with accent
marks (used in some languages, such as Spanish and French), like the
letter é, can be represented as either a single precomposed character (é),
known as Normalization Form C (NFC), or the base letter e followed
by a combining accent mark (´), known as Normalization Form D
(NFD). Having different representations of the same character exist
in the text could lead to mismatches during tokenization and filtering.
The unicode.normalize() function normalizes the text to NFC to ensure
consistency in the way characters are represented. Applying NFC
standardizes these characters into their precomposed form, ensuring
that all instances of the same character are handled uniformly
throughout the processing pipeline. This reduces the risk of errors and
ensures that pattern matching works reliably. When working
exclusively with non-accented languages like English, normalization

--- Strana 460 ---
might not have a significant impact. In addition, characters like ´, `,
´´, and `` can have different representations that might cause similar
issues if not handled properly.
Implementing a Corpus Iterator
Next, you need the corpus_iterator() function in Listing 7-25 to apply this
tokenization to all the sentences contained in the datafile.
def corpus_iterator(filename, lang, lang_position):
    """Read and tokenize texts by iterating through a corpus file."""
    with open(filename, "r", encoding="utf-8") as file:
        for line in file:
            sentences = line.strip().split("\t")
            sentence = unicodedata.normalize("NFC", sentences[lang_position])
            yield tokenize(sentence, lang)
Listing 7-25: The function to read and tokenize sentences by iterating through a corpus file
This function opens the specified file in read mode with UTF-8
encoding to ensure compatibility with various languages and special
characters. The function reads the file line by line. Each line contains a
sentence in the source language and its translation in the target
language, separated by a tab character. The function strips any
extraneous whitespace from the line and splits it into components based
on the tab character. The function then selects either the first (English)
or second (Spanish) element (identified by lang_position) of the split line
as the sentence to be tokenized and normalizes it to NFC. Finally, the
function tokenizes the selected text via the tokenize() function and yields
the tokenized sentence for further processing.
Building a Vocabulary
Once the text has been tokenized and cleaned, the next step is to
convert these tokens into numerical representations. This involves
building a vocabulary that maps each unique token to an integer.
Start by implementing the Vocab class in Listing 7-26.

--- Strana 461 ---
class Vocab:
    """Vocabulary as callable dictionary."""
 
    def __init__(self, vocab_dict, unk_token="<unk>"):
        """Initialize vocabulary."""
        self.vocab_dict, self.unk_token = vocab_dict, unk_token
        self.default_index = vocab_dict.get(unk_token, -1)
        self.index_to_token = {idx: token for token, idx in vocab_dict.items()}
     
    def __call__(self, token_or_tokens):
        """Return the index(es) for given token or list of tokens."""
        if not isinstance(token_or_tokens, list):
            return self.vocab_dict.get(token_or_tokens, self.default_index)
        else:
            return [self.vocab_dict.get(token, self.default_index) 
                    for token in token_or_tokens]
 
    def set_default_index(self, index):
        """Set default index for unknown tokens."""
        self.default_index = index
    def lookup_token(self, index_or_indices):
        """Retrieve token corresponding to given index or list of indices."""
        if not isinstance(index_or_indices, list):
            return self.index_to_token.get(int(index_or_indices),
                                           self.unk_token)
        else:
            return [self.index_to_token.get(int(index), self.unk_token) 
                    for index in index_or_indices]
    def get_tokens(self):
        """Return a list of tokens ordered by their index."""
        tokens = [None] * len(self.index_to_token)
        for index, token in self.index_to_token.items():
            tokens[index] = token
        return tokens
    def __iter__(self):

--- Strana 462 ---
        """Iterate over the tokens in the vocabulary."""
        return iter(self.vocab_dict)
    def __len__(self):
        """Return the number of tokens in the vocabulary."""
        return len(self.vocab_dict)
 
    def __contains__(self, token):
        """Check if a token is in the vocabulary."""
        return token in self.vocab_dict
Listing 7-26: The class to represent a vocabulary
This class is a wrapper around a dictionary that can be used as a
vocabulary. The class allows for a quick lookup of the index
corresponding to a given token (or list of tokens), or the reverse
operation of retrieving the token for a given index (or list of indices).
For example, if you have a vocabulary dictionary like
vocab_dict = {"hello": 0, "world": 1, "<unk>": 2}
you can instantiate a Vocab object using:
vocab = Vocab(vocab_dict)
With this object, you can look up the index of a token: vocab("hello") will
return 0, and vocab("unknown") will return 2 (the index for <unk>). Similarly,
you can retrieve the token corresponding to an index:
vocab.lookup_token(1) will return "world" and vocab.lookup_token(5) will return
"<unk>".
To automatically construct a vocabulary from a collection of
tokenized sentences, you can use the build_vocab_from_iterator() function,
as defined in Listing 7-27.
from collections import Counter
def build_vocab_from_iterator(iterator, specials=None, min_freq=1):
    """Build vocabulary from an iterator over tokenized sentences."""
    token_freq = Counter(token for tokens in iterator for token in tokens)

--- Strana 463 ---
    vocab, index = {}, 0
    if specials: 
        for token in specials: 
            vocab[token] = index
            index += 1
    for token, freq in token_freq.items():
        if freq >= min_freq:
            vocab[token] = index
            index += 1
    return vocab
Listing 7-27: The function to build a vocabulary from an iterator
This function constructs a vocabulary from an iterator over
tokenized sentences. The iterator could be a list of lists, with each inner
list containing the tokens from a particular sentence. The function
counts the frequency of each token via the Counter class from Python’s
collections module, allowing you to filter out infrequent tokens by
specifying a minimum frequency (min_freq). Additionally, the function
supports the inclusion of special tokens such as "<unk>" (unknown) or "
<pad>" (padding). These special tokens can be passed through the specials
argument, and they will be added to the vocabulary before the other
tokens, ensuring that they have reserved indices.
For example, you can use this function to build a vocabulary from a
list of tokenized sentences:
tokenized_sentences = [["this", "is", "an", "example"], 
                       ["another", "example", "sentence"]
                       ["this", "is", "a", "test"]]
vocab_dict = build_vocab_from_iterator(
    tokenized_sentences, specials=["<unk>", "<pad>"], min_freq=1, 
)
Using print(vocab_dict), you should get the following:
{ "<unk>": 0, "<pad>": 1, "this": 2, "is": 3, "an": 4, "example": 5, 
"another": 6, "sentence": 7, "a": 8, "test": 9 }

--- Strana 464 ---
In this example, each unique token that appears at least once is assigned
a unique index, starting with the special tokens "<unk>" and "<pad>" at
indices 0 and 1, respectively. Tokens like "this", "is", and "example" follow
in the order of their appearance.
You can now implement the build_vocab() function to build the
vocabulary, as shown in Listing 7-28.
def build_vocab(filename, lang, lang_position, specials=["<unk>"], min_freq=5):
    """Build vocabulary."""
    vocab_dict = build_vocab_from_iterator(
        corpus_iterator(filename, lang, lang_position), specials, min_freq,
    )
    vocab = Vocab(vocab_dict, unk_token=specials[0]) 
 ➊ vocab.set_default_index(vocab(specials[0]))
    return vocab
Listing 7-28: The function to build a vocabulary from a corpus file
This function uses the build_vocab_from_iterator() function from
Listing 7-27 to construct the vocabulary with the iterator returned by
the corpus_iterator() function from Listing 7-25. The min_freq parameter
sets the minimum frequency a word must have to be included in the
vocabulary, and the specials parameter sets the special tokens to be
included. These special tokens, such as "<unk>" (unknown), "<pad>"
(padding), "<sos>" (start of sentence), and "<eos>" (end of sentence), are
crucial for handling common NLP tasks like padding sequences to a
given length or marking sentence boundaries. Finally, the default index
for the vocabulary is set to the index of the first special token ➊. If no
special tokens are indicated, this will be set by default to the string "
<unk>".
Use this function to create the input and output vocabularies, as
shown in Listing 7-29.
in_lang, out_lang, filename = "eng", "spa", "eng-spa.txt"
specials = ["<pad>", "<sos>", "<eos>", "<unk>"]

--- Strana 465 ---
in_vocab = build_vocab(filename, in_lang, lang_position=0, specials=specials)
out_vocab = build_vocab(filename, out_lang, lang_position=1, specials=specials)
Listing 7-29: Building the vocabularies
This code defines the input language (in_lang) and the output
language (out_lang) as well as the filename containing the list of
translated sentences. The list of special tokens that need to be included
in the vocabularies is then defined: "<pad>" for padding, "<sos>" for start of
a sequence, "<eos>" for end of a sequence, and "<unk>" for unknown words.
Finally, the code builds the vocabularies for the input language (in_vocab)
and for the target language (out_vocab).
Preparing the Datasets and Data Loaders
When using a corpus to train a network for translation tasks, sentences
must be tokenized, validated against a vocabulary, padded to ensure that
all sequences are of a consistent length, and transformed into a format
suitable for machine learning models.
You’ll need the all_words_in_vocab() function in Listing 7-30 to check
whether all words in a sentence are present in a vocabulary.
def all_words_in_vocab(sentence, vocab):
    """Check whether all words in a sentence are present in a vocabulary"""
    return all(word in vocab for word in sentence)
Listing 7-30: The function to check whether all words in a sentence are present in a
vocabulary
Then you’ll need the pad() function in Listing 7-31 to pad a
sequence of tokens to a predefined length.
def pad(tokens, max_length=10):
    """Pad sequence of tokens."""
    padding_length = max_length - len(tokens)
    return ["<sos>"] + tokens + ["<eos>"] + ["<pad>"] * padding_length
Listing 7-31: The function to pad a sequence of tokens
This function takes a sequence of words, adds the special tokens for
the start of the sentence ("<sos>") and for the end of the sentence ("

--- Strana 466 ---
<eos>"), and pads the sentence to a designated maximum length with a
padding token ("<pad>"). In calculating the length of the token sequence,
the "<sos>" and "<eos>" special tokens are ignored.
Finally, you’ll need the process() function in Listing 7-32 to process
the entire corpus file.
import numpy as np
def process(filename, in_lang, out_lang, in_vocab, out_vocab, max_length=10):
    """Process language corpus."""
    in_sequences, out_sequences = [], []
    with open(filename, "r", encoding="utf-8") as file:
        for line in file:
         ➊ sentences = line.strip().split("\t")
            in_tokens = tokenize(unicodedata.normalize("NFC", sentences[0]),
                                 in_lang)
            out_tokens = tokenize(unicodedata.normalize("NFC", sentences[1]), 
                                  out_lang)
     
            if (all_words_in_vocab(in_tokens, in_vocab)
                and len(in_tokens) <= max_length
                and all_words_in_vocab(out_tokens, out_vocab)
                and len(out_tokens) <= max_length):
             
                padded_in_tokens = pad(in_tokens)
                in_sequence = in_vocab(padded_in_tokens)
                in_sequences.append(in_sequence)
             
                padded_out_tokens = pad(out_tokens)
                out_sequence = out_vocab(padded_out_tokens)
                out_sequences.append(out_sequence)
    return np.array(in_sequences), np.array(out_sequences)
Listing 7-32: The function to process the language corpus
This function reads each line and splits it into input and output
sentences based on the tab delimiter ➊. Then the function normalizes
the sentences to NFC and tokenizes them (in_tokens and out_tokens). If

--- Strana 467 ---
in_tokens and out_tokens meet a set of criteria (all words are in the
respective vocabularies and don’t exceed the maximum length), the
function pads them, transforms them into numerical sequences
according to the word indices defined in the vocabularies, and appends
them to the in_sequences and out_sequences lists. Finally, the function
converts the output lists into NumPy arrays and returns them.
You can now use the process() function to preprocess the text corpus
and the preprocessed data as a source to build the data loaders, as shown
in Listing 7-33.
import deeplay as dl
import deeptrack as dt
import torch
in_sequences, out_sequences = \
    process(filename, in_lang, out_lang, in_vocab, out_vocab)
sources = dt.sources.Source(inputs=in_sequences, targets=out_sequences)
train_sources, test_sources = dt.sources.random_split(sources, [0.85, 0.15])
inputs_pip = dt.Value(sources.inputs) >> dt.pytorch.ToTensor(dtype=torch.int)
outputs_pip = dt.Value(sources.targets) >> dt.pytorch.ToTensor(dtype=torch.int)
train_dataset = \
    dt.pytorch.Dataset(inputs_pip & outputs_pip, inputs=train_sources)
test_dataset = \
    dt.pytorch.Dataset(inputs_pip & outputs_pip, inputs=test_sources)
train_loader = dl.DataLoader(train_dataset, batch_size=256, shuffle=True)
test_loader = dl.DataLoader(test_dataset, batch_size=256, shuffle=False)
Listing 7-33: Building the datasets and data loaders
This code begins by processing the corpus file with the process()
function. Then the code creates the sources object to house both the
input and output sequences. The sources object is split into training and
test sets according to the proportions 85 percent and 15 percent,
respectively. Next, DeepTrack2 pipelines are created for both inputs
(inputs_pip) and targets (outputs_pip) to transform the data into PyTorch

--- Strana 468 ---
tensors. The train_dataset and test_dataset objects are created to associate
inputs and targets with their respective sources. Finally, the code creates
the train_loader and test_loader data loaders to handle data batching.
Defining the Sequence-to-Sequence Application
A typical seq2seq model consists of two main components: an encoder
and a decoder. The encoder focuses on reading and understanding the
input sequence, such as a sentence in English, and compressing it into a
rich context vector. This context vector is like a mental snapshot of what
the input sequence represents—for example, a summary that captures
the meaning of the entire input sentence. The decoder then takes this
context vector and transforms it into a meaningful output sequence,
such as the translation into a Spanish sentence.
Implementing the Encoder
The encoder reads the input sequence representing a sentence and
converts each index representing a word into an embedding, which is a
vector representation that captures the semantic meaning of the word
that the neural network can more easily process. Each word’s
embedding is then fed into a recurrent neural network. As each word is
processed, the recurrent neural network updates its internal state
contained in its context vector. After processing the last word, the
context vector provides a compact representation of the meaning of the
entire input sentence.
Listing 7-34 shows the Seq2SeqEncoder class that implements this
encoder logic.
class Seq2SeqEncoder(dl.DeeplayModule):
    """Sequence-to-sequence encoder."""
    def __init__(self, vocab_size, in_feats=300, hidden_feats=128,
                 hidden_layers=1, dropout=0.0):
        """Initialize sequence-to-sequence encoder."""
        super().__init__()
        self.hidden_feats, self.hidden_layers = hidden_feats, hidden_layers

--- Strana 469 ---
     
     ➊ self.embedding = dl.Layer(torch.nn.Embedding, vocab_size, in_feats)
     ➋ self.rnn = dl.Layer(torch.nn.GRU, input_size=in_feats, 
                            hidden_size=hidden_feats, num_layers=hidden_layers, 
                            dropout=(0 if hidden_layers == 1 else dropout),
                            bidirectional=True, batch_first=True)
    def forward(self, in_sequences, contexts=None):
        """Calculate the encoded sequences and contexts."""
        in_embeddings = self.embedding(in_sequences)
     ➌ encoded_sequences, contexts = self.rnn(in_embeddings, contexts)
     ➍ encoded_sequences = (encoded_sequences[:, :, :self.hidden_feats]
                             + encoded_sequences[:, :, self.hidden_feats:])
     ➎ contexts = contexts[:self.hidden_layers]
        return encoded_sequences, contexts
Listing 7-34: The class implementing the encoder network
The encoder has two components: the embedding layer ➊ and the
recurrent neural network layer ➋. The embedding layer converts token
indices into vectors of a fixed size (in_feats), which are the embeddings
corresponding to the words in the input vocabulary of size vocab_size.
The recurrent neural network layer processes the sequence of embeddings
and provides two outputs ➌: encoded_sequences and contexts. Both outputs
correspond to hidden states of the recurrent neural network:
encoded_sequences contains the hidden state of the last layer for every
token, whereas contexts contains the hidden state of the last step for
every layer.
The forward() method defines how the input sequences are
transformed as they pass through the network layers. It takes a batch of
input sequences and context vectors (set to None by default). The input
sequences first pass through the embedding layer. The recurrent neural
network layer then processes the embedded sequences, returning some
encoded sequences (encoded_sequences, which won’t be used by the
decoder) and new context vectors (which will serve to initialize the
decoder’s context vectors).

--- Strana 470 ---
The recurrent neural network of the encoder is set to be
bidirectional via bidirectional=True ➋ because this allows the network to
capture both past and future context within the input sequence,
providing a more comprehensive understanding of each word’s meaning
in relation to the entire sentence. Therefore, the code of the forward
pass sums the encoded sequences from both directions to combine the
forward and backward contextual information ➍, and discards the
context vectors from the backward pass, retaining only the context
vectors from the forward pass (which corresponds to the first half of the
bidirectional context vector) ➎.
Implementing the Decoder
The decoder’s role is to generate an output sequence from the encoded
data. The decoder translates the context vector obtained by the encoder
into a new sequence, thus translating the input sentence into the target
language. Listing 7-35 shows the Seq2SeqDecoder class that implements the
decoder network by taking the context vector from the encoder and
generating the target sequence word by word.
class Seq2SeqDecoder(dl.DeeplayModule):
    """Sequence-to-sequence decoder."""
    def __init__(self, vocab_size, in_feats=300, hidden_feats=128, 
                 hidden_layers=1, dropout=0.0):
        """Initialize sequence-to-sequence decoder."""
        super().__init__()
        self.embedding = dl.Layer(torch.nn.Embedding, vocab_size, in_feats)
        self.rnn = dl.Layer(torch.nn.GRU, input_size=in_feats,
                            hidden_size=hidden_feats, num_layers=hidden_layers,
                         ➊ bidirectional=False, batch_first=True,
                            dropout=(0 if hidden_layers == 1 else dropout))
        self.dense = dl.Layer(torch.nn.Linear, hidden_feats, vocab_size)
        self.softmax = dl.Layer(torch.nn.Softmax, dim=-1)
    def forward(self, decoder_in_values, contexts):

--- Strana 471 ---
        """Calculate the decoder outputs and contexts."""
        out_embeddings = self.embedding(decoder_in_values)
        decoder_outputs, contexts = self.rnn(out_embeddings, contexts)
        decoder_outputs = self.dense(decoder_outputs)
        decoder_outputs = self.softmax(decoder_outputs)
        return decoder_outputs, contexts
Listing 7-35: The class implementing the decoder network
The decoder has a similar structure as the encoder. However, the
decoder is typically unidirectional ➊ because it generates the output
sequence in the forward direction, building on the values of the output
sequence it’s generating step-by-step.
The forward() method of the decoder is more complex than that of
the encoder because it needs to generate coherent and contextually
appropriate outputs. The code operates on decoder_in_values, a tensor
containing the index values of a single word for each sequence of the
batch, and transforms them into embeddings. Next, the recurrent neural
network processes out_embeddings along with the previous contexts to
produce the decoder outputs and new context vectors. These outputs
are transformed by the dense layer and converted into probability
distributions across the vocabulary by the softmax function. Finally,
forward() returns the softmax probabilities (which can be interpreted as
the probabilistic predictions of the next tokens’ indexes in the decoder
output sequences) and the new context vectors.
Instead of directly predicting the next value of the output sequence,
the decoder generates a probability distribution over the entire
vocabulary. Then it selects the most likely word index from this
distribution and adds the corresponding word to the output sequence.
This process is repeated for each subsequent word index in the output
sequence until the full output is generated, enabling the model to
produce a coherent translation.
Combining the Encoder and the Decoder
Now that you’ve implemented both the encoder and the decoder, you
can combine them into the full seq2seq model to translate text

--- Strana 472 ---
sequences from one language to another. Figure 7-8 shows the overall
architecture as well as the data flow.
Figure 7-8: The seq2seq architecture for translation
Listing 7-36 shows the resulting model.
class Seq2SeqModel(dl.DeeplayModule):
    """Sequence-to-sequence model."""
    def __init__(self, in_vocab_size=None, out_vocab_size=None, embed_dim=300, 
                 hidden_feats=128, hidden_layers=1, dropout=0.0):
        """Initialize the sequence-to-sequence model."""
        super().__init__()
        self.in_vocab_size, self.out_vocab_size = in_vocab_size, out_vocab_size
     
        self.encoder = Seq2SeqEncoder(in_vocab_size, embed_dim, hidden_feats, 
                                      hidden_layers, dropout)
        self.decoder = Seq2SeqDecoder(out_vocab_size, embed_dim, hidden_feats, 
                                      hidden_layers, dropout)
    def forward(self, batch):

--- Strana 473 ---
        """Calculate the decoder output vectors for the input sequences."""
        in_sequences, out_sequences = batch
        num_sequences, sequence_length = in_sequences.size()
     ➊ device = next(self.encoder.parameters()).device
     
     ➋ _, contexts = self.encoder(in_sequences)
     
        decoder_outputs_vec = torch.zeros(num_sequences, sequence_length,
                                          self.out_vocab_size).to(device)
     ➌ decoder_in_values = torch.full(size=(num_sequences, 1), 
                                       fill_value=1, device=device)  # <sos>
        for t in range(sequence_length):
            decoder_outputs, contexts = \
                self.decoder(decoder_in_values, contexts)
         ➍ decoder_outputs_vec[:, t, :] = decoder_outputs.squeeze(1)
         ➎ _, top_decoder_outputs = decoder_outputs.topk(1)
         ➏ decoder_in_values = \
                top_decoder_outputs.squeeze(-1).detach().to(device)
     
        return decoder_outputs_vec
Listing 7-36: The class implementing the full seq2seq model
This class combines the encoder and the decoder to create the
complete seq2seq model. The forward() method first determines the
computational device used by the model ➊. Here,
self.encoder.parameters() retrieves the parameters (weights and biases) of
the encoder, and next() extracts the first parameter. The device attribute
then identifies the device where this parameter is stored. This device
will be used to ensure that all tensors and operations are placed on the
appropriate device, whether it’s a CPU or GPU.
Then the forward() method passes the input sequences through the
encoder. The encoder generates a set of encoded outputs (which will be
ignored by the decoder and therefore are not returned) and context
vectors that capture the contextual information of the input sequences
➋.

--- Strana 474 ---
Next, it’s the turn of the decoder, which constructs the decoder
outputs word by word in a for loop that saves the decoder outputs for
each iteration in the decoder_outputs_vec PyTorch tensor ➍. Each step’s
output depends on the preceding steps’ outputs, making the process
inherently sequential and dependent on prior results. In its first
iteration, the decoder receives initial input sequences initialized to the
indexes corresponding to the "<sos>" special token ➌ and the context
vectors generated by the encoder ➋. In the subsequent interactions, the
code selects the most-likely-word index from the probability
distribution returned by the decoder in the preceding iteration ➎. Then
it uses this word index to define the input to pass to the decoder ➏,
while using the context vectors generated by the decoder in the
preceding iteration. In this way, the decoder generates the next word
indices step-by-step.
You can improve the training of this model by using teacher forcing.
In this training strategy, the actual target-word indices (corresponding
to the correct translations from the ground truth) are used as the next
input to the decoder with a certain probability, while otherwise the
model’s prediction from the preceding time step is used. This training
technique is implemented in Listing 7-37.
class Seq2SeqModel(dl.DeeplayModule):
    """Sequence-to-sequence model.""
    def __init__(..., teacher_prob=1.0):
        --snip--
        self.teacher_prob = teacher_prob
    def forward(self, batch):
        --snip--
        for t in range(sequence_length):
            --snip--
            if (np.random.rand() < self.teacher_prob 
                and t < sequence_length - 1):  # Teacher forcing
                decoder_in_values = \

--- Strana 475 ---
                    out_sequences[:, t + 1].unsqueeze(-1).to(device)
            else:  # Model prediction
                _, top_decoder_outputs = decoder_outputs.topk(1)
                decoder_in_values = \
                    top_decoder_outputs.squeeze(-1).detach().to(device)
     
        return decoder_outputs_vec
Listing 7-37: The class implementing the full seq2seq model with teacher forcing (by
modifying Listing 7-36)
Now the actual target-word indices are used as the next input to the
decoder with probability teacher_prob, while otherwise the model’s
prediction from the preceding time step is used. Setting teacher_prob to
different levels has various effects: A high probability (closer to 1) helps
the model learn more quickly and accurately when the correct
sequences are provided but may cause the model to struggle during
inference without the ground truth; a low probability (closer to 0)
makes the model more robust to errors and improves performance
during inference, though it may slow training and make convergence
less stable. Finding the right balance is key to effective training and
often requires experimentation. When training recurrent neural
networks, this strategy speeds up training and often leads to more stable
convergence. However, this approach can also lead to the model
becoming overly reliant on the ground truth during training and not
learning to recover from its own mistakes—a phenomenon called
exposure bias.
To evaluate the model on unseen data, the Seq2SeqModel class needs an
evaluate() method that uses a similar approach to the forward() method
but without teacher forcing. In fact, during evaluation, you need to
perform the inference without access to the ground truth for the next
value in the sequence of word indices. You can implement this method
with Listing 7-38.
class Seq2SeqModel(dl.DeeplayModule):
    """Sequence-to-sequence model with evaluation method."""
    --snip--

--- Strana 476 ---
    def evaluate(self, in_sequences):
        """Evaluate model."""
        num_sequences, sequence_length = in_sequences.size()
        device = next(self.encoder.parameters()).device
        with torch.no_grad():
            _, contexts = self.encoder(in_sequences)
     
        pred_sequences = torch.zeros(num_sequences, sequence_length).to(device)
        decoder_in_values = torch.full(size=(num_sequences, 1), 
                                       fill_value=1, device=device)  # <sos>
        for t in range(sequence_length):
            with torch.no_grad():
                decoder_outputs, contexts = \
                    self.decoder(decoder_in_values, contexts)
            _, top_decoder_outputs = decoder_outputs.topk(1)
            pred_sequences[:, t] = top_decoder_outputs.squeeze()
            decoder_in_values = top_decoder_outputs.squeeze(-1).detach()
         
        return pred_sequences
Listing 7-38: The class implementing the full seq2seq model with an evaluation method (by
modifying Listing 7-37)
This method is similar to forward(). The main differences are that
during evaluation, teacher forcing is not applied, meaning the decoder
must rely on its own predictions from the previous time steps to
generate the next token. Additionally, gradient computations are
disabled via torch.no_grad() to save memory and speed up the evaluation
process. Instead of using the ground truth to guide the sequence
generation, the decoder’s predicted output at each step is fed back as
input for the next step, allowing the model to generate the entire output
sequence independently. The decoder also returns pred_sequences, which
contains the final predicted sequence of token indices, instead of
decoder_outputs_vec, which holds the intermediate softmax probabilities
over the vocabulary. This allows the evaluation method to directly

--- Strana 477 ---
provide the predicted output sequence without the need for further
processing.
Defining the Loss Function
For the loss function, you’ll use the negative log-likelihood loss, which
measures the performance of a classification model whose output is a
probability value ranging from 0 to 1. Importantly, values corresponding
to padding tokens should be ignored for the loss function calculation so
that the model’s training process focuses solely on the meaningful part
of the sequence. The maskedNLL() function in Listing 7-39 is an efficient
way to calculate a masked version of the negative log-likelihood for
batched data.
def maskedNLL(decoder_outputs, out_sequences, padding=0):
    """Calculate the masked negative log-likelihood (NLL) loss."""
    flat_pred_sequences = decoder_outputs.view(-1, decoder_outputs.shape[-1])
    flat_target_sequences = out_sequences.view(-1, 1)
    pred_probs = torch.gather(flat_pred_sequences, 1, flat_target_sequences)
    nll = - torch.log(pred_probs)
    mask = out_sequences != padding
    masked_nll = nll.masked_select(mask.view(-1, 1))
 
    return masked_nll.mean()  # Loss
Listing 7-39: The function to calculate the masked negative log-likelihood loss
This function measures how well the model’s predicted probability
distributions (contained in decoder_outputs, representing softmax
probability distributions for each token in the vocabulary at every
position in the sequence) match the actual target sequences (stored in
out_sequences, representing the integer indices of the actual tokens). First,
the function flattens both the predicted and target sequences into 2D
arrays and uses torch.gather() to extract the predicted probabilities for
the correct target tokens. The function calculates the negative log of
these probabilities as the loss. Then the function applies a mask to

--- Strana 478 ---
ignore the padding tokens, ensuring that the loss focuses on only
meaningful parts of the sequences. Finally, the function returns the
mean loss over all non-padded tokens.
Implementing the Sequence-to-Sequence Application
Finally, you’re ready to define the Seq2Seq() class by extending the
Application class of Deeplay, as shown in Listing 7-40.
class Seq2Seq(dl.Application):
    """Application for the sequence-to-sequence model."""
    def __init__(self, in_vocab, out_vocab, teacher_prob=1.0):
        """Initialize the application."""
        super().__init__(loss=maskedNLL, optimizer=dl.Adam(lr=1e-3))
     ➊ self.model = Seq2SeqModel(in_vocab_size=len(in_vocab),
                                  out_vocab_size=len(out_vocab),
                                  teacher_prob=teacher_prob)
    def train_preprocess(self, batch):
        """Adjust the target sequence by shifting it one position backward."""
        in_sequences, out_sequences = batch
        shifted_out_sequences = \
            torch.cat((out_sequences[:, 1:], out_sequences[:, -1:]), dim=1)
        return (in_sequences, out_sequences), shifted_out_sequences
 
    def forward(self, batch):
        """Perform forward pass."""
        return self.model(batch)
Listing 7-40: The class implementing the application to train the seq2seq model
This class creates a default model from the Seq2SeqModel class from
Listing 7-36 ➊. The class uses both the maskedNLL() function defined in
Listing 7-39 as the loss function and the Adam optimizer.
The application implements train_preprocess(). This preprocessing
method adjusts the target sequence to calculate the loss by shifting the
sequence one position backward and repeating the last element, which is
a padding or an end-of-sequence element. This adjustment is crucial for

--- Strana 479 ---
accurately computing the loss function, as the predicted sequences lack
the initial start-of-sequence token. In fact, during training, you need to
train the model to predict the next token in the sequence, excluding the
initial token that typically serves as a signal for the start of a new
sequence. Shifting the target sequence ensures that the model is
evaluated correctly against the ground-truth tokens for each step in the
sequence.
Loading Pretrained Embeddings
Embeddings represent words (and their semantic and syntactic
properties) in a dense, continuous vector space. Although training
embeddings within a machine translation model has benefits, using
fixed, pretrained embeddings can be more efficient and effective.
Here, you’ll take advantage of the extensive pretrained embeddings
in the Global Vectors for Word Representation (GloVe) model, which is
widely used to derive dense word embeddings from a text corpus. This
approach ensures that the translation model benefits from a deep,
nuanced understanding of language semantics and syntax from the start,
without having to learn it from the data.
Start by downloading the GloVe embeddings with Listing 7-41.
import os
from torchvision.datasets.utils import download_url, extract_archive
glove_folder = ".glove_cache"
if not os.path.exists(glove_folder):
    os.makedirs(glove_folder, exist_ok=True)
    url = "https://nlp.stanford.edu/data/glove.42B.300d.zip"
    download_url(url, glove_folder)
    zip_filepath = os.path.join(glove_folder, "glove.42B.300d.zip")
    extract_archive(zip_filepath, glove_folder)
    os.remove(zip_filepath)
Listing 7-41: Downloading the GloVe embeddings
This code downloads and extracts the GloVe embeddings into a
directory named .glove_cache in the current working directory. (If this

--- Strana 480 ---
directory doesn’t exist, the script creates it.) The GloVe embeddings are
downloaded as a ZIP file from the Stanford Natural Language
Processing Group website, and after extraction, the script removes the
ZIP file to save disk space.
Now implement the load_glove_embeddings() function in Listing 7-42.
def load_glove_embeddings(glove_file):
    """Load GloVe embeddings."""
    glove_embeddings = {}
    with open(glove_file, "r", encoding="utf-8") as file:
        for line in file:
            values = line.split()
            word = values[0]
            glove_embeddings[word] = np.round(
                np.asarray(values[1:], dtype="float32"), decimals=6,
            )
    return glove_embeddings
Listing 7-42: The function to load the GloVe embeddings
This function loads the GloVe embeddings from the specified file.
Next, implement the get_glove_embeddings() function in Listing 7-43.
def get_glove_embeddings(vocab, glove_embeddings, embed_dim):
    """Get GloVe embeddings for a vocabulary."""
    embeddings = torch.zeros((len(vocab), embed_dim), dtype=torch.float32)
    for i, token in enumerate(vocab):
        embedding = glove_embeddings.get(token)
        if embedding is None:
            embedding = glove_embeddings.get(token.lower())
        if embedding is not None:
            embeddings[i] = torch.tensor(embedding, dtype=torch.float32)
    return embeddings
Listing 7-43: The function to get GloVe embeddings for a vocabulary
This function constructs an embeddings matrix for the given
vocabulary by mapping each token to its corresponding GloVe
embedding. For each token in the vocabulary, the function attempts to

--- Strana 481 ---
retrieve its embedding from the glove_embeddings dictionary. If the exact
token is not found, the function tries the lowercase version. If an
embedding is found, the function replaces the corresponding row in the
embeddings matrix with the GloVe embedding. Tokens without a
matching GloVe embedding remain as zero vectors in the matrix. The
resulting embeddings matrix ensures that each token’s index in the
vocabulary aligns with the same index in the embeddings matrix.
You can finally load the GloVe embeddings with Listing 7-44.
   glove_file = os.path.join(glove_folder, "glove.42B.300d.txt")
   glove_embeddings, glove_dim = load_glove_embeddings(glove_file), 300
   embeddings_in = get_glove_embeddings(in_vocab.get_tokens(), 
                                        glove_embeddings, glove_dim)
   embeddings_out = get_glove_embeddings(out_vocab.get_tokens(), 
                                         glove_embeddings, glove_dim)
   num_specials = len(specials)
➊ embeddings_in[1:num_specials] = torch.rand(num_specials - 1, glove_dim) * 0.01
➋ embeddings_out[1:num_specials] = torch.rand(num_specials - 1, glove_dim) * 
0.01
Listing 7-44: Loading the pretrained embeddings
This code loads the pretrained GloVe embeddings and integrates
them with the model’s vocabularies. Using the load_glove_embeddings()
function from Listing 7-42, the code loads the GloVe embeddings with
300 dimensions (glove_dim) into a dictionary (glove_embeddings). Then the
get_glove_embeddings() function from Listing 7-43 is used to create
embedding matrices for the input and output vocabularies by mapping
each token to its corresponding GloVe embedding.
The special tokens defined in Listing 7-28 don’t have predefined
GloVe embeddings, so they are assigned 0 by default. You’ll keep this
initialization for padding tokens (corresponding to the index 0). Since
these padding tokens don’t carry semantic information, assigning the
zero vector ensures that they don’t influence the model’s outputs or
gradients during training. However, the non-padding special tokens

--- Strana 482 ---
serve specific semantic roles. Thus, the code assigns small random
numbers to their embeddings ➊ ➋ so that the model learns how to
handle them during training.
Training the Sequence-to-Sequence Application
Now you’re ready to create the seq2seq model as shown in Listing 7-45.
   seq2seq = Seq2Seq(in_vocab=in_vocab, out_vocab=out_vocab, teacher_prob=0.85)
   seq2seq = seq2seq.create()
➊ seq2seq.model.encoder.embedding.weight.data = embeddings_in
➋ seq2seq.model.encoder.embedding.weight.requires_grad = False
➌ seq2seq.model.decoder.embedding.weight.data = embeddings_out
➍ seq2seq.model.decoder.embedding.weight.requires_grad = False
Listing 7-45: Creating the seq2seq model
All the model parameters are set to their default values except the
teacher-forcing probability, which is set to 0.85. This rather high value is
useful in early training when the model’s predictions are likely
inaccurate. The value ensures that the model sees a lot of correct
sequences and learns the basic structure of the target language. During
later training, you could gradually decrease the teacher-forcing
probability to help the model transition from learning to reproduce
correct sequences to generating them autonomously.
The GloVe embeddings are integrated into the model by being
assigned to the embedding layer of the encoder ➊ and decoder ➌.
Gradient computations are disabled to freeze these weights ➋ ➍,
preventing them from being distorted by gradients derived from
potentially much smaller task-specific datasets, and simplifying the
training process.
Train this model as follows:
trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=25, accelerator="auto")
trainer.fit(seq2seq, train_loader)

--- Strana 483 ---
This configures a training environment and executes the training
process. You can then visualize the training history with
trainer.history.plot(). During the 25 epochs, the loss should decay from
about 9 to about 1.2.
Testing the Model Performance
Before quantifying the model’s performance over the test set, let’s test
its capabilities by translating some sentences.
First, you need to define the unprocess() function in Listing 7-46,
which converts the processed sequences into readable text.
def unprocess(sequences, vocab, specials):
    """Convert numeric sequences to sentences."""
    sentences = []
    for sequence in sequences:
     ➊ idxs = sequence[sequence > len(specials) - 1]
        words = [vocab.lookup_token(idx) for idx in idxs]
        sentences.append(" ".join(words))
    return sentences
Listing 7-46: The function to convert numerical sequences into their corresponding text
The inputs for this function are the sequences list of lists and the vocab
vocabulary object. In sequences, each inner list contains integer indices
corresponding to words as per the given vocabulary. The vocab object
returns the word associated with a given index through the lookup_token()
method.
The function filters indices that are less than or equal to the number
of special tokens minus one, to exclude the special tokens "<pad>", "<sos>",
and "<eos>" ➊, because these special tokens are used to manage padding,
the start of a sequence, and the end of a sequence, respectively, and thus
are not part of the actual sentence content (instead, the special token "
<unk>" will be kept in the sentence as it can be considered meaningful).
The output provides a list of reconstructed sentences.
Now implement the translate() function in Listing 7-47 to apply the
trained model to the translation of sentences provided by the user.

--- Strana 484 ---
def translate(in_sentence, model, in_lang, in_vocab, out_vocab, specials):
    """Translate a sentence."""
    in_sentence = unicodedata.normalize("NFC", in_sentence)
    in_tokens = pad(tokenize(in_sentence, in_lang))
    in_sequence = (torch.tensor(in_vocab(in_tokens), dtype=torch.int)
                   .unsqueeze(0).to(next(model.parameters()).device))
    pred_sequence = model.evaluate(in_sequence)
    pred_sentence = unprocess(pred_sequence, out_vocab, specials)
    print(f"Predicted Translation: {pred_sentence[0]}\n")
Listing 7-47: The function to translate user-defined sentences
This function begins by normalizing to NFC, tokenizing, and
padding the input text via the unicodedata.normalize(), tokenize(), and pad()
functions, respectively. The resulting token sequence is then converted
into a numerical sequence using the input vocabulary and transformed
into a PyTorch tensor. This tensor is unsqueezed to add a batch
dimension, which is necessary because PyTorch models expect input
data to include a batch dimension, even if the batch size is 1. The tensor
is then moved to the same device as the model’s parameters. The
model’s evaluate() method is called to generate the predicted sequence,
which is then converted back into readable text via the unprocess()
function. Finally, the code prints out the translated text.
Now let’s try using translate() on a simple sentence:
in_sentence = "I bought a book."
translate(in_sentence, seq2seq.model, in_lang, in_vocab, out_vocab, specials)
This should generate a faithful translation:
Predicted Translation: Compré un libro .
Note the space before the period; this occurs because the tokenizer
treats punctuation as a separate token, resulting in a space when the
tokens are rejoined into a sentence.
Try another simple sentence:
in_sentence = "This book is very interesting."

--- Strana 485 ---
translate(in_sentence, seq2seq.model, in_lang, in_vocab, out_vocab, specials)
This should also produce a correct translation:
Predicted Translation: Este libro es muy interesante .
However, on more difficult translations, the model runs into
problems. For example, the following combines the previous two
sentences into a single sentence with a main clause and a relative clause:
in_sentence = "The book that I bought is very interesting."
translate(in_sentence, seq2seq.model, in_lang, in_vocab, out_vocab, specials)
This results in the following translation (in our run of the code):
Predicted Translation: El libro es muy interesante que compré .
The model struggles to handle the more complex sentence structure,
showing its limitations.
In Chapter 8, you’ll learn how to improve the translation by using
an attention mechanism to provide more contextual information to the
decoder.
Evaluating the Model with the BLEU Score
To develop and refine models, it’s crucial to accurately assess the quality
of the translated text. One of the most prominent metrics used to do
this is the BiLingual Evaluation Understudy (BLEU) score, designed to
quantify a machine translation’s closeness to human translations.
The BLEU score calculates the match of n-grams between the
machine translation and the reference translations. An n-gram is a
contiguous sequence of n items (such as words or characters) from a
given sample of text. The BLEU score counts the number of n-grams
that are in both the machine translation and in any of the reference
translations, then divides this number by the total number of n-grams in
the machine translation. The BLEU score considers n-grams with
lengths up to 4 because this length typically encompasses the range
from single words to short phrases, capturing both lexical choice and
local coherence of translations.

--- Strana 486 ---
The BLEU score has been instrumental in the development of
machine translation systems thanks to its simplicity and effectiveness in
comparing translated texts across languages. However, the BLEU score
is not without its limitations. It focuses on the surface form of the
language and may not fully capture the semantic accuracy or the stylistic
appropriateness of the translation. Its effectiveness is also dependent on
the quality of the references.
The script in Listing 7-48 evaluates the model on the test dataset,
calculating the BLEU score for the model’s translations, and printing
examples of translations.
from torchmetrics.text import BLEUScore
bleu_score = BLEUScore()
device = next(seq2seq.model.parameters()).device
for batch_index, (in_sequences, out_sequences) in enumerate(test_loader):
    in_sentences = unprocess(in_sequences.to(device), in_vocab, specials)
    pred_sequences = seq2seq.model.evaluate(in_sequences.to(device))
    pred_sentences = unprocess(pred_sequences, out_vocab, specials)
    out_sentences = unprocess(out_sequences.to(device), out_vocab, specials)
 
 ➊ bleu_score.update(pred_sentences, [[s] for s in out_sentences])
    print(f"Input Sentence: {in_sentences[0]}\n" 
          + f"Predicted Translation: {pred_sentences[0]}\n"
          + f"Actual Translation: {out_sentences[0]}\n")
final_bleu = bleu_score.compute()
print(f"Validation BLEU Score: {final_bleu:.3f}")
Listing 7-48: Testing the model and calculating the BLEU score
This code initializes an instance of the BLEUScore class. It gets the
device on which the model is running and then loops through each
batch in the test loader, moving the input and target data to the same
device as the model and using the model’s evaluate() method to get
predictions.

--- Strana 487 ---
The unprocess() function is used to convert indices to words, using
the proper vocabulary for inputs, predictions, and targets. The code
reformats the targets into a list-of-lists format, which is required by the
BLEU score metric for proper evaluation, and it accumulates the results
for BLEU score calculation over all the batches ➊.
For each batch, the code displays a translation example, printing the
original input sentence, the model’s predicted translation, and the actual
human translation for comparison. After processing all batches, the code
calculates and prints the final BLEU score for the entire test dataset.
For this example, you should get a BLEU score of around 0.26. In
Project 8A, you’ll learn how to improve this score.
NOTE
Code Example 7-A, “Translating with a Recurrent Neural Network,”
is 
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch07_RNN folder and then ec07_A_nlp_rnn. The
nlp_rnn.ipynb notebook provides a complete code example that uses
recurrent neural networks to implement a seq2seq model for machine
translation.
Summary
In this chapter, you learned how to use recurrent neural networks in
time-series analysis, focusing on their unique ability to handle
sequential data and capture temporal dependencies.
You started with the comb filter example, showcasing how recurrent
neural networks use feedback loops and memory to process sequences.
You then used the PyTorch and Deeplay frameworks to analyze the Jena
Climate dataset, and you used recurrent neural networks to predict
future temperatures based on past weather data. Beginning with a
straightforward implementation of a basic recurrent neural network,
you went on to refine the model by stacking layers, including dropout

--- Strana 488 ---
techniques to combat overfitting, and incorporating more-advanced
structures like GRUs and LSTM networks.
In the project, you applied recurrent neural networks to implement
a seq2seq model for machine translation in Deeplay. This project gave
you a firsthand look at natural language processing, deepening your
understanding of neural network architectures specifically designed for
handling sequential data. You saw how encoder-decoder models exploit
the context of entire sentences rather than individual words, to produce
more-coherent and contextually appropriate translations.
In the next chapter, you’ll explore transformers, a powerful
alternative to recurrent neural networks that can process entire
sequences in parallel and capture long-range dependencies more
effectively.
Seminal Works and Further Reading
The application of recurrent neural networks to temporal sequences
began in 1990 with Jeffrey L. Elman’s “Finding Structure in Time,”
published in Cognitive Science (volume 14, pages 179–211). This work
demonstrated how recurrent neural networks can effectively model time
dependencies, making it a foundational reference for the use of
recurrent neural networks in processing sequential data.
Building on the early advancements in recurrent neural networks,
Sepp Hochreiter and Jürgen Schmidhuber introduced the LSTM
network in “Long Short-Term Memory,” published in 1997 in Neural
Computation (volume 9, pages 1,735–1,780). LSTMs were designed to
overcome the vanishing gradient problem commonly encountered in
training standard recurrent neural networks.
The exploration of sequence modeling took another step forward
with the introduction of the recurrent encoder-decoder framework in
2014 by Kyunghyun Cho et al. in “Learning Phrase Representations
Using RNN Encoder-Decoder for Statistical Machine Translation,”
published on arXiv (article number 1406.1078). This framework laid the
groundwork for subsequent advancements, particularly in models
incorporating attention mechanisms.

--- Strana 489 ---
Ilya Sutskever et al. expanded the use of recurrent neural networks
to sequence-to-sequence tasks in “Sequence to Sequence Learning with
Neural Networks,” published in 2014 in Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems (NeurIPS, volume 27). This work established the
seq2seq framework, which mapped input sequences to output sequences
in various domains, such as translating sentences between languages,
and became a key architecture for many NLP tasks.
CHALLENGE PROJECTS
7-1: Predict stock market prices  Use a recurrent neural
network to predict the future prices of a particular stock based on
its historical price data. You can start by using the daily closing
prices from the Yahoo! Finance website’s historical market data
and then attempt to include more features such as opening prices,
highs and lows, and volume traded.
7-2: Predict disease spread  Use a recurrent neural network to
predict the future spread of a disease (for example, COVID-19)
based on past infection rates and possibly other features like
mobility data or vaccination rates. Use the COVID-19 Data
Repository by the Center for Systems Science and Engineering
(CSSE) at Johns Hopkins University for infection rates and
additional data sources for mobility and vaccination rates.
7-3: Analyze sentiment of movie reviews  Implement a
recurrent neural network to classify the sentiment of movie
reviews as positive or negative. Using the Large Movie Reviews
Dataset provided by Stanford University, preprocess the textual
data into a suitable format and then train your recurrent neural
network to learn the sentiment expressed in the reviews.
7-4: Music genre classification  Develop a recurrent neural
network that classifies short clips of music into genres. Use the
GTZAN Music Genre Classification dataset, which consists of

--- Strana 490 ---
audio files categorized by genre. This task will require
preprocessing audio data into a suitable format for recurrent
neural network training.
7-5: Create a chatbot  Build a chatbot that is based on a
recurrent neural network and is capable of engaging in basic
conversations. Use the Cornell Movie-Dialogs Corpus to train
your chatbot. This dataset contains a large collection of movie
character dialogue that can be used to teach your model how to
handle a conversation and generate appropriate responses. Focus
on preprocessing the text data, designing a suitable recurrent
neural network architecture, and implementing a mechanism to
handle context and conversation flow.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 491 ---
8
PROCESSING LANGUAGE AND
CLASSIFYING IMAGES WITH ATTENTION
AND TRANSFORMERS
In this chapter, you’ll learn about attention, a mechanism that enables
models making predictions to focus on specific parts of the input data,
based on their relevance. Attention was first introduced in encoder-
decoder architectures to improve machine translation by allowing
models to selectively focus on the most relevant parts of a sentence.
This approach addressed the difficulty of capturing dependencies
between faraway words.
The concept of attention has since become fundamental for
transformers, a revolutionary neural network architecture that has
changed the handling of sequence data such as sentences and time
series. Transformers’ self-attention mechanism allows them to capture
long-range dependencies, which leads to improved performance
compared to older models like the recurrent neural networks you met in
Chapter 7.
Since Google introduced the transformer architecture in 2017,
transformers have become the go-to model for many language-

--- Strana 492 ---
processing tasks, including translating text (machine translation),
creating a short summary of a long document (text summarization), and
determining whether a piece of text has a positive or negative tone
(sentiment analysis). Transformers have also been used to predict
protein structure from genetic sequences (AlphaFold), analyze images
(vision transformers, or ViTs), and link language and images by learning
visual concepts from natural language supervision (Contrastive
Language-Image Pre-training, or CLIP).
In this chapter, you’ll begin by implementing a machine translation
network that uses attention, which outperforms the recurrent neural
network you used in Project 7A. Next, you’ll explore sentiment analysis,
applying transformers to determine the emotional tone of a text
(namely, whether a movie review is positive or negative). Finally, you’ll
apply transformer principles to image analysis via ViT, a
groundbreaking architecture that outperforms traditional convolutional
neural networks. By this chapter’s end, your understanding of the
attention mechanism and transformers will allow you to apply them to
your own projects.
Understanding Attention
Before diving into concrete applications, let’s use a simple example to
illustrate how the attention mechanism operates. Consider this
sentence: “The teacher praised a student because she improved.” For
humans, deriving semantic information from this sentence is
straightforward. You can immediately answer questions like “Does
improved refer to the teacher or the student?”
However, this task poses serious challenges for an algorithm because
it lacks the inherent ability to understand context and resolve
ambiguous references as humans do. Determining whether improved
refers to teacher or student requires analyzing the relationships and
dependencies between words in the sentence. Traditional models
struggle with this because of their limitations in capturing long-range
dependencies and nuanced semantic information.

--- Strana 493 ---
The attention mechanism allows models to evaluate the importance
of each word in a sentence relative to other words, either within the
same sentence (self-attention) or across different sentences (cross-
attention). In self-attention, a sentence attends to itself to capture
internal dependencies, whereas in cross-attention, one sentence attends
to another to capture inter-sentence relationships. For simplicity, we
will focus on cross-attention in the following example.
Implementing Dot-Product Attention
Let’s see the cross-attention mechanism in action. Start by defining two
sentences:
query_sentence = "The teacher praised a student because she improved"
key_sentence = "A student asked the teacher to help her improve"
As you’ll see in the rest of this section, the attention mechanism allows
the neural network to focus on relevant parts of the key sentence when
processing the query sentence, thus enhancing its understanding of
important relationships between the two sentences.
Because neural networks cannot directly process raw text, you need
to tokenize the sentences and convert each word into an embedding
vector. An embedding is a numerical representation of a word in a
continuous vector space, capturing its semantic meaning and
relationships to other words. By employing the attention mechanism,
you’ll be able to compute attention weights that highlight the relevance
of each word in the key sentence to each word in the query sentence.
These attention weights are stored in an attention matrix, representing
the extent to which each word in the query sentence attends to every
word in the key sentence.
Then you’ll update the embeddings of the query sentence by using
the attention weights to compute a weighted sum of the key sentence
embeddings. The updated embeddings, known as attention outputs,
provide enriched representations of the query tokens that incorporate
relevant contextual information from the key sentence. This process
allows the model to focus on important relationships between the two
sentences.

--- Strana 494 ---
Tokenization and Conversion to Embeddings
You’ll first need to tokenize the sentence and convert the words into
embedding vectors; you’ve already seen this process in Project 7A.
Tokenize the sentences to separate the individual words they
contain. You can do this as follows:
query_tokens = query_sentence.split()
key_tokens = key_sentence.split()
Then print the resulting lists of tokens with print(query_tokens) and
print(key_tokens):
['The', 'teacher', 'praised', 'a', 'student', 'because', 'she', 'improved']
['A', 'student', 'asked', 'the', 'teacher', 'to', 'help', 'her', 'improve']
Note that both sentences contain pronouns like she and her, which can
be ambiguous without context. The attention mechanism can help the
model resolve such ambiguities by focusing on relevant words in the key
sentence.
Next, you need to convert these lists of tokens into embeddings.
Each word will become a vector of numbers, and each sentence will
become a matrix, as shown in Figure 8-1.
Figure 8-1: A matrix representation of the query and key sentences
These matrices represent the embedded query and key sentences;
each row corresponds to a word in the sentence, and each column

--- Strana 495 ---
represents the features of the embedding. Formally, these matrices
belong to the vector space ℝn×d, where n is the sequence length and d is
the embedding dimension.
To obtain meaningful embeddings that capture the semantic
relationships between words, you’ll use GloVe, the popular pretrained
embedding model that you used in Project 7A. To recap briefly, GloVe
embeddings are learned from a large corpus of text and encode both
semantic and syntactic information by capturing global word co-
occurrence statistics. Using pre-trained embeddings like GloVe allows
your model to obtain rich linguistic information without the need to
train embeddings from scratch.
You downloaded the GloVe embeddings previously with Listing 7-
41, so now you can obtain the GloVe embeddings of the sentences as
shown in Listing 8-1.
import numpy as np
import torch
glove_file = os.path.join(glove_folder, "glove.42B.300d.txt")
glove_embed, embed_dim = load_glove_embeddings(glove_file), 300
query_embeddings = get_glove_embeddings(query_tokens, glove_embed, embed_dim)
key_embeddings = get_glove_embeddings(key_tokens, glove_embed, embed_dim)
Listing 8-1: Calculating the embeddings of the query and key sentences
Using the load_glove_embeddings() function (Listing 7-42), this code
loads the 300-dimensional embeddings into the glove_embed dictionary,
which maps each word to its corresponding 300-dimensional
embedding vector. Then this code employs the get_glove_embeddings()
function (Listing 7-43) to transform the tokenized sentences
(query_tokens and key_tokens) into embedding matrices (query_embeddings and
key_embeddings).
Each row in these matrices represents a word’s embedding in a 300-
dimensional space. These embeddings effectively transform your
tokenized sentences into numerical formats that the attention

--- Strana 496 ---
mechanism can process, enabling the model to capture the semantic
relationships between words in your query and key sentences.
Attention Mechanism
A simple way to compute the attention matrix is by calculating the dot
product between the matrices containing the query and key embeddings.
This means calculating the similarity between each word in the query
sentence and each word in the key sentence by performing a dot
product of their respective embedding vectors.
This operation results in an attention matrix with each element
representing the degree of relevance, or similarity, between a query
word and a key word. The higher the dot product value, the more
similar the words in terms of their embeddings. This attention matrix
effectively quantifies how much each word in the query sentence
“attends to” (or focuses on) each word in the key sentence, enabling the
model to prioritize the most relevant information when updating the
query embeddings with contextual information from the key sentence.
NOTE
In this matrix representation of the sentences, each word corresponds to
a row, which can be interpreted as a vector. You can think of vectors as
arrows, and the dot product as an alignment score: You’re essentially
determining how much one vector points in the direction of another. If
they have exactly the same direction, the dot product is maximum and
corresponds to the product of their lengths. If the vectors are at a 90-
degree angle to each other, the dot product is 0.
After calculating the dot product between the query and key
embeddings, you usually divide the attention matrix by the square root
of the embedding dimension (d) to help stabilize the gradients when
working with high-dimensional vectors. This division is what gives the
operation the name scaled dot product. Finally, you need to normalize the
scores into weights by applying the softmax function.

--- Strana 497 ---
The whole dot-attention process is shown in the top row of Figure
8-2.
Figure 8-2: Calculating the attention matrix and attention output
To calculate the attention output, you need to multiply the attention
matrix by the value embeddings, resulting in an updated representation of
the query sentence. In this case, you’ll also use the key embeddings as
the value embeddings so that the values are the same as the keys. This
operation effectively aggregates the value embeddings, weighted by the
attention scores, to produce new embeddings for the query words that
incorporate relevant information from the key sentence. The attention

--- Strana 498 ---
output provides enriched embeddings for the query tokens that reflect
the contextual relationships captured by the attention mechanism, as
illustrated in the bottom row of Figure 8-2.
You can implement the dot-product attention with the
DotProductAttention class shown in Listing 8-2.
import deeplay as dl
class DotProductAttention(dl.DeeplayModule):
    """Dot-product attention."""
 
    def __init__(self):
        """Initialize dot-product attention."""
        super().__init__()
    def forward(self, queries, keys, values):
        """Calculate dot-product attention."""
        attn_scores = (torch.matmul(queries, keys.transpose(-2, -1))
                       / (keys.size(-1) ** 0.5))
        attn_matrix = torch.nn.functional.softmax(attn_scores, dim=-1)
        attn_output = torch.matmul(attn_matrix, values)
        return attn_output, attn_matrix
Listing 8-2: The class implementing the dot-product attention
The forward() method calculates the attention scores (attn_scores) by
performing a scaled dot product between the queries and the transposed
keys. The method then normalizes the attention scores via the softmax
function to obtain the attention matrix (attn_matrix), which represents
the normalized relevance of each key to each query. Finally, the method
computes the attention output (attn_output) by multiplying the attention
matrix with the values, resulting in updated query embeddings that
incorporate information from the key sentence.
NOTE
The dot-product attention mechanism is analogous to a hash table
lookup, where queries are like search terms, keys are the entries, and

--- Strana 499 ---
values are the returned data. The mechanism compares each query to
the keys to find the most relevant match, with higher similarity scores
(dot products) indicating more-relevant values. This explains the
terminology: Like looking up a query in a key-value store, the
attention process retrieves information (values) based on the relevance
of keys to the query.
You can finally calculate the attention matrix and outputs:
attention = DotProductAttention() 
attn_output, attn_matrix = attention(
    queries=query_embeddings, keys=key_embeddings, values=key_embeddings,
)
With the attention outputs and matrix calculated, you have now fully
implemented the dot-product attention mechanism, enabling your
model to effectively capture and utilize the contextual relationships
between the query and key sentences.
Visualizing Attention
You can now use the function in Listing 8-3 to visualize the attention
matrix.
from matplotlib import pyplot as plt 
from matplotlib.ticker import FixedLocator
def plot_attention(query_tokens, key_tokens, attn_matrix):
    """Plot attention."""
    fig, ax = plt.subplots()
    cax = ax.matshow(attn_matrix, cmap="Greens")
    fig.colorbar(cax)
    ax.xaxis.set_major_locator(FixedLocator(range(len(key_tokens))))
    ax.yaxis.set_major_locator(FixedLocator(range(len(query_tokens))))
    ax.set_xticklabels(key_tokens, rotation=90)
    ax.set_yticklabels(query_tokens)
    plt.show()
Listing 8-3: The function to plot an attention matrix

--- Strana 500 ---
This function generates a heatmap that provides insight into how
much focus the model places on each word in the key sentence when
processing the query sentence. The function accepts three arguments:
query_tokens, key_tokens, and attn_matrix. The query_tokens and key_tokens
arguments represent the words in the query and key sentences,
respectively, while attn_matrix is the attention matrix that the model has
generated.
You can then use this function with
plot_attention(query_tokens, key_tokens, attn_matrix.detach().squeeze())
which should generate Figure 8-3.
Figure 8-3: The attention matrix heatmap
The rows represent the tokens of the query sentence, while the
columns represent the tokens of the key sentence. The heatmap displays
the attention weights, with darker areas indicating higher attention
scores.
Upon closely examining the heatmap, it does indeed illustrate a case
of cross-attention using GloVe embeddings, where not only direct
correspondences are highlighted but also cross-attention between
semantically related words. The most noticeable pattern is the attention
between corresponding words in the query and key, indicating that

--- Strana 501 ---
words like teacher in the query sentence align well with teacher in the key
sentence, and student aligns well with student—but also, less meaningful
words such as a and the align. These direct correspondences are
expected, given that both words appear in both sentences.
However, what is particularly interesting in this cross-attention
example is the way the model highlights semantically related but
nonidentical words. For example, there’s attention between she in the
query and her in the key sentence. This suggests that the attention
mechanism is capable of recognizing that these words are related, even
though they are not exact matches. This demonstrates the strength of
cross-attention with pretrained embeddings like GloVe, as semantically
related words that don’t necessarily match exactly can still share
attention.
It’s important to note that, in this example, there are no learnable
weights, either in the words’ encodings or in the attention mechanism
itself. Therefore, the results simply reflect the basic relationships
between embedding vectors. These embeddings have been pretrained
on a large corpus and capture semantic similarities between words based
on their co-occurrence statistics in that corpus. As a result, the attention
mechanism here is using these fixed relationships, with words that are
semantically related or frequently co-occurring (such as she and her)
receiving higher attention weights. However, because the embeddings
and the attention mechanism are not fine-tuned to the specific task or
dataset, the model’s performance is limited by the general relationships
encoded in GloVe, rather than being adapted to optimize for this
particular example (for example, returning a low attention between her
and student).
While this is reasonable for exact matching tasks, the true strength
of attention comes with models that can learn to assign higher attention
weights to words that are relevant to the query based on context. In
these situations, attention helps the model focus on the most relevant
information, improving its ability to understand and process data. You’ll
see this in Project 8A, where the dot-product attention will improve the
translation ability of the seq2seq model you implemented in Project 7A.

--- Strana 502 ---
EXERCISES
8-1:  Use the sentence “Gardens and zoos are full of plants and
animals” to compute a self-attention matrix, obtained using the
same sentence as both query and key. Analyze the self-attention
matrix to see how the model attends to different words. Identify
which words pay more attention to each other, and explain how
this reflects the semantic relationships between them. Visualize the
matrix as a heatmap to assist in interpreting the attention patterns.
8-2:  Replace the pretrained GloVe embeddings in the attention
mechanism with randomly initialized embeddings. Use these
random embeddings to compute the attention matrix for the
sentence “Gardens and zoos are full of plants and animals.”
Compare the resulting attention patterns to those obtained with
GloVe embeddings, and discuss how the absence of semantic
information in the random embeddings impacts the attention
mechanism’s performance. Notice and explain the prominence of
the diagonal elements.
Making the Attention Mechanism Trainable
The dot-product attention introduced earlier is a form of multiplicative
attention: The queries and keys are multiplied directly. More-complex
forms of multiplicative attention can include learnable weights or
transformations that allow the model to adjust its focus dynamically
based on the input data, offering more flexibility in capturing relevant
information from different parts of the sequence.
A notable example is standard scaled dot-product attention, in which
queries, keys, and values are transformed by applying a learned linear
transformation with learnable weights. This enables the model to learn
more-sophisticated interactions between the queries and keys by
modifying their representations, as shown in Figure 8-4.

--- Strana 503 ---
Figure 8-4: Trainable dot-product attention
The learnable linear transformations that generate the query, key,
and value matrices in this form of attention permit the model to be
trained to optimize the attention mechanism for a specific task. This
enables the model to capture more-nuanced and task-relevant
relationships between the queries and keys.
This form of attention is implemented by the TrainableAttention class
in Listing 8-4.
--snip--
class TrainableAttention(dl.DeeplayModule):
    """Trainable dot-product attention."""
    def __init__(self, num_in_features=300, num_out_features=256):
        """Initialize trainable dot-product attention."""
        super().__init__()
        self.Wq = torch.nn.Linear(num_in_features, num_out_features)
        self.Wk = torch.nn.Linear(num_in_features, num_out_features)
        self.Wv = torch.nn.Linear(num_in_features, num_out_features)
     
    def forward(self, queries, keys, values):
        """Calculate dot-product attention with linear transformations."""
        Q, K, V = self.Wq(queries), self.Wk(keys), self.Wv(values)
        attn_scores = (torch.matmul(Q, K.transpose(-2, -1)) 
                       / (K.shape[-1] ** 0.5))
        attn_matrix = torch.nn.functional.softm.softmax(attn_scores, dim=-1)

--- Strana 504 ---
        attn_output = torch.matmul(attn_weights, V)
        return attn_output, attn_matrix
Listing 8-4: The class implementing trainable dot-product attention (by modifying Listing 8-
2)
In this case, the weight matrices (Wq, Wk, and Wv) are initialized
randomly, and the training process will later determine their final
values.
In the forward() method, the input query, key, and value matrices are
first transformed by applying the learnable linear transformations Wq, Wk,
and Wv. These transformations adjust the original representations of the
queries, keys, and values, allowing the model to learn task-specific
representations. The num_in_features parameter represents the
dimensionality of the input embeddings (typically, the size of the
pretrained word embeddings or other input features), while
num_out_features refers to the dimensionality of the transformed query,
key, and value matrices. By adjusting num_out_features, you can control the
size of the latent space where the attention mechanism operates,
increasing or decreasing the model’s capacity to capture complex
relationships.
The dot-product attention scores are then computed by taking the
scaled dot product between the transformed query and key matrices. As
in the preceding case, the attention scores are normalized by using the
softmax function to produce attention weights, which represent the
relative importance of each key in relation to the query. Finally, the
attention output is computed by applying these weights to the value
matrix.
This approach adds significant flexibility, as the model can learn the
optimal way to represent and relate queries, keys, and values for the task
at hand. For example, in a machine translation task, the model may
learn that certain transformations of the query (such as focusing more
on specific syntactic structures) improve translation accuracy, or that
certain key representations should be downplayed in favor of others.
This trainable dot-product attention forms the backbone of the self-
attention mechanism in modern transformers, as it allows the model to

--- Strana 505 ---
dynamically focus on different parts of the input sequence during both
training and inference.
EXERCISES
8-3:  Implement the trainable dot-product attention described in
Listing 8-4, using random initialization for the weight matrices (Wq,
Wk, and Wv). Then compare the performance of this approach on the
sentence “Gardens and zoos are full of plants and animals,” using
two different methods: random embeddings and GloVe
embeddings. Compute the attention matrices in both cases, plot
the results, and observe whether the attention weights differ when
using pretrained embeddings versus randomly initialized ones.
8-4:  The standard dot-product attention implemented in Listing
8-4 has several variants. For example, general attention applies the
linear transformation only to the keys. Implement it and see how it
performs.
Implementing Other Attention Mechanisms
Beyond simple dot-product attention, several other mechanisms may
better capture relationships between the input and output sequences,
depending on the task. These include translation, summarization, and
question answering.
Historically, the first attention mechanism used for translation tasks
was additive attention, which differs from dot-product attention in that it
combines the transformed queries and keys by computing a weighted
sum of their elements, followed by a nonlinear activation function. This
method allows the attention mechanism to capture more-complex
relationships but is computationally more intensive. An implementation
of this method can be seen in Listing 8-5.

--- Strana 506 ---
--snip--
class AdditiveAttention(dl.DeeplayModule):
    """Additive attention."""
    def __init__(self, num_in_features=300, num_out_features=256):
        """Initialize additive attention."""
        super().__init__()
        self.Wq = torch.nn.Linear(num_in_features, num_out_features)
        self.Wk = torch.nn.Linear(num_in_features, num_out_features)
        self.Ws = torch.nn.Linear(num_out_features, 1)
    def forward(self, queries, keys, values):
        """Calculate additive attention."""
        Q, K = self.Wq(queries), self.Wk(keys)
        attn_scores = self.Ws(
            torch.tanh(Q.unsqueeze(-2) + K.unsqueeze(-3))
        ).squeeze(-1)
        attn_matrix = torch.nn.functional.softmax(attn_scores, dim=-1)
        attn_output = torch.matmul(attn_matrix, values)
        return attn_output, attn_matrix
Listing 8-5: The class implementing additive attention (by modifying Listing 8-4)
Instead of using a dot product between the query and key matrices,
this class first combines the transformed queries and keys by summing
them element-wise. Then the class passes this sum through a nonlinear
activation function (torch.tanh()) to introduce nonlinearity, allowing the
model to capture more-complex relationships between queries and keys.
Afterward, the attention scores are transformed through an additional
linear layer (Ws), reducing the dimensionality to a single score per key-
query pair. Finally, the scores are normalized via softmax to form the
attention matrix.
While dot-product attention (and other types of multiplicative
attention) is computationally efficient and well suited to high-
dimensional vectors, it may struggle to capture complex relationships
when working with lower-dimensional data. As you’ll see in Project 8B,
this makes it a popular choice for large-scale models like transformers,
where computational speed is critical.

--- Strana 507 ---
On the other hand, additive attention is more expressive and better
equipped to capture complex relationships between queries and keys.
This makes it suitable when understanding subtle interactions between
elements is important. However, this approach comes with higher
computational costs and slower processing. The choice between these
mechanisms should be guided by the model architecture, the complexity
of the data, and the desired balance between performance and
computational efficiency.
NOTE
Code Example 8-1, “Understanding Attention,” is available at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate 
to 
the 
Ch08_Attention 
folder 
and 
then
ec08_1_attention. The attention.ipynb notebook provides a
complete code example to create the attention classes, apply them to the
example sentences, and visualize the attention heatmaps.
Project 8A: Using Attention to Improve Language
Translation
In complex sequence-to-sequence tasks like machine translation,
relationships between words and phrases often span long sequences. In
Project 7A, for example, you might remember that "This book is very
interesting." was correctly translated as "Este libro es muy interesante ."
However, the output was often less accurate with longer and more
complex sentences like "The book that I bought is very interesting."
In the basic seq2seq model from Project 7A, the decoder generates
each word sequentially, relying heavily on the encoder’s final hidden
state for context. This final hidden state, which condenses the entire
input sequence into a single vector, must capture all relevant
information. With longer sequences, this leads to significant
information loss, limiting the decoder’s ability to produce accurate
translations.

--- Strana 508 ---
The attention mechanism addresses this limitation by allowing the
model to focus on different parts of the input sequence for each word
being generated, improving its ability to capture and handle long-range
dependencies dynamically.
Incorporating Attention
Here, you’ll enhance the seq2seq model by incorporating attention into
the translation process. You’ll also analyze why attention improves
translation performance over the basic recurrent neural network from
Project 7A by visualizing the attention mechanism with heatmaps. To do
this, you’ll start from the nlp_rnn.ipynb notebook from Project 7A and
alter it.
Modifying the Decoder
In seq2seq tasks such as translation, the model uses the encoder’s hidden
state to store information about the source sentence. The decoder then
generates the translated words one at a time, relying on a context vector
that is updated iteratively.
However, not all words in the source sentence are equally relevant to
the current word being translated. To address this, you can apply dot-
product cross-attention. This mechanism uses the decoder’s hidden state
at each step as the queries, and the encoder’s hidden states as the keys.
This allows the model to focus on the most relevant parts of the source
sentence as needed, improving translation accuracy.
To include the attention mechanism defined by the DotProductAttention
class (Listing 8-2) in the seq2seq model, you’ll first need to modify
Seq2Seq Decoder(), described in Listing 7-35. The changes to the decoder
are shown in Listing 8-6.
class Seq2SeqDecoder(dl.DeeplayModule):
    """Sequence-to-sequence decoder with dot-product attention."""
    def __init__(...):
        --snip--
        self.softmax = dl.Layer(torch.nn.Softmax, dim=-1)

--- Strana 509 ---
        self.attn = DotProductAttention()
    def forward(self, decoder_in_values, contexts, encoded_sequences):
        --snip--
        decoder_outputs, contexts = self.rnn(out_embeddings, contexts)
        attn_contexts, attn_weights = self.attn(queries=decoder_outputs, 
                                                keys=encoded_sequences, 
                                                values=encoded_sequences)
        decoder_outputs = decoder_outputs + attn_contexts
        decoder_outputs = self.dense(decoder_outputs)
        --snip--
        return decoder_outputs, contexts, attn_weights
Listing 8-6: The class implementing a decoder with attention (by modifying Listing 7-35)
In this updated code, the DotProductAttention module is added as the
attention mechanism, allowing the decoder to focus on specific parts of
the input sequence. The signature of the forward() method now includes
encoded_sequences, which is necessary for the attention mechanism to
function. The decoder uses the dot product to compute the attentional
context vectors stored in attn_contexts from the decoder’s hidden states
(queries) and the encoder’s hidden states (keys). Since the value matrix is
given by encoded_sequences, the attentional context vectors in attn_contexts
are a weighted average of the encoder hidden states, with weights
determined by the attention scores.
The resulting attentional context vectors are combined with the
decoder’s outputs by simply summing them. This approach helps limit
the number of weights in the model, simplifying the architecture and
reducing the computational load. However, alternative strategies, such
as concatenating the context vectors with the decoder’s outputs, may
provide more-expressive representations. While concatenation typically
requires additional adjustments, such as increasing the input size of
subsequent layers, it can offer improved performance by allowing the
model to make use of more-complex interactions.
The combination of attentional context vectors and the decoder’s
outputs provides additional contextual information from the encoder.
This enhances the decoder’s ability to generate accurate translations.

--- Strana 510 ---
The forward() method also returns the attention weights (attn_weights),
which can be used to visualize which words in the input sequence were
most influential for each translated word.
Modifying the Seq2Seq Model
Next, you’ll modify Seq2SeqModel, described in Listing 7-36, as highlighted
in Listing 8-7.
class Seq2SeqModel(dl.DeeplayModule):
    """Sequence-to-sequence model with attention."
        --snip--
    def forward(self, batch):
        --snip--
        encoder_outputs, contexts = self.encoder(in_sequences)
        --snip--
        for t in range(sequence_length):
            decoder_outputs, contexts, _ = \
                self.decoder(decoder_in_values, contexts, encoder_outputs)
         --snip--
    def evaluate(self, in_sequences):
        --snip--
        with torch.no_grad():
            encoder_outputs, contexts = self.encoder(in_sequences)
        --snip--
        attn_matrices = torch.zeros(
            num_sequences, sequence_length, sequence_length
        ).to(device)
        for t in range(sequence_length):
            --snip--
            with torch.no_grad():
                decoder_outputs, contexts, attn_weights = \
                    self.decoder(decoder_inputs, contexts, encoder_outputs)
                attn_matrices[:, t, :] = attn_weights.squeeze(1)

--- Strana 511 ---
            --snip--
        return pred_sequences, attn_matrices
Listing 8-7: The class implementing a seq2seq model with attention (by modifying Listing 7-
36)
Integrating the attention mechanism into the model requires
modifying the forward() and evaluate() methods to obtain the encoder
outputs in encoder_outputs from the encoder and use them as input in the
call to the decoder. These encoder outputs allow the decoder to focus
on relevant parts of the input sequence at each decoding step.
In the forward() method, you’ll use a placeholder (_) to ignore the
attention weights, as they aren’t needed as an output of the model
during training. However, in the evaluate() method, you’ll store the
attention weights in a tensor (attn_matrices) to return them alongside the
predicted sequences. This will allow you to later visualize and interpret
the attention patterns used by the model during translation.
Training and Testing the Seq2Seq Model with Attention
You’re now ready to perform all the steps described in Project 7A to
train the seq2seq model with dot-product attention. Although using
dot-product attention doesn’t increase the network’s trainable
parameters, it significantly enhances performance. When trained under
the same conditions as the basic seq2seq model from Project 7A, the
final loss consistently reaches values around 0.5. Additionally, evaluating
the translation quality on the test dataset yields a BLEU score of 0.43.
To assess performance, you need to slightly modify the code from
Listing 7-48 by adding a placeholder to ignore the attention matrix
returned by the evaluate() method, as shown in Listing 8-8.
--snip--
for batch_index, (in_sequences, out_sequences) in enumerate(test_loader):
    in_sentences = unprocess(in_sequences.to(device), in_vocab, specials)
    pred_sequences, _ = seq2seq.model.evaluate(in_sequences.to(device))
--snip--
Listing 8-8: Testing the model and calculating the BLEU score (by modifying Listing 7-48)

--- Strana 512 ---
Beyond improving model performance, attention weights provide
insights into how different parts of the source sequence influence the
output. This makes the translation process more interpretable. Since the
evaluate() method now returns both the predicted sequence and the
attention weights, you can modify the translate() function (Listing 7-47)
to also return the attention matrix alongside the word tokens, as shown
in Listing 8-9.
def translate(...:
    --snip--
    pred_sequence, attn_matrix = model.evaluate(in_sequence)
    --snip--
    print(f"Predicted Translation: {pred_sentence[0]}\n")
    pred_tokens = [out_vocab.lookup_token(idx) for idx in pred_sequence[0]]
    return in_tokens, pred_tokens, attn_matrix.squeeze()
Listing 8-9: Translating user-defined sentences (by modifying Listing 7-47)
The updated translate() function now returns the tokenized words of
the input and predicted sentences, along with the attention matrix.
These outputs can be jointly used to visualize attention with a heatmap.
Interpreting the Attention Matrix
Let’s examine the behavior of the dot-product attention model when
applied to the same sentence that yielded poor results for the basic
model in Project 7A:
in_sentence = "The book that I bought is very interesting."
in_tokens, pred_tokens, attn_matrix = translate(
    in_sentence, seq2seq.model, in_lang, in_vocab, out_vocab, specials,
)
The improved translation now reads as follows:
Predicted Translation: El libro que compré es muy interesante .
You can now use the plot_attention() function (Listing 8-3) to plot the
attention matrix as shown in Listing 8-10.

--- Strana 513 ---
in_tokens = [token for token in in_tokens if token not in specials]
pred_tokens = [token for token in pred_tokens if token not in specials]
attn_matrix = attn_matrix[:len(pred_tokens), 1:len(in_tokens) + 1]
plot_attention(pred_tokens, in_tokens, attn_matrix)
Listing 8-10: Plotting the translation attention matrix
This code removes the special tokens from the input token sequence
(in_tokens) and the translated token sequence (pred_tokens). Then the code
extracts the semantically meaningful part of the attention matrix by
removing the portions of the attention matrix relative to the special
tokens. The left panel of Figure 8-5 shows the resulting attention
heatmap.
Figure 8-5: The translation attention heatmaps
The x-axis represents the tokens of the source sentence in English,
while the y-axis represents the tokens of the translated sentence in
Spanish. The heatmap displays the attention weights, with darker areas
indicating higher attention scores. This helps us identify which parts of
the input sequence the model focuses on during translation.
With attention, the model now provides an accurate translation. The
first part of the phrase, “The book that I bought,” is translated as “El
libro que compré,” with the model correctly attending to the
corresponding parts of each sequence. The pronoun I is not explicitly

--- Strana 514 ---
translated into Spanish, as it’s implicitly understood in the verb compré
(which means I bought). The phrase “is very interesting” is directly
translated as “es muy interesante,” maintaining the proper sequence and
context.
This translation, along with the corresponding attention heatmap in
the left panel of Figure 8-5, illustrates the concept of soft alignment.
Specifically, compré aligns with both I and bought, capturing the meaning
conveyed by both words. Similarly, the word El, used to translate The,
attends to both The and book in the source sentence, as Spanish articles
change to reflect the gender of the noun. This alignment demonstrates
how the model correctly associates multiple parts of a phrase, even
when grammatical structures differ between languages, producing a
more coherent and contextually accurate translation compared to the
basic model in Project 7A.
Let’s now challenge the model with an interrogative sentence:
in_sentence = "Do you think that we should go home?"
in_tokens, pred_tokens, attn_matrix = translate(
    in_sentence, seq2seq.model, in_lang, in_vocab, out_vocab, specials,
)
Here’s the result:
Predicted Translation: ¿ Crees que deberíamos ir a casa ?
The model again provides an accurate translation. You can use Listing
8-10 to plot the attention map. The result should be similar to the right
panel of Figure 8-5 and should highlight the parts of the input sequence
that the model focuses on when generating each word in the output.
In this example, because of the interrogative form, the word order
differs in the source and target sentences, so the heatmap doesn’t follow
a diagonal pattern. The initial inverted question mark in Spanish, ¿,
which has no equivalent in English, shows strong attention to the final
question mark in the source sentence, indicating the interrogative
nature. Similarly, the preposition a, which has no direct translation in
the English sentence, has high attention weights for home, as it
establishes the correct grammatical structure in Spanish.

--- Strana 515 ---
NOTE
Code Example 8-A, “Translating with Attention,” is available at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch08_Attention folder and then ec08_A_nlp_attn.
The nlp_attn.ipynb notebook provides a complete code example
demonstrating how to implement a seq2seq model for machine
translation that uses recurrent neural networks and the dot-product
attention mechanism.
Project 8B: Performing Sentiment Analysis with a
Transformer
The power of self-attention to capture long-range dependencies
between words or tokens in a sentence is fully exploited by
transformers. Transformers, unlike earlier models such as recurrent
neural networks, don’t rely on sequential processing to manage
dependencies within a sentence. Instead, they use a multi-head attention
mechanism to focus on different parts of a sentence simultaneously
while processing the sequence in parallel. This makes transformers
highly efficient and effective for NLP tasks.
This parallel attention enables transformers to amplify important
tokens, such as key sentiment words, while reducing the influence of less
relevant ones. This dynamic focus adjustment across the input sequence
enhances the model’s understanding and representation of text,
particularly in complex tasks like sentiment analysis, which may tie
sentiment to specific phrases or words within a longer sentence.
Additionally, the parallel processing capabilities of transformers make
them more scalable, allowing them to handle longer texts more
efficiently and perform better than models based on recurrent neural
networks.
To see these concepts in action, you’ll implement a transformer
encoder to perform sentiment analysis, a common NLP task that
categorizes text based on its positive or negative tone.

--- Strana 516 ---
Breaking Down Multi-Head Attention
The ability of transformers to process input data in parallel is made
possible by multi-head attention, a mechanism that enhances the
expressiveness of the attention layers without significantly increasing
the parameter count. The structure of multi-head attention is shown in
Figure 8-6.
Figure 8-6: Multi-head attention
Multi-head attention employs a divide-and-conquer approach by
splitting the attention process into multiple attention heads. Each head
independently attends to different parts of the input sequence,
extracting distinct features. These individual outputs are then
concatenated and passed through a linear transformation to produce the
final attention output. This multifaceted approach enables the model to
gain a deeper and more comprehensive understanding of the input
sequence.
This process is often likened to a team of experts analyzing multiple
facets of a complex problem and combining their insights to reach a
conclusion. Similarly, multi-head attention allows each head to focus on
different parts of the input, making the overall model more robust in its
interpretation.
You can implement multi-head self-attention as shown in Listing 8-
11.

--- Strana 517 ---
import deeplay as dl
import torch
class MultiHeadAttentionLayer(dl.DeeplayModule):
    """"Multi-head attention layer."""
 
    def __init__(self, num_features, num_heads):
        """Initialize multi-head attention."""
        super().__init__()
        self.num_features, self.num_heads = num_features, num_heads
        self.head_dim = num_features // num_heads  # Must be integer
     
        self.Wq = dl.Layer(torch.nn.Linear, num_features, num_features)
        self.Wk = dl.Layer(torch.nn.Linear, num_features, num_features)
        self.Wv = dl.Layer(torch.nn.Linear, num_features, num_features)
        self.Wout = dl.Layer(torch.nn.Linear, num_features, num_features)
 
    def forward(self, in_sequence):
        """Apply the multi-head attention mechanism to the input sequence."""
        seq_len, embed_dim = in_sequence.shape
        Q = self.Wq(in_sequence)
        Q = Q.view(seq_len, self.num_heads, self.head_dim).permute(1, 0, 2)
        K = self.Wk(in_sequence)
        K = K.view(seq_len, self.num_heads, self.head_dim).permute(1, 0, 2)
        V = self.Wv(in_sequence)
        V = V.view(seq_len, self.num_heads, self.head_dim).permute(1, 0, 2)
     
        attn_scores = (torch.matmul(Q, K.transpose(-2, -1)) 
                       / (self.head_dim ** 0.5))
        attn_weights = torch.nn.functional.softmax(attn_scores, dim=-1)
        attn_output = torch.matmul(attn_weights, V)
     ➊ attn_output = attn_output.permute(1, 0, 2).contiguous()
     ➋ attn_output = attn_output.view(seq_len, self.num_features)
        return self.Wout(attn_output)
Listing 8-11: The class to implement multi-head attention

--- Strana 518 ---
This implementation is an advanced variation of the standard scaled
dot-product attention shown previously in Listing 8-4. The class takes
as arguments num_features, which defines the dimensionality of the input,
and num_heads, which specifies the number of attention heads (num_features
must be divisible by num_heads, as each attention head processes a subset
of the features).
In the forward() method, the input sequences are transformed using
linear layers (Wq, Wk, and Wv). After the query, key, and value matrices are
computed, the code reshapes the tensors to accommodate multiple
attention heads via the view() method, which splits the input into
num_heads parts, each with head_dim dimensions. The subsequent permute(1,
0, 2) method rearranges the tensor dimensions by swapping the
sequence length and the number of heads, allowing each attention head
to process its portion of the sequence independently and in parallel.
After the heads are split, the dot products and attention weights are
computed just as in the standard scaled dot-product attention
mechanism. After processing, the individual head outputs are
concatenated back together ➊ and reshaped into their original sequence
length and dimension ➋. A final linear transformation via Wout is applied
to combine the outputs from all heads, producing the final result.
Understanding the Transformer Structure
Transformers consist of a stack of layers, each containing a multi-head
attention mechanism followed by a feed-forward neural network. These
layers are further enhanced with layer normalization and residual
connections to ensure stability during training and to facilitate effective
gradient flow.
The classical transformer architecture is an encoder-decoder model.
Similar to the seq2seq architecture, the encoder processes the input
sequence to generate contextual representations, while the decoder uses
these representations to produce the output sequence; producing the
output may involve translating the input into another language or
transforming it into a different form. The decoder mirrors the encoder’s
structure but includes an additional cross-attention layer, enabling the

--- Strana 519 ---
decoder to focus on relevant parts of the encoded input while
generating the output sequence.
However, the transformer architecture is highly flexible: Beyond the
classical encoder-decoder model, it can also be designed as an encoder-
only or decoder-only variant. Each variation serves distinct learning
objectives depending on the task requirements. For example, encoder-
only transformers are well suited for tasks like classification, which focus
on understanding and representing the input. On the other hand,
decoder-only transformers are often employed in tasks involving
generative modeling, such as text generation.
In this section, you’ll implement an encoder-only transformer, as
illustrated in Figure 8-7.
Figure 8-7: An encoder-only transformer including a multi-head attention layer and a fully
connected neural network (FCNN) layer
The encoder alone is sufficient for tasks such as classification and
sequence embedding, where the primary objective is to comprehend and
represent the input sequence rather than generate a new output
sequence.
Loading the IMDb Dataset
You’ll start by downloading the IMDb Large Movie Review dataset at
https://huggingface.co/datasets/imdb. It contains 50,000 movie reviews,
labeled as positive or negative. The dataset is divided into 25,000
reviews for training and 25,000 reviews for testing. You can download it
with Listing 8-12 (you’ll need to install the Hugging Face Datasets
library with pip install datasets).

--- Strana 520 ---
from datasets import load_dataset
dataset = load_dataset("imdb")
Listing 8-12: Downloading the IMDb dataset
This code downloads the dataset dictionary that contains the "train"
and "test" sets. Each set is also a dictionary with two keys: "text", which
contains movie reviews, and "label", which contains the sentiment of the
review; 0 denotes a negative sentiment, and 1 denotes a positive
sentiment.
Before proceeding, you’ll split the training set into training and
validation datasets, as shown in Listing 8-13.
split = dataset["train"].train_test_split(test_size=0.2,
                                          stratify_by_column="label", seed=42)
train_dataset, val_dataset = split["train"], split["test"]
Listing 8-13: Splitting the training and validation datasets
This code splits the "train" portion of the dataset into a training
dataset (80 percent) and a validation dataset (20 percent). To retain the
same distribution of labels in both datasets as in the original, the code
uses stratify_by_column="label". This maintains a balanced representation
of classes, meaning that both the training and validation sets will have
the same proportion of positive and negative examples as the original
dataset. Finally, seeding the random-number generator with seed=42
ensures reproducibility of the split. In this way, every time you run the
code, you’ll get the same split into training and validation sets, allowing
you to consistently reproduce your results and debug your code more
effectively. (Instead of 42, you could use any other seed.)
You can now print some example reviews with Listing 8-14.
   import numpy as np
   import pandas as pd
➊ samples = train_dataset.select(np.random.randint(0, len(train_dataset), 3))
   texts, labels = samples["text"], samples["label"]

--- Strana 521 ---
   df = pd.DataFrame({"Text": texts, "Label": labels})
   styled_df = df.style.set_properties(**{"text-align": 
"left"}).set_table_styles(
       [{"selector": "th", "props": [("text-align", "center")]}]
   )
   with pd.option_context("display.max_colwidth", None):
       display(styled_df)
Listing 8-14: Printing some example reviews from the training set
This code selects three samples from the training dataset ➊, creates
a Pandas dataframe, styles it, and displays it. The resulting display
should resemble Figure 8-8.

--- Strana 522 ---
Figure 8-8: Example reviews
In this case, the first two reviews are positive, while the third is
negative.
Preprocessing the Reviews
Before performing sentiment analysis, you must preprocess the reviews
to convert them into a format suitable for the model. As you’ve seen in

--- Strana 523 ---
Project 7A, this requires several steps including cleaning the text,
tokenizing the reviews, building a vocabulary, and transforming the
tokens into numerical representations that the model can interpret. To
do this, you’ll need the tokenize() function from Listing 7-24, which
divides each review into individual words or tokens; the Vocab class from
Listing 7-26, which creates a mapping from these tokens to unique
indices to build the vocabulary; and the build_vocab_from_iterator()
function from Listing 7-27, which constructs the vocabulary by iterating
over the tokenized reviews.
Building a Vocabulary
Once the text has been tokenized and cleaned, the next step is to
convert these tokens into numerical representations. You’ll build a
vocabulary that maps each unique token into an integer. Listing 8-15
shows how to create the vocabulary.
def imdb_iterator(dataset):
    """Iterate over the IMDB dataset."""
    for sample in dataset:
        yield tokenize(sample["text"])
vocab_dict = build_vocab_from_iterator(
    imdb_iterator(train_dataset), specials=["<unk>"], min_freq=10,
)
vocab = Vocab(vocab_dict, unk_token="<unk>")
vocab.set_default_index(vocab(vocab.unk_token))
Listing 8-15: Creating the vocabulary
The vocab object acts as a lookup table, assigning a unique integer to
each token. The vocabulary dictionary is built with the imdb_iterator()
function, which tokenizes each sample in the dataset and is then used to
create vocab. The specials argument adds a special token ("<unk>") to
handle out-of-vocabulary words, ensuring that the model can manage
unseen words effectively.
Preprocessing the Datasets

--- Strana 524 ---
With the vocabulary ready, the next step is to preprocess the datasets by
standardizing, cleaning, tokenizing, and converting tokens into
numerical indices. This is done using the preprocessing() function in
Listing 8-16.
def preprocessing(sample):
    """Preprocess a movie review."""
    sentence = sample["text"]
    tokens = tokenize(unicodedata.normalize("NFC", sentence))
    sequence_of_indices = vocab(tokens)
    sample.update({"sequences": sequence_of_indices}) 
    return sample
train_dataset = train_dataset.map(preprocessing)
val_dataset = val_dataset.map(preprocessing)
test_dataset = dataset["test"].map(preprocessing)
Listing 8-16: Preprocessing the datasets
The preprocessing() function first tokenizes and cleans the text
defined by the key "text" from the sample dictionary and then maps the
tokens to their corresponding numerical indices in the vocabulary. The
resulting indices are added back to the sample as the new key "sequences".
The function is then applied to all elements in the training, validation,
and test datasets.
Defining the Data Loaders
Before training the model, data loaders must be defined to supply the
training, validation, and test data during both training and evaluation.
An important consideration is that the input consists of sentences of
varying lengths. In the seq2seq model, you used padding to make the
sequence lengths consistent. In this example, however, the sequences in
a batch will be concatenated into a single, long sequence instead of
being padded. This approach requires the generation of batch indices that
specify which parts of the concatenated sequence correspond to each
individual sequence in the batch. During the attention mechanism,
these batch indices are used to create a mask, ensuring that tokens from

--- Strana 525 ---
one sequence don’t attend to tokens from another. This allows each
sequence to be processed independently while maintaining the
efficiency of batch processing.
Listing 8-17 provides the implementation.
from torch.utils.data import DataLoader
from torch_geometric.data import Data
def collate(batch_of_sequences):
    """Prepare a batch of sequences for the model to process."""
    sequences, labels, batch_indices = [], [], []
    for batch_index, sample in enumerate(batch_of_sequences):
        sequence = torch.tensor(sample["sequences"])
        sequences.append(sequence)
        batch_indices.append(torch.ones_like(sequence, dtype=torch.long) 
                             * batch_index)
        label = torch.tensor(sample["label"])
        labels.append(label)
    return Data(sequences=torch.cat(sequences), 
                batch_indices=torch.cat(batch_indices),
                y=torch.tensor(labels).float())
train_dataloader = \
    DataLoader(train_dataset, batch_size=8, shuffle=True, collate_fn=collate)
val_dataloader = \
    DataLoader(val_dataset, batch_size=8, shuffle=False, collate_fn=collate)
test_dataloader = \
    DataLoader(test_dataset, batch_size=8, shuffle=False, collate_fn=collate)
Listing 8-17: Creating the data loaders
The code first defines the collate() function, which preprocesses
batches of sequences. Its input is a list of dictionaries, each containing
an input sequence (sample["sequences"]) and a label (sample["label"]). The
function converts each sequence and label to a tensor and appends them
to the sequences and labels lists.
The batch_indices list is created to indicate which tokens belong to
which sequence by assigning a batch index to each token. This is

--- Strana 526 ---
achieved by multiplying a tensor of 1s, which matches the shape of
sequence, by the current batch index. The function then concatenates the
sequences, batch indices, and labels into a single Data object and returns
it.
Finally, the data loaders for the training, validation, and test datasets
are created by passing the collate() function to the collate_fn argument of
PyTorch’s DataLoader class, which specifies how the data points in a batch
should be combined for processing.
Building an Encoder-Only Transformer
You’ll now implement an encoder-only transformer, building each
element step-by-step and assembling them into a model class.
Adding Masking to the Multi-Head Attention Layer
As a starting point for the multi-head attention layer, you’ll use the code
implemented in Listing 8-11. Since the data loader is collating
sequences in the same batch, you’ll first modify the data loader to also
accept batch indices as inputs and use them for masking.
Listing 8-18 extends the implementation of the MultiHeadAttention
class in Listing 8-11 to include masking functionality.
--snip--
class MultiHeadAttentionLayer(dl.DeeplayModule):
    """"Multi-head attention layer with masking."""
    --snip--
 
    def forward(self, in_sequence, batch_indices):
        --snip--
        attn_scores = (torch.matmul(Q, K.transpose(-2, -1)) 
                       / (self.head_dim ** 0.5))
        attn_mask = torch.eq(batch_indices.unsqueeze(1), 
                             batch_indices.unsqueeze(0))
     ➊ attn_mask = attn_mask.unsqueeze(0)
        attn_scores = attn_scores.masked_fill(attn_mask == False, 
                                              float("-inf"))

--- Strana 527 ---
        attn_weights = torch.nn.functional.soft.softmax(attn_scores, dim=-1)
        --snip--
Listing 8-18: The class to add masking to the multi-head attention layer (by modifying
Listing 8-11)
This updated MultiHeadAttentionLayer() class introduces masking to
ensure that tokens from different sequences don’t influence one another.
In the forward() method, an additional tensor (batch_indices) is used to
determine which tokens belong to the same sequence.
The mask is generated using torch.eq(), which produces a square
matrix indicating valid attention positions based on the sequence
assignments. The mask is expanded to include a batch dimension ➊,
giving it the shape (1, len(in_sequence), len(in_sequence)), matching the
attention scores. The mask is used to set attn_scores for unrelated tokens
to negative infinity (float("-inf")), ensuring that they receive zero
attention after applying softmax().
This prevents unintended information flow between different
sequences in the batch and ensures that each sequence is processed
independently, preserving context and maintaining the integrity of
attention operations.
Implementing a Transformer Encoder Layer
Next, you’ll combine the multi-head attention layer with a feed-forward
neural network to construct the transformer encoder layer.
The multi-head attention layer processes the input sequence by
enabling each token to attend to others, capturing relationships across
the sequence. A residual connection is then applied to add features from
the original input to the attention output, followed by layer
normalization to ensure stability.
The feed-forward network further refines the representation by
applying linear transformations and activation functions, followed by
another residual connection and normalization. This process enriches
each token representation with meaningful contextual information.

--- Strana 528 ---
Now implement the transformer encoder layer as shown in Listing
8-19.
from torch_geometric.nn.norm import LayerNorm
class TransformerEncoderLayer(dl.DeeplayModule):
    """Transformer encoder layer."""
 
    def __init__(self, num_features, num_heads, feedforward_dim, dropout=0.0):
        """Initialize transformer encoder layer."""
        super().__init__()
        self.self_attn = MultiHeadAttentionLayer(num_features, num_heads)
        self.attn_dropout = dl.Layer(torch.nn.Dropout, dropout) 
        self.attn_skip = dl.Add() 
        self.attn_norm = dl.Layer(LayerNorm, num_features, eps=1e-6)
        self.feedforward = dl.Sequential(
            dl.Layer(torch.nn.Linear, num_features, feedforward_dim),
            dl.Layer(torch.nn.ReLU),
            dl.Layer(torch.nn.Linear, feedforward_dim, num_features),
        )
        self.feedforward_dropout = dl.Layer(torch.nn.Dropout, dropout) 
        self.feedforward_skip = dl.Add() 
        self.feedforward_norm = dl.Layer(LayerNorm, num_features, eps=1e-6)
    def forward(self, in_sequence, batch_indices):
        """Refine sequence via attention and feedforward layers."""
     ➊ attns = self.self_attn(in_sequence, batch_indices)
     ➋ attns = self.attn_dropout(attns)
     ➌ attns = self.attn_skip(in_sequence, attns)
     ➍ attns = self.attn_norm(attns, batch_indices)
     ➎ out_sequence = self.feedforward(attns)
     ➏ out_sequence = self.feedforward_dropout(out_sequence)
     ➐ out_sequence = self.feedforward_skip(attns, out_sequence)
     ➑ out_sequence = self.feedforward_norm(out_sequence, batch_indices)

--- Strana 529 ---
     
        return out_sequence
Listing 8-19: The class to implement a transformer encoder layer
The forward() method of this class first applies multi-head attention
on the input sequences, in_sequence ➊. The method applies dropout to
the attention output ➋, which randomly deactivates a fraction of
neurons during training to prevent overfitting and help the model
generalize better. The method adds the original input, in_sequence, to the
dropout-adjusted attention output, implementing a residual connection
➌. The method normalizes the output of the residual connection with
layer normalization ➍.
Next, forward() passes the normalized attention output through the
feed-forward network ➎. Dropout is applied to the feedforward
network’s output ➏. The feed-forward output is added to the original
attention output, creating another residual connection ➐. Finally, the
final output is normalized with layer normalization ➑.
The final output, out_sequence, is a set of sequences obtained by
enriching the input sequences with contextual information, producing a
comprehensive representation that is crucial for the subsequent tasks.
Building a Transformer Encoder Model
As in a seq2seq model, the input is processed by an embedding layer
that converts the sparse categorical data of the input sequences into a
dense numerical format, making it more suitable for neural network
processing.
Unlike traditional sequence models, such as recurrent neural
networks, which inherently understand sequence order, transformers
treat inputs as unordered sets. To address this, transformers use positional
encodings, which assign each token a unique positional marker. This
allows the model to incorporate the order of tokens, which is crucial for
understanding their relationships and the overall meaning of a
sequence.

--- Strana 530 ---
NOTE
Positional encodings are generated using a combination of sine and
cosine functions of different frequencies. For each position i in the
sequence and each dimension j of the positional encoding vector, the
encoding is defined as
where dm is the dimension of the positional encoding vector. The
oscillatory patterns created by the sine and cosine functions permit the
encoding values to change across positions for individual dimensions.
The encoded input is thus passed to a stack of transformer encoder
layers with a dense top.
You can implement the transformer encoder model with the class
shown in Listing 8-20.
class TransformerEncoderModel(dl.DeeplayModule):
    """Transformer encoder model."""
 
    def __init__(self, vocab_size, num_features, num_heads, feedforward_dim,
                 num_layers, out_dim, dropout=0.0):
        """Initialize transformer encoder model."""
        super().__init__()
        self.num_features = num_features
        self.embedding = dl.Layer(torch.nn.Embedding, vocab_size, num_features)
     
        self.pos_encoder = dl.IndexedPositionalEmbedding(num_features)
        self.pos_encoder.dropout.configure(p=dropout)
        self.transformer_block = dl.LayerList()
        for _ in range(num_layers):
PEi,2j = sin (
i
100002j/dm )
PEi,2j+1 = cos (
i
100002j/dm )

--- Strana 531 ---
            self.transformer_block.append(TransformerEncoderLayer(
                num_features, num_heads, feedforward_dim, dropout=dropout,
            ))
         
        self.out_block = dl.Sequential(
            dl.Layer(torch.nn.Dropout, dropout),
            dl.Layer(torch.nn.Linear, num_features, num_features // 2), 
            dl.Layer(torch.nn.ReLU),
            dl.Layer(torch.nn.Linear, num_features // 2, out_dim), 
            dl.Layer(torch.nn.Sigmoid),
        )
    def forward(self, dict):
        """Predict sentiment of movie reviews."""
        in_sequence, batch_indices = dict["sequences"], dict["batch_indices"]
     ➊ embeddings = self.embedding(in_sequence) * self.num_features ** 0.5
     ➋ pos_embeddings = self.pos_encoder(embeddings, batch_indices)
     
        out_sequence = pos_embeddings
        for transformer_layer in self.transformer_block:
         ➌ out_sequence = transformer_layer(out_sequence, batch_indices)
        batch_size = torch.max(batch_indices) + 1
        aggregates = torch.zeros(batch_size, self.num_features, 
                                 device=out_sequence.device) 
     ➍ for batch_index in torch.unique(batch_indices):
            mask =  batch_indices == batch_index
            aggregates[batch_index] = out_sequence[mask].mean(dim=0)
     ➎ pred_sentiment = self.out_block(aggregates).squeeze()
        return pred_sentiment
Listing 8-20: The class to implement a transformer encoder model
This class takes input sequences and batch indices, applies
embedding and positional encoding, processes them through multiple
transformer layers, and then aggregates each sequence’s information to
predict the sentiment of the reviews.

--- Strana 532 ---
The forward() method of this class accepts a dictionary as input,
which includes two key components: dict["sequences"] containing the
input sequences, and dict["batch_indices"] containing the corresponding
batch indices.
Initially, the embedding layer maps each token’s numerical value to a
unique vector in a high-dimensional space ➊ defined by the specified
embedding dimension (num_features). The model then applies positional
encoding ➋ to incorporate information about the order of tokens within
each sequence (see the note on page 353). This process adds a unique
vector to each token embedding based on its position in the sequence,
ensuring that the model captures the sequential nature of the data. The
core of the model comprises a stack of transformer encoder layers that
process the sequence in several iterations ➌. Each layer takes the output
of the previous layer, allowing the attention mechanisms and feed-
forward neural networks to identify complex relationships between
tokens.
Then the model computes an aggregate representation for each
sequence in the batch ➍. This is achieved by averaging the output
vectors across the sequence length, thereby condensing each sequence
into a single vector that captures the essence of the entire sequence.
Finally, the aggregated sequence representations are passed through
a series of dense layers with nonlinear activations and dropouts ➎,
which transform the enriched representations into a final prediction.
This prediction indicates whether the input movie reviews are positive
or negative, thus completing the sentiment analysis.
You’re finally ready to instantiate your transformer encoder model
with Listing 8-21.
model = TransformerEncoderModel(
    vocab_size=len(vocab), num_features=300, num_heads=12, feedforward_dim=512,
    num_layers=4, out_dim=1, dropout=0.1,
).create()
Listing 8-21: Instantiating the transformer encoder model
You can print out the details of this model with print(model).

--- Strana 533 ---
Although the model is ready for training, incorporating pretrained
embeddings can significantly enhance its performance. Pretrained
embeddings are rich word representations derived from large text
corpora. Often used to initialize the embedding layer, these pretrained
embeddings help the model start with a better understanding of the
input, which then leads to faster convergence and improved
generalization. As you’ve already seen in Project 7A and in the first
section of this chapter, GloVe provides some of the most popular
pretrained embeddings. You downloaded them previously with Listing
7-41, and now you can use them to initialize the model’s embedding
layer with Listing 8-22.
   glove_file = os.path.join(glove_folder, "glove.42B.300d.txt")
   glove_embed, embed_dim = load_glove_embeddings(glove_file), 300
➊ model.embedding.weight.data = \
       get_glove_embeddings(vocab.get_tokens(), glove_embed, embed_dim)
   model.embedding.weight.requires_grad = False
Listing 8-22: Adding the pretrained embeddings
This code uses the load_glove_embeddings() function (Listing 7-42) to
load the 300-dimensional GloVe embeddings into the glove_embed
dictionary. Next, the code initializes the model’s embedding layer with
these pretrained embeddings by calling the get_glove_embeddings() function
(Listing 7-43), which creates an embedding matrix corresponding to the
vocabulary tokens retrieved using vocab.get_tokens(). The code then
replaces the random initial weights with the GloVe embeddings ➊.
Finally, the code freezes the embedding layer during training,
preventing the pretrained embeddings from being updated and ensuring
that the model uses these rich word representations without altering
them.
Training the Model
You can now compile the model as shown in Listing 8-23.

--- Strana 534 ---
classifier = dl.BinaryClassifier(
    model=model, optimizer=dl.AdamW(lr=1e-4),
).create()
Listing 8-23: Compiling the model
This code compiles the model with the AdamW optimizer and the
default binary cross-entropy loss function.
Next, you’ll create a trainer and train the model, using Listing 8-24.
trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=5)
trainer.fit(classifier, train_dataloader, val_dataloader)
Listing 8-24: Training the model
This code trains the model for five epochs.
Evaluating the Trained Model
After training, you can evaluate the model on the test set with Listing 8-
25.
test_results = trainer.test(classifier, test_dataloader)
Listing 8-25: Evaluating the model
The model should achieve around 87 percent accuracy on the test
set, demonstrating the effectiveness of transformers for NLP tasks.
You can also display the model’s predictions for a few test reviews,
using Listing 8-26.
import random
classifier.model.eval()
texts, labels, predictions = [], [], []
for idx in random.sample(range(len(test_dataset)), 3):
    sample = test_dataset[idx]
    input_sequence = torch.tensor(vocab(tokenize(sample["text"]))).long()
    test_input = {
        "sequences": input_sequence,

--- Strana 535 ---
        "batch_indices": torch.zeros_like(input_sequence, dtype=torch.long),
    }
    probability = classifier.model(test_input)
    prediction = probability > 0.5
 
    texts.append(sample["text"])
    labels.append(sample["label"])
    predictions.append(prediction.item() * 1)
df = pd.DataFrame({"text": texts, "label": labels, "prediction": predictions})
styled_df = df.style.set_properties(**{"text-align": "left"}).set_table_styles(
    [{"selector": "th", "props": [("text-align", "center")]}]
)
with pd.option_context("display.max_colwidth", None):
    display(styled_df)
Listing 8-26: Displaying the model’s predictions on some reviews
The output should be similar to Figure 8-9.

--- Strana 536 ---
Figure 8-9: The example reviews with model predictions
The model’s performance can be further improved by fine-tuning its
hyperparameters, increasing training epochs, or applying advanced
techniques like learning rate schedules, gradient clipping, and early
stopping.
NOTE

--- Strana 537 ---
Code Example 8-B, “Predicting Sentiment Using a Transformer,” is
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate 
to 
the 
Ch08_Attention 
folder 
and 
then
ec08_B_transformer. The transformer.ipynb notebook provides a
complete code example that uses an encoder-only transformer to predict
the sentiment of movie reviews.
Project 8C: Classifying Images with a Vision
Transformer
Historically, convolutional neural networks, introduced in Chapter 3,
have dominated image-analysis tasks. However, inspired by the success
of transformers in NLP, Google Research developed the vision
transformer (ViT) in 2020, marking a breakthrough in image
interpretation. ViT demonstrated that a model originally designed for
text could excel in visual domains as well. In fact, it has outperformed
traditional convolutional methods in various image-classification
benchmarks, showcasing exceptional scalability and generalization.
The success of ViT has led to its adoption in cutting-edge
applications such as image segmentation (dividing an image into
meaningful regions for easier analysis) and multimodal learning
(integrating and processing information from multiple sources like text,
images, and audio).
This project introduces the ViT model, explains its architecture, and
demonstrates its use in image-classification tasks. You’ll begin by
exploring the CIFAR-10 dataset, which contains images categorized
into classes like Cats and Cars. You’ll learn how to preprocess these
images, build the ViT model, and train it. After noting the unimpressive
results of training ViT on small datasets, you’ll apply CutMix
augmentation to enhance performance. Finally, you’ll observe how
powerful ViT can be when pretrained on larger datasets.

--- Strana 538 ---
Using the CIFAR-10 Dataset
The CIFAR-10 dataset will serve as the primary playground for
experimenting with ViT. CIFAR-10 contains 60,000 full-color images,
each 32×32 pixels, divided across 10 distinct classes, with each class
containing 6,000 images. The dataset is split into a training set of
50,000 images and a test set of 10,000 images.
Use Listing 8-27 to download and prepare the data.
from torchvision import datasets
train_val_dataset = datasets.CIFAR10(root="./data", train=True, download=True)
test_dataset = datasets.CIFAR10(root="./data", train=False, download=True)
Listing 8-27: Preparing the CIFAR-10 datasets
This script initializes the CIFAR-10 training and test datasets via
PyTorch’s datasets.CIFAR10 class. The train parameter specifies whether to
load the training or test dataset, and the download option ensures that the
data is downloaded if not already present.
You can visualize some images from the CIFAR-10 dataset by using
the plot_class_examples() function in Listing 8-28.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
def plot_class_examples(dataset, n_images):
    """Plot the first images for each class in the dataset."""
    classes = dataset.classes
    class_img_dict = {c: [] for c in range(len(classes))}
    for i, (_, label) in enumerate(dataset):
        if all(len(v) == n_images for v in class_img_dict.values()): 
         ➊ break
        if len(class_img_dict[label]) < n_images: 
         ➋ class_img_dict[label].append(i)
 
    fig, axs = plt.subplots(n_images, len(classes), figsize=(len(classes), 3))
    for class_idx, img_indices in class_img_dict.items():
        for j, img_index in enumerate(img_indices):
            img = dataset[img_index][0]

--- Strana 539 ---
            axs[j, class_idx].imshow(img)
            axs[j, class_idx].set(xticks=[], yticks=[])
            if j == 0: 
                axs[j, class_idx].set_title(classes[class_idx], size="medium")
    plt.show()
Listing 8-28: Visualizing the first CIFAR-10 images for each class
This function displays the first n_images examples for each CIFAR-10
class in the dataset. The function starts by extracting the classes from the
dataset and initializing a dictionary to store image indices for each class.
The function then iterates over the dataset, collecting indices until it
has enough examples for each class ➊. If a class still needs more images,
the function adds the current index to its dictionary of indices ➋. Once
enough images are collected, the function retrieves and formats the
images, plotting them in the appropriate subplots.
You can run the function and visualize three images per class as
follows:
plot_class_examples(train_val_dataset, n_images=3)
Figure 8-10 shows the result.
Figure 8-10: The example images from the CIFAR-10 dataset
The visualization showcases the diversity of categories in the
CIFAR-10 dataset, ranging from vehicles like trucks and ships to
animals such as horses, frogs, and dogs. This diversity, along with

--- Strana 540 ---
variations in color, orientation, and context, highlights the challenge of
classifying these images.
Data Preprocessing
To ensure effective training and good generalization to unseen data, you
need to partition the CIFAR-10 training dataset into training and
validation subsets, since it originally lacks a separate validation set. You
can do this with Listing 8-29.
   import copy, torch
   from torch.utils.data import Subset
➊ indices = torch.randperm(len(train_val_dataset)).tolist()
   split = int(len(train_val_dataset) * 0.20)
   train_indices, val_indices = indices[split:], indices[:split]
   train_dataset = Subset(copy.deepcopy(train_val_dataset), train_indices)
   val_dataset = Subset(copy.deepcopy(train_val_dataset), val_indices)
Listing 8-29: Splitting the training and validation datasets
This code shuffles the dataset indices ➊, uses a validation ratio of 20
percent to split them, and creates the training and validation subsets via
PyTorch’s Subset class. The copy.deepcopy() function ensures that the two
subsets are independent.
To help the model generalize better and prevent overfitting, you’ll
apply data augmentation techniques to the training dataset, as shown in
Listing 8-30.
from torchvision import transforms
train_transform = transforms.Compose([
 ➊ transforms.RandomCrop(32, padding=4),
 ➋ transforms.RandomHorizontalFlip(), transforms.ToTensor(),
 ➌ transforms.Normalize(mean=[0.49139968, 0.48215841, 0.44653091], 
                         std=[0.24703223, 0.24348513, 0.26158784]),

--- Strana 541 ---
])
train_dataset.dataset.transform = train_transform
Listing 8-30: Preprocessing the training dataset
This transformation augments the training data by random cropping
with padding ➊ and horizontal flipping ➋. The code then converts the
data to tensors and normalizes them by using the mean and standard
deviation values for each channel of the training set ➌.
For the validation dataset, only tensor conversion and normalization
are performed to ensure evaluation accuracy, as shown in Listing 8-31.
val_transform = transforms.Compose([
    transforms.ToTensor(),
    transforms.Normalize(mean=[0.49139968, 0.48215841, 0.44653091], 
                         std=[0.24703223, 0.24348513, 0.26158784]),
])
val_dataset.dataset.transform = val_transform
Listing 8-31: Preprocessing the validation dataset
Finally, define the data loaders to feed the training and validation
data to the model, as detailed in Listing 8-32.
import deeplay as dl
train_loader = dl.DataLoader(train_dataset, batch_size=128, shuffle=True)
val_loader = dl.DataLoader(val_dataset, batch_size=128, shuffle=False)
Listing 8-32: Defining the data loaders
The batch size is set to 128 for both data loaders, while shuffling is
applied only to the training data.
Building the ViT Model
With the data prepared, you can define the ViT model. Figure 8-11
illustrates the ViT architecture.

--- Strana 542 ---
Figure 8-11: The ViT architecture
The ViT architecture consists of four components that work
together to process and classify images.
First, image patch embeddings divide the input image into smaller,
fixed-size, nonoverlapping patches from which the model can learn local
features. Each patch is then flattened and passed through a linear
transformation (see the following note). To capture global information
about the image, the ViT appends a learnable class token to the patch
embeddings. This token doesn’t directly correspond to any individual
patch; instead, it symbolizes the collective image and its relationships
with the embeddings, providing a comprehensive view during
classification.
Second, positional encodings are added to the patch embeddings to
provide spatial context, ensuring that the model understands the layout
and position of each patch. These positional encodings are randomly
initialized and learned during training.
Third, the transformer encoder serves as the core of the model. It
consists of multiple layers of transformer blocks, each with a multi-head
self-attention mechanism and a feed-forward neural network. The
multi-head attention allows the model to attend to different parts of the
image simultaneously, capturing both local and global information. This
contrasts with convolutional neural networks, which have a fixed

--- Strana 543 ---
receptive field and may struggle with capturing long-range
dependencies.
Fourth, the classification head takes the output class token from the
transformer encoder and passes it through a dense top neural network to
predict the image class.
You can instantiate the ViT model with Listing 8-33.
vit = dl.ViT(in_channels=3, image_size=32, patch_size=4, 
             hidden_features=[384,] * 7, out_features=10, num_heads=12)
Listing 8-33: Instantiating the ViT model
The ViT class from Deeplay manages the ViT architecture,
initializing the model components, including the patch embeddings,
positional encodings, transformer encoder, and classification head. The
key parameters are as follows: in_channels, the number of input channels
in the image, which is three (RGB) for the CIFAR-10 dataset; image_size,
the size of the input image, which is 32×32 pixels for the CIFAR-10
dataset; patch_size, the size of the image patches, which is set to 4,
resulting in a total of 64 patches of size 4×4; hidden_features, the number
and size of the hidden layers in the transformer encoder (here, seven
transformer layers, each with a hidden size of 384 channels); out_features,
the number of classes in the dataset, which is 10 for CIFAR-10; and
num_heads, the number of attention heads in the multi-head self-attention
mechanism, here set to 12.
You can visualize the ViT architecture by executing print(vit).
NOTE
When visualizing the ViT architecture, you’ll notice that the patch
embedder uses a convolutional layer with a kernel size and stride
equal to the patch size. This is a more efficient alternative to explicitly
extracting patches, flattening them, and applying a linear
transformation. By using this approach, the convolutional layer
directly captures and embeds patches as it slides over the image. The
kernel size defines the patch size, while the stride ensures that the
patches are nonoverlapping. After applying the convolution, the

--- Strana 544 ---
resulting feature map is equivalent to the output produced by
manually extracting and linearly embedding patches. This method
improves computational efficiency, while also adding flexibility,
allowing the model to easily adapt to different image resolutions and
patch configurations.
Training and Evaluating the ViT Model
With the images preprocessed and the ViT model initialized, you can
begin training. Listing 8-34 sets up a classifier, specifies the optimizer,
and creates a trainer object.
classifier = dl.Classifier(
    model=vit, num_classes=10,
    optimizer=dl.Adam(lr=1e-3, weight_decay=5e-5, betas=(0.9, 0.999)),
).build()
Listing 8-34: Defining the classifier
The classifier uses the Adam optimizer with a learning rate of 10–3
and a weight decay of 5 × 10–5 for regularization. The betas parameter
sets the coefficients for computing running averages of the gradient and
its square. By default, the loss function used is CrossEntropyLoss.
Now you can train the model and visualize the training and
validation loss and accuracy:
trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=100)
trainer.fit(classifier, train_loader, val_loader)
trainer.history.plot();
Figure 8-12 shows the resulting plot.

--- Strana 545 ---
Figure 8-12: The training and validation loss and multiclass accuracy
The ViT model achieves a validation accuracy of approximately 70
percent, where it hits a ceiling.
To evaluate the model on the test dataset, you’ll first define the test
data loader, as shown in Listing 8-35.
test_dataset.transform = val_transform
test_loader = dl.DataLoader(test_dataset, batch_size=128, shuffle=False)
Listing 8-35: Defining the test data loader
The test data uses the same preprocessing as the validation set. You
can now apply the trained model to the test data:
trainer.test(classifier, test_loader)
Running the classifier on the test dataset should yield an accuracy
similar to that of the validation set. While this performance is
reasonable, it’s still below that of state-of-the-art convolutional neural
networks. In the next section, you’ll see how to fine-tune the ViT model
to improve its performance.
Improving the ViT Model with CutMix
Compared to convolutional neural networks, ViT models lack strong
inductive biases. Inductive biases, which are the assumptions a model
makes about the structure of the data, help the model generalize

--- Strana 546 ---
effectively. Convolutional neural networks inherently assume spatial
relationships in images, recognizing that nearby pixels are more related
than distant ones. Then, early layers detect local patterns like edges and
textures, while deeper layers combine these features into higher-order
structures, as you’ve seen in Chapter 3.
Without these built-in inductive biases, ViTs need a substantial
amount of data to learn effectively. Unlike convolutional neural
networks, which are designed to capture spatial locality and translation
invariance from the start, ViTs must learn these relationships from
scratch by interpreting images as sequences of patches. Therefore, ViTs
generally require much larger datasets to achieve strong performance.
The CIFAR-10 dataset, with only 60,000 images, is quite small
compared to larger datasets like ImageNet, which contains over 14
million images and is often used to train ViTs to state-of-the-art
performance.
To address this challenge and help ViTs learn spatial relationships
more effectively from smaller datasets, researchers have developed
techniques such as CutMix, which you’ll implement next.
Implementing CutMix
CutMix is a data augmentation technique that helps the model learn and
integrate local features within images, enhancing its ability to generalize
and handle variations in input data. Inspired by the concept of Mixup,
which blends two images by averaging their pixels, CutMix combines
patches from two different images rather than blending their entire
content.
In a typical CutMix augmentation, a random patch from one image
is cut and pasted onto another image, while the labels are mixed
proportionally to the area of the patches. This creates a composite
training example containing features from both images, with a mixed
label that reflects this composition. The primary advantage of this
approach is to force the model to focus on less dominant features,
promoting a deeper and more robust understanding of spatial
relationships. Furthermore, this increases resiliency to variations in the

--- Strana 547 ---
data, such as occlusions or changes in background. Listing 8-36
implements the CutMix class.
import numpy as np
class CutMix():
    """CutMix."""
    def __init__(self, size, beta):
        """Initialize CutMix."""
        self.size, self.beta = size, beta
    def __call__(self, batch):
        """Execute CutMix."""
        imgs, labels = batch
        rand_idx = torch.randperm(imgs.size(0))
        rand_imgs, rand_labels = imgs[rand_idx], labels[rand_idx]
     ➊ augmented_imgs = imgs.clone()
     
        r_x = np.random.uniform(0, self.size)
        r_y = np.random.uniform(0, self.size)
     ➋ initial_mix_ratio = np.random.beta(self.beta, self.beta)
        r_w = self.size * np.sqrt(1 - initial_mix_ratio)
        r_h = self.size * np.sqrt(1 - initial_mix_ratio)
        x1 = np.clip(int(r_x - r_w // 2), a_min=0, a_max=self.size)
        x2 = np.clip(int(r_x + r_w // 2), a_min=0, a_max=self.size)
        y1 = np.clip(int(r_y - r_h // 2), a_min=0, a_max=self.size)
        y2 = np.clip(int(r_y + r_h // 2), a_min=0, a_max=self.size)
     ➌ augmented_imgs[:, :, y1:y2, x1:x2] = rand_imgs[:, :, y1:y2, x1:x2]
     ➍ final_mix_ratio = 1 - ((x2 - x1) * (y2 - y1) / (self.size ** 2))
        return augmented_imgs, labels, rand_labels, final_mix_ratio
Listing 8-36: The class implementing CutMix
The CutMix class is initialized with two parameters: size, specifying
the dimensions of the images, and beta, a hyperparameter for the Beta

--- Strana 548 ---
distribution that determines the mixing coefficient (see the note on page
366). The mixing coefficient determines the proportion of the area from
the source image that will be mixed into the target image.
The __call__() method takes a batch of images and labels as input
and shuffles them, creating rand_imgs and rand_labels. The method also
creates a cloned copy of the original images to preserve the original
batch ➊. Next, the method samples some random coordinates (r_x, r_y)
from a uniform distribution, and an initial mixing coefficient
(initial_mix_ratio) from a Beta distribution ➋, to determine the patch
dimensions (r_w, r_h). Then the method clips the coordinates for the
patch boundaries (x1, x2, y1, y2) to ensure that they stay within the image
dimensions. Finally, the method modifies the cloned images by
replacing the corresponding patch with a patch from the shuffled
images ➌, and recalculates the mixing coefficients based on the patch
area to reflect the proportion of the image that was replaced ➍. The
method returns the augmented images, original labels, shuffled labels,
and adjusted mixing coefficient (final_mix_ratio).
NOTE
The Beta distribution, a probability distribution defined on the
interval [0, 1], is commonly used to model the behavior of random
variables constrained within a fixed range, like proportions or
probabilities. The Beta distribution’s shape can be left-skewed, right-
skewed, or symmetric, depending on the value of its two shape
parameters, making it highly flexible for various modeling scenarios.
Listing 8-37 visualizes the CutMix augmentation applied to a
random pair of images from the training dataset.
   import random
   from itertools import chain
   def create_batch(samples):
       """Create batch."""
       images, labels = zip(*samples)

--- Strana 549 ---
       return torch.stack(images), torch.tensor(labels)
   def normalize_image(image):
       """Normalize image."""
       mean = torch.tensor([0.49139968, 0.48215841, 0.44653091]).view(3, 1, 1)
       std = torch.tensor([0.24703223, 0.24348513, 0.26158784]).view(3, 1, 1)
       return image * std + mean
➊ samples = random.choices(train_dataset, k=2)
   batch = create_batch(samples)
   augmented_imgs, *_, mix_ratio = CutMix(size=32, beta=1.0)(batch)
   fig, axs = plt.subplots(1, 4, figsize=(12, 3))
   for i, img in enumerate(chain(batch[0], augmented_imgs)):
       axs[i].imshow(normalize_image(img).permute(1, 2, 0))
       axs[i].set_title("Original" if i < 2 else f"CutMix {mix_ratio:.2f}")
       axs[i].axis("off")
   plt.show()
Listing 8-37: Displaying an example of CutMix augmentation
This code selects two random images from the training dataset ➊.
The create_batch() function creates a batch of images and labels from the
selection, and the CutMix() class is applied to generate the augmented
images and labels. The original and augmented images are displayed
side by side for comparison. The resulting image should be similar to
Figure 8-13.
Figure 8-13: The original and CutMix-augmented images

--- Strana 550 ---
The first two images are the originals from the CIFAR-10 dataset,
while the next two show the result of CutMix, with patches exchanged
between the two images. The CutMix value shows the proportion of
each image in the mix. The figure illustrates how CutMix enriches the
dataset, making the model more robust against variations and mixed
information.
Note that since the shuffle operation may place a batch of images in
its original order, the mixed images might sometimes appear identical to
the original ones. If this occurs, rerun Listing 8-37.
Training with CutMix
To train the model with CutMix, you need to define the CutMixClassifier()
class, which extends the functionality of Classifier() from Listing 8-34 to
incorporate the CutMix augmentation, as shown in Listing 8-38.
from torch.optim.lr_scheduler import CosineAnnealingLR
from warmup_scheduler import GradualWarmupScheduler as GradualWarmup
class CutMixClassifier(dl.Classifier):
    """Classifier with CutMix."""
    def __init__(self, model, size=32, beta=1.0, **kwargs):
        """Initialize classifier with CutMix."""
        super().__init__(model, **kwargs)
        self.cutmix = CutMix(size=size, beta=beta)
    def training_step(self, batch, batch_idx):
        """Perform one training step."""
     ➊ augmented_imgs, labels, rand_labels, mix_ratio = self.cutmix(batch)
     ➋ pred_labels = self.model(augmented_imgs)
     ➌ loss = (mix_ratio * self.loss(pred_labels, labels) 
                + (1 - mix_ratio) * self.loss(pred_labels, rand_labels))
        self.log("train_loss", loss, on_step=True, on_epoch=True,
                 prog_bar=True, logger=True)
        self.log_metrics("train", pred_labels, labels, on_step=True, 
                         on_epoch=True, prog_bar=True, logger=True)

--- Strana 551 ---
        return loss
    def configure_optimizers(self):
        """Configure optimizers."""
        optimizer = super().configure_optimizers()
     ➍ base_scheduler = CosineAnnealingLR(optimizer, T_max=200, eta_min=1e-5)
     ➎ scheduler = GradualWarmup(optimizer, multiplier=1.0, total_epoch=5, 
                                  after_scheduler=base_scheduler)
        return {"optimizer": optimizer,
                "lr_scheduler": {"scheduler": scheduler, "interval": "epoch"}}
Listing 8-38: The class implementing a classifier with CutMix
During training, the classifier applies CutMix augmentation to the
input batch, generating augmented images, original labels, shuffled
labels, and a mixing coefficient (mix_ratio) ➊. The model processes the
augmented images ➋, and the loss is calculated as a weighted sum of the
losses from the original and shuffled labels, with weights mix_ratio and 1
- mix_ratio proportional to the area of each image in the augmented mix
➌.
To enhance training performance, the code implements an annealing
schedule that adjusts the learning rate during training, promoting
smooth convergence while avoiding overshooting. In this
implementation, the base scheduler is CosineAnnealingLR, which
progressively decreases the learning rate following a cosine curve ➍.
Before applying the cosine schedule, a warm-up phase using
GradualWarmupScheduler gradually increases the learning rate from a low
initial value over the first five epochs ➎. This combination helps
stabilize the training process in the initial stages and then adaptively
reduce the learning rate, effectively balancing exploration and
convergence for optimal training results.
Now you’ll proceed to train the model via the CutMixClassifier class,
using Listing 8-39.
   vit_cutmix = dl.ViT(in_channels=3, image_size=32, patch_size=4, 
                       hidden_features=[384,] * 7, out_features=10, num_heads=12)
➊ vit_cutmix[..., "attention#-1"].log_output("attention_output")

--- Strana 552 ---
   classifier_cutmix = CutMixClassifier(
       model=vit_cutmix, num_classes=10,
       optimizer=dl.Adam(lr=1e-3, weight_decay=5e-5, betas=(0.9, 0.999)),
   ).build()
   trainer_cutmix = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=700)
   trainer_cutmix.fit(classifier_cutmix, train_loader, val_loader)
Listing 8-39: Training the ViT model with CutMix
The model is trained for 700 epochs, giving it sufficient time to
learn from the augmented data and improve its performance. The
log_output() method logs the output of the attention layer in the last
transformer block ➊, allowing you to visualize and interpret the
attention maps generated by the model.
You can now apply the trained model to the test data:
trainer_cutmix.test(classifier_cutmix, test_loader)
With the trained CutMix-augmented model, you should observe a
validation accuracy of approximately 90 percent, significantly higher
than the previous 70 percent.
Visualizing Attention Maps
Attention maps provide valuable insights into which regions of the
image the model focuses on while making predictions, helping you
understand the model’s decision-making process and the areas that most
contribute to its predictions.
Use Listing 8-40 for plotting test images and attention maps,
together with ground-truth and predicted labels.
from skimage.transform import resize
samples = random.choices(test_dataset, k=4)
imgs, labels = create_batch(samples)
classifier_cutmix.model.eval()
output = classifier_cutmix(imgs)

--- Strana 553 ---
preds = torch.argmax(output, dim=1)
attn_maps = \
    classifier_cutmix.logs["attention_output"][1][:, 0, 1:].reshape(4, 8, 8)
fig, axs = plt.subplots(2, 4, figsize=(12, 6))
for i, (img, label, pred, attn_map) in enumerate(
    zip(imgs, labels, preds, attn_maps)
):
    img = normalize_image(img).detach().permute(1, 2, 0)
    axs[0, i].imshow(img)
    axs[0, i].set_title(f"Label: {test_dataset.classes[label]}\n"
                        + f"Prediction: {test_dataset.classes[pred]}")
    axs[0, i].axis("off")
    resized_attn_map = resize(attn_map.detach().numpy(), (32, 32), 
                              anti_aliasing=True)
    axs[1, i].imshow(img)
    axs[1, i].imshow(resized_attn_map, cmap="hot", alpha=0.5)
    axs[1, i].set_title("Attention Map")
    axs[1, i].axis("off")
plt.show()
Listing 8-40: Visualizing the attention maps
The resulting images should look similar to Figure 8-14.

--- Strana 554 ---
Figure 8-14: The CIFAR-10 images (top) and the attention maps from the model trained
with CutMix (bottom)
The top row shows the original images along with their ground-
truth and predicted labels. The bottom row displays the same images
with their respective attention maps overlaid, highlighting the regions
that the model focused on. Brighter regions in the attention map
indicate higher attention scores, providing insights into the most
influential features in the model’s decision.
Using a Pretrained ViT Model
The ViT model trained from scratch achieved a 90 percent accuracy,
comparable to convolutional neural networks on CIFAR-10. However,
ViT models truly excel when trained on large-scale datasets like
ImageNet, which contains millions of images. Such vast datasets unlock
the model’s full capacity to learn and generalize, often outperforming
convolutional neural networks.
To demonstrate this, you’ll use a ViT model pretrained on the
ImageNet dataset. Listing 8-41 shows how to load the pretrained ViT
model from the Hugging Face Model Hub and append a classification

--- Strana 555 ---
head that maps the features extracted by the ViT to the output classes,
similar to the dense layer used in convolutional models for classification
in Project 3A.
from transformers import ViTModel
class PretrainedViTModel(torch.nn.Module):
    """Pretrained ViT model."""
    def __init__(self, pretrained_model, output_channels):
        """Initialize pretrained ViT model."""
        super().__init__()
     ➊ self.backbone = ViTModel.from_pretrained(pretrained_model)
     ➋ hidden_features = self.backbone.config.hidden_size
     ➌ self.classifier = torch.nn.Linear(hidden_features, output_channels)
    def forward(self, imgs):
        """Perform forward step."""
        features = self.backbone(imgs).last_hidden_state[:, 0]
        return self.classifier(features)
Listing 8-41: The class to use a pretrained ViT model
When this class is initialized, it downloads and loads the pretrained
ViT model weights via ViTModel.from_pretrained() ➊. Then the class
retrieves the hidden size of the model ➋, which serves as the input size
for the fully connected layer that maps the hidden features to the output
classes ➌.
Next, you’ll use Listing 8-42 to configure the preprocessing and
augmentation pipelines to make the training, validation, and testing
datasets compatible with the pretrained ViT model.
from transformers import ViTImageProcessor
pretrained_model = "google/vit-base-patch16-224-in21k"
processor = ViTImageProcessor.from_pretrained(pretrained_model)
image_mean, image_std = processor.image_mean, processor.image_std
size = processor.size["height"]

--- Strana 556 ---
train_transform_pt = transforms.Compose([
    transforms.Resize((size, size)), transforms.RandomCrop(size, padding=4),
    transforms.RandomHorizontalFlip(), transforms.ToTensor(),
    transforms.Normalize(image_mean, image_std),
])
val_transform_pt = transforms.Compose([
    transforms.Resize((size, size)), transforms.ToTensor(),
    transforms.Normalize(image_mean, image_std),
])
train_dataset_pt = copy.deepcopy(train_dataset)
train_dataset_pt.dataset.transform = train_transform_pt
val_dataset_pt = copy.deepcopy(val_dataset)
val_dataset_pt.dataset.transform = val_transform_pt
test_dataset_pt = copy.deepcopy(test_dataset)
test_dataset_pt.transform = val_transform_pt
Listing 8-42: Implementing the preprocessing and augmentation pipelines
Using ViTImageProcessor from the Hugging Face library, the images are
resized, augmented, and normalized to meet the requirements of the
pre-trained model. Similar transformations are applied to the validation
and test sets, but without augmentations, to ensure consistent
evaluation.
With Listing 8-43, you’ll redefine the data loaders to handle the
resized and normalized images.
train_loader_pt = dl.DataLoader(train_dataset_pt, batch_size=32, shuffle=True)
val_loader_pt = dl.DataLoader(val_dataset_pt, batch_size=32, shuffle=False)
test_loader_pt = dl.DataLoader(test_dataset_pt, batch_size=32, shuffle=False)
Listing 8-43: Redefining the data loaders
Running the code in Listing 8-44, you’ll set up and train the
classifier using the pretrained ViT model.
classifier_pt = dl.Classifier(
    model=PretrainedViTModel(pretrained_model, output_channels=10), 
    num_classes=10, optimizer=dl.Adam(lr=2e-5), 

--- Strana 557 ---
).build()
trainer_pt = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=2)
trainer_pt.fit(classifier_pt, train_loader_pt, val_loader_pt)
Listing 8-44: Setting up and training the classifier
The Classifier() class is used to initialize the classifier with the
pretrained model and an Adam optimizer. The learning rate is set to the
unusually small value of 2 × 10–5, which permits fine-tuning without
overwriting the learned features from the pretrained ViT model. The
classifier is set to handle the 10 output classes of the CIFAR-10 dataset.
Once the classifier is created, the code instantiates a Trainer object with a
maximum of two epochs. Then the code calls the fit() method of Trainer
to start the training process.
You can test the performance as follows:
trainer_pt.test(classifier_pt, test_loader_pt)
After only two epochs, the pretrained ViT model achieves an accuracy
of approximately 98 percent on the CIFAR-10 dataset, significantly
outperforming the version trained from scratch.
NOTE
Code Example 8-C, “Classifying Images with a Vision Transformer,”
is 
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch08_Attention folder and then ec08_C_vit. The
vit.ipynb notebook provides a complete code example that
demonstrates how to use a ViT to classify images.
Summary
In this chapter, you explored the impact of attention mechanisms and
transformer models on sequence processing and image classification. To
do so, you built attention modules from scratch and applied them to
explore the relationships between words in a sentence.

--- Strana 558 ---
The first project on machine translation showed how incorporating
multiplicative and additive attention mechanisms significantly enhances
the model’s ability to identify and exploit complex dependencies in
sequential data. Through attention maps, you visualized the attention
mechanism’s ability to dynamically focus on relevant parts of the input
sequence, providing insights into the translation model’s decision-
making process.
The second project presented the architecture of transformers,
which use multi-head attention to understand complex relationships
within input data. You saw the attention mechanism in action through
applications like sentiment analysis and language translation, which
demonstrate how transformers outperform traditional recurrent neural
network–based models by capturing long-term dependencies and
contextual information more effectively.
The third project introduced ViT, a pioneering model that uses the
transformer architecture for image processing. By breaking images into
patches and applying self-attention, ViT remarkably outperforms
convolutional neural networks in image classification, challenging their
dominance. This project demonstrated the ViT model’s effectiveness on
the CIFAR-10 dataset. In particular, the pretrained models achieved
high accuracy even with limited training epochs.
Programmers are finding more and more applications for the
attention concept in many areas of deep learning. By understanding and
using these powerful techniques, you’ll be well equipped to tackle a
wide range of advanced machine learning tasks.
Seminal Works and Further Reading
The concept of attention in neural networks was introduced by Dzmitry
Bahdanau et al. in “Neural Machine Translation by Jointly Learning to
Align and Translate,” published in 2014 on arXiv (article number
1409.0473) and later presented at the 2015 International Conference on
Learning Representations (ICLR). They developed a dynamic attention
model that enabled neural networks to focus on specific parts of an
input sequence.

--- Strana 559 ---
Building on this foundational work, Minh-Thang Luong et al. in
2015 explored various attention mechanisms in “Effective Approaches
to Attention-Based Neural Machine Translation,” published on arXiv
(article number 1508.04025) and presented at the 2015 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP). They
systematically examined various attention techniques, such as dot-
product, general, and concatenative attention.
A significant breakthrough came in 2017 with the introduction of
the transformer architecture by Ashish Vaswani et al. in “Attention Is All
You Need,” presented at the 31st Conference on Neural Information
Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2017) and published in Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems (volume 30). This work discarded
traditional recurrent and convolutional structures in favor of self-
attention mechanisms for seq2seq tasks. The transformer architecture
paved the way for the development of models like BERT and GPT,
which have become dominant in NLP thanks to their ability to handle
long-range dependencies and parallelize computations.
The adaptability of transformers was further demonstrated in 2020
by Alexey Dosovitskiy et al. in “An Image Is Worth 16×16 Words:
Transformers for Image Recognition at Scale,” published on arXiv
(article number 2010.11929) and presented at the 2021 ICLR. This
research introduced the vision transformer (ViT), showing that self-
attention mechanisms could be effectively applied to image-
classification tasks.
CHALLENGE PROJECTS
8-1: Transformer for time-series forecasting  Implement a
transformer model for time-series forecasting on the Jena Climate
dataset and compare its performance with more-traditional
methods, such as the recurrent neural networks you implemented
in Chapter 7.

--- Strana 560 ---
8-2: Language translation  Develop a transformer model
capable of translating multiple languages. Use the well-known
TED Talks Open Translation Project dataset available from the
AI4Bharat IndicNLP Catalog, which offers parallel collections of
texts for several language pairs. Construct and train a transformer
with both encoder and decoder components to handle translation.
Assess the quality of translations by using BLEU scores, and
compare your results with baseline models provided within the
dataset.
8-3: Multimodal learning with ViT and text transformers 
Build a multi-modal learning system that combines visual data
from a ViT model and textual data from a transformer model to
perform a classification task. Use the Twitter Sentiment Analysis
dataset or the Hateful Memes dataset to create a system that
classifies social media posts based on both their image and text
content. Preprocess the image and text data, train the multimodal
model, and evaluate its performance. Analyze how the integration
of visual and textual information improves classification accuracy
and provides richer context for decision-making.
8-4: Create a chatbot  Build an attention-based chatbot capable
of engaging in basic conversations. Use the Cornell Movie-
Dialogs Corpus to train your chatbot. This dataset contains a large
collection of movie character dialogues that can teach your model
how to handle conversational context and generate appropriate
responses. Focus on preprocessing the text data, designing a
suitable recurrent neural network architecture, and implementing
a mechanism to handle context and conversation flow. Compare
the performance of this chatbot with that of a chatbot
implemented using a recurrent neural network.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 561 ---
9
CREATING AND TRANSFORMING IMAGES
WITH GENERATIVE ADVERSARIAL
NETWORKS
In this chapter, you’ll learn about generative adversarial networks, or
GANs, a ground-breaking innovation in generative deep learning that
has reshaped image synthesis. Emerging as a powerful successor to
models like the variational autoencoders in Chapter 4, GANs have
excelled in applications ranging from artistic image generation to style
transfer and image inpainting.
GANs have far-reaching applications in various fields. In the
entertainment industry, GANs are revolutionizing video game design by
creating lifelike characters and environments, as well as enhancing
content creation in films and virtual reality by generating high-quality
textures, backgrounds, and even entire scenes. In security, they’re
employed for data synthesis and anomaly detection, helping to identify
unusual patterns that could signal threats or fraud. In biomedical and
pharmaceutical research, GANs are revolutionizing the study of cellular
and subcellular structures by offering a noninvasive alternative to
traditional chemical staining methods, which often involve toxic

--- Strana 562 ---
substances that can alter the cells’ natural state and behavior.
Additionally, in health care, GANs aid in generating synthetic medical
images, which can be used for training diagnostic models, ultimately
improving disease detection and treatment planning.
You’ll begin by discovering the adversarial learning approach that
powers GANs. This architecture consists of a dual-network system: the
generator, which creates new, unseen data; and the discriminator, which
evaluates the authenticity of this generated data. Crucially, both
networks are trained to compete with each other. This adversarial
relationship results in the generator producing increasingly realistic
data, while the discriminator becomes more adept at distinguishing real
from fake data.
To understand these concepts, you’ll implement a basic GAN
architecture generating MNIST digits. Afterward, you’ll progress to the
more advanced task of coding a GAN to perform virtual stainings.
Finally, you’ll create a CycleGAN for cross-modality microscopy.
Understanding GANs
This section will guide you through the fundamental concepts behind
GANs, including their architecture, the mathematical principles
governing their operation, and the training process that allows them to
produce high-quality synthetic data.
When attempting to generate a new, unseen sample that
convincingly resembles those in a given dataset, a neural network first
needs to understand the underlying data distribution. This means the
network must learn the statistical properties and patterns that define the
dataset, ensuring that the generated sample fits the same set of criteria
that characterizes the original data. Essentially, the generated sample
should be indistinguishable from the real samples, making it a plausible
member of the dataset.
Different generative models get this information in different ways.
As you saw in Chapter 4, autoencoders learn the underlying data
distribution by mapping the input data to a latent space. They achieve
this by compressing the images through an encoder network into the

--- Strana 563 ---
latent space, then reconstructing the original data from the latent space
through a decoder network. In a more refined approach, variational and
Wasserstein autoencoders grasp the distribution of the data by assuming
a prior distribution of the latent space. Subsequently, they learn the
distribution’s parameters through a variational inference approach.
GANs improve upon these strategies by implementing a separate neural
network to define and update the loss function.
GANs are composed of two neural networks, the generator and the
discriminator, as illustrated in Figure 9-1.
Figure 9-1: The GAN architecture
As the name suggests, the generator generates new data from pure
noise by sampling points in a latent space, much like a decoder in an
autoencoder. However, unlike an autoencoder, the generator in a GAN
doesn’t have a predefined loss function to minimize the difference
between the generated images and the original images. Instead, the loss
function is dynamically defined by the discriminator.
The discriminator differentiates real data from fake data produced by
the generator. In turn, the generator tries to fool the discriminator by
generating fake data that is indistinguishable from the real data.

--- Strana 564 ---
This adversarial setup gives rise to a dynamically learned loss function;
the loss function is not fixed but is learned in the training process. In the
following subsection, you’ll explore the math behind this process—
specifically, the principal equation of GANs and their training loop.
Discriminating Between Real and Fake Data
If the discriminator’s job is to distinguish between real and fake data,
then in essence, it performs a binary classification task. The
discriminator classifies the provided data into one of two classes, Real or
Fake, similar to the way you classified the dataset containing images of
uninfected and parasitized malaria stains in Project 3A. The difference
here is that one of the classes, the one containing the fake images, is
constantly changing as the generator becomes better at its job.
The output of the discriminator is a single value ranging from 0 to 1
that predicts the probability of the image belonging to the Real (1) or
Fake (0) class. As you’ve seen in several projects, a common loss
function used for binary classification tasks is the binary cross-entropy
loss. This can be written as
where y is the ground-truth label (either 0 or 1), and ŷ is the predicted
label, which can acquire continuous values from 0 to 1.
Let’s define x as some real data belonging to a dataset, such as an
image of a handwritten digit from the MNIST dataset. If we represent
the discriminator as D, the output of the discriminator is D(x)—a value
that can be interpreted as the estimated probability of the image x being
real. By setting the ground-truth label y = 1 in Equation 9.1, you get
this:
Similarly, let z be the noise vector input into the generator.
Representing the generator as G, the output of the generator is G(z)—
LBCE = −y  log ˆy −(1 −y)log (1 −ˆy)     (9.1)
Lreal = −logˆy
    (9.2)
= −log (D(x))

--- Strana 565 ---
the fake image generated from the noise vector z. After setting the
ground-truth label y = 0 in Equation 9.1, when the discriminator takes
this fake image as input, you get the following:
The loss function for the discriminator is defined as the average of
the loss functions for the real and fake images, which can be written as
follows:
During the training process, the discriminator optimizes its parameters
to minimize this loss function.
Generating Realistic Fake Data
The generator aims to produce fake images that the discriminator can’t
tell apart from the real ones. This means that the generator tries to
create images that cause the discriminator to output a probability value
of 1 that the data belongs to the real class. Accordingly, to calculate the
generator’s loss function, setting the ground-truth label y = 1 in
Equation 9.1, you get the following:
During the training process, the generator optimizes its parameters to
minimize this loss function; to do so, it needs to produce fake images
from noise vectors, denoted as G(z), that the discriminator is more likely
to classify as real. This means that the generator seeks to minimize the
loss function ℒG (Equation 9.5) to increase the probability that the
discriminator will assign a label of 1 to the generated image.
In other words, the generator tries to maximize, ℒfake = – log(1 –
D(G(z))), the second term in the loss function of the discriminator
Lfake = −log (1 −ˆy)
    (9.3)
= −log (1 −D (G(z)))
+ 1
2 Lfake     (9.4)
LD = 1
2 Lreal
LG = −logˆy
    (9.5)
= −log (D (G(z)))

--- Strana 566 ---
(Equation 9.4).
With this interpretation, you now should understand the adversarial
dynamics underlying the training of GANs. The generator and
discriminator continuously adapt to each other, with the generator
trying to produce realistic data, and the discriminator striving to
distinguish between real and fake data. This interplay forms the basis of
the adversarial objective, originally defined in the 2014 seminal paper
“Generative Adversarial Networks” by Ian Goodfellow and co-workers.
Training a GAN
The following steps describe the training loop for a GAN:
1. Sample a real data point x from the dataset (such as an image of a
handwritten digit from the MNIST dataset).
2. Pass the real data point through the discriminator to get the
discriminator prediction for the real data point, D(x).
3. Use binary cross-entropy loss to calculate the first part of the
discriminator loss (ℒreal) for the real image by setting the ground-
truth label y = 1 (Equation 9.2).
4. Sample a noise vector z from a normal distribution N (0, 1).
5. Generate a fake data point by passing the noise vector z through
the generator, G(z).
6. Pass G(z) through the discriminator to get the discriminator
prediction for the fake data point, D(G(z)).
7. Use binary cross-entropy loss to calculate the second part of the
discriminator loss (ℒfake) for the fake image by setting the
ground-truth label y = 0 (Equation 9.3).
8. Calculate the total discriminator loss (ℒD) as the average of the
two losses (Equation 9.4).
9. Train the discriminator by backpropagating ℒD.

--- Strana 567 ---
10. Calculate the generator loss by setting the ground-truth label for
the fake image as y = 1 in the binary cross-entropy loss function
ℒG (Equation 9.5).
11. Train the generator by backpropagating ℒG.
12. Repeat these steps until the generator and the discriminator loss
curves reach equilibrium, or until the generator produces realistic
data.
Unlike conventional training algorithms that minimize the loss,
GANs aim to achieve an equilibrium between the generator and the
discriminator. This balance ensures that while the generator produces
realistic outputs, the discriminator becomes proficient at distinguishing
real from generated data.
In the next section, you’ll implement this training loop from scratch.
Generating Digits with a GAN
Now that you understand the underlying math of GANs, you’ll build a
deep convolutional GAN to generate images of handwritten digits from
the MNIST dataset. To do so, after preprocessing the dataset, you’ll
define the generator and discriminator. Afterward, you’ll train the GAN
and analyze its results by visualizing the images and loss functions
output by the generator and discriminator.
Loading the MNIST Dataset with PyTorch
You’ve already encountered the MNIST dataset several times, starting
with Project 1A. It consists of grayscale images of handwritten digits
from 0 to 9, each 28×28 pixels. There are 60,000 training images and
10,000 test images. For this example, you’ll load the MNIST dataset by
using the TorchVision package provided by PyTorch.
Before downloading the dataset, you’ll define some transformations
to convert it into a usable form with Listing 9-1.

--- Strana 568 ---
from torchvision.transforms import Compose, Normalize, Resize, ToTensor
transform = Compose([Resize((64, 64)), ToTensor(),
                     Normalize(mean=[0.5], std=[0.5], inplace=True)])
Listing 9-1: Implementing the digit transformations
Since the GAN that you’ll define later expects images of 64×64
pixels, this code defines a transformation that resizes the images to the
expected size and converts them into PyTorch tensors. The Normalize
transformation then normalizes their pixel values to lie from –1 to 1 and
subtracts mean from the images and subsequently divides them by std.
This normalization is standard practice when training GANs because it
helps stabilize and speed up the training process by ensuring that the
input data has a consistent scale, reducing the risk of vanishing or
exploding gradients. However, normalizing is not strictly required.
You can now import and transform the MNIST digits with Listing
9-2.
from torchvision.datasets import MNIST
trainset = MNIST(root="data", train=True, transform=transform, download=True)
Listing 9-2: Importing the MNIST digits
This code downloads the MNIST training data, applies the
transformations defined by transform to each image, and saves it to the
data folder.
You can now visualize some transformed MNIST digits with Listing
9-3.
import torch
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
fig, axs = plt.subplots(1, 8, figsize=(15, 3))
for ax in axs.ravel():
 ➊ img, label = trainset[torch.randint(0, len(trainset), (1,)).squeeze()]
 ➋ ax.imshow(img.squeeze(), cmap="gray")
    ax.set_title(f"Label: {label}", fontsize=16)

--- Strana 569 ---
    ax.axis("off")
plt.tight_layout()
plt.show()
Listing 9-3: Plotting some of the transformed MNIST digits
This code randomly selects some images from the training set ➊ and
plots them ➋, as shown in Figure 9-2.
Figure 9-2: Examples of transformed MNIST digits
These are typical MNIST digits like those you’ve encountered in
previous examples and projects, but with a slightly higher resolution.
Defining the Generator and Discriminator
After converting the dataset into a usable format, you’ll define the
generator and discriminator networks.
Computation Device
Start by defining the device you’ll use for training:
device = get_device()
This uses the get_device() function (Listing 7-10). Because of their
complex architecture and adversarial training method, GANs are
computationally demanding. Using a GPU will allow you to train them
within practical time frames—typically, minutes per epoch. In contrast,
relying on a CPU might require several hours for each training epoch.
Generator
To produce fake digits, your generator will take a latent vector (noise
vector) of size 100 as input and transform it into a 64×64–pixel image.

--- Strana 570 ---
Use the DCGANGenerator class to define the deep convolutional network that
will serve as your generator, as shown in Listing 9-4.
import deeplay as dl
latent_dim = 100
gen = dl.DCGANGenerator(
    latent_dim=latent_dim, features_dim=64, output_channels=1,
).build().to(device)
Listing 9-4: Instantiating the generator
This code defines the parameters for the generator, builds it, and
moves it to the device. The generator consists of four upsampling layers
(convolutional transpose layers), each followed by a batch normalization
layer and a ReLU activation. The last layer is followed by a hyperbolic
tangent activation.
In this example, the number of input latent-space dimensions in the
latent_dim parameter is set to 100. The number of convolutional filters in
each upsampling layer is defined by features_dim, which is set to 64. This
results in features_dim * 16, features_dim * 8, features_dim * 4, and features_dim
* 2 filters in the first, second, third, and fourth layers, respectively. Since
the MNIST dataset consists of grayscale images, the number of output
channels is set to 1.
You can print the details of the generator’s structure with print(gen).
Discriminator
Finally, you’ll create a discriminator that takes a 64×64–pixel image as
input and outputs a value of 0 to 1, which predicts the probability that
the input image is real. Use the DCGANDiscriminator class to define the deep
convolutional network that will serve as your discriminator, as shown in
Listing 9-5.

--- Strana 571 ---
disc = dl.DCGANDiscriminator(
    input_channels=1, features_dim=64,
).build().to(device)
Listing 9-5: Instantiating the discriminator
This code defines the parameters for the discriminator, builds it, and
moves it to the device. The discriminator network consists of four
convolutional layers, each followed by a batch normalization layer and a
leaky ReLU activation layer.
Since the MNIST dataset consists of grayscale images, the number
of input channels is set to 1. The number of convolutional filters in each
layer is defined by the features_dim parameter, which is set to 64. This
results in features_dim, features_dim * 2, features_dim * 4, and features_dim * 8
filters in the first, second, third, and fourth layers, respectively.
By default, both the generator and the discriminator are initialized
with starting weights sampled from a normal distribution with a mean
of 0, a standard deviation of 0.02, and biases sampled from a uniform
random distribution of –1 to 1. This initialization makes the model
more stable and reproducible, preventing mode collapse.
You can use print(disc) to print the details of the discriminator
architecture.
Training the GAN
Now that you’ve defined your generator and discriminator, you can
implement the code to train the GAN.
Loading the Data
You’ll first create a data loader that splits the training data into mini-
batches, as shown in Listing 9-6.
loader = dl.DataLoader(trainset, batch_size=128, shuffle=True)
Listing 9-6: Defining the data loader
This code initializes a data loader that shuffles the dataset before
creating batches with a batch size of 128.

--- Strana 572 ---
Next, you’ll introduce a loss function, as shown in Listing 9-7.
loss = torch.nn.BCELoss()
Listing 9-7: Defining the loss function
This code defines a binary cross–entropy loss that will be used for
both the discriminator and generator.
Finally, set up the optimizers, as shown in Listing 9-8.
optim_gen = torch.optim.Adam(gen.parameters(), lr=0.0002, betas=(0.5, 0.999))
optim_disc = torch.optim.Adam(disc.parameters(), lr=0.0002, betas=(0.5, 0.999))
Listing 9-8: Defining the optimizers
This code uses the Adam optimizer for both the generator and
discriminator. The lr parameter controls the learning rate, the rate at
which the model weights are updated to minimize the loss. Adjusting
the individual learning rates of the generator and discriminator can help
maintain the balance between them, ensuring that neither network
becomes too dominant during training, which is crucial for stable and
effective GAN training.
The betas parameters, often referred to as β1 and β2, determine how
the optimizers compute the moving averages of the gradient and its
square. β1 controls the decay rate for the moving average of the
gradients, affecting how quickly the optimizer incorporates new
gradient information. Here, the value is 0.5, meaning that the model
adapts relatively quickly to recent gradients (to slow the adaptation, you
would increase β1; to speed it up, you would decrease β1). β2 regulates
the decay rate for the moving average of the squared gradients,
influencing the adaptive learning rate’s stability and responsiveness.
Here, the value is 0.999, causing the model to use a stable estimate of
gradient variance over time (to make the estimate more responsive to
recent changes, you would decrease β2; to make it even more stable, you
would increase β2).
The values in this example were chosen to balance the trade-off
between responsiveness to gradient changes and stability in learning

--- Strana 573 ---
rate adaptation. Striking this balance is crucial to maintain the necessary
equilibrium between the generator and discriminator when training a
GAN.
Implementing the Adversarial Training
You’ll now implement the training loop shown in Listing 9-9 to teach
the GAN to generate MNIST digits from noise.
epochs = 20
for epoch in range(epochs):
    for batch_idx, (real_images, class_labels) in enumerate(loader, start=0):
        real_images = real_images.to(device)
     ➊ noise = torch.randn(loader.batch_size, latent_dim, 1, 1).to(device)
        fake_images = gen(noise)
        # 1. Discriminator training: minimize - log(D(x)) - log(1 - D(G(z)))
        real_output = disc(real_images).reshape(-1)
        fake_output = disc(fake_images).reshape(-1)
        real_loss = loss(real_output, torch.ones_like(real_output))
        fake_loss = loss(fake_output, torch.zeros_like(fake_output))
        disc_loss = (real_loss + fake_loss) / 2
        optim_disc.zero_grad()
     ➋ disc_loss.backward(retain_graph=True)
     ➌ optim_disc.step()
        # 2. Generator training: minimize - log(D(G(z)))
        fake_output = disc(fake_images).reshape(-1)
        gen_loss = loss(fake_output, torch.ones_like(fake_output))
        optim_gen.zero_grad()

--- Strana 574 ---
        gen_loss.backward()
        optim_gen.step()
Listing 9-9: Implementing the training cycle
This code trains the GAN. The loop runs for 20 epochs, iterating
over batches of real images and corresponding class labels from the data
loader. For each batch, the loop transfers the real images to the
designated computing device, while producing a noise vector ➊ and
feeding it into the generator to create fake images.
First, the discriminator is trained to distinguish between real and
fake images. It calculates individual losses for both real and generated
images, then averages them to get the total disc_loss. The discriminator’s
parameters are then updated. To do so, the code sets the gradient
buffers of the optimizer to 0. Then the code backpropagates the loss
through the discriminator’s network, which calculates the gradients of
the loss with respect to each parameter ➋. Finally, the optimizer updates
the parameters in the direction that minimizes the loss ➌. Importantly,
during backpropagation for the discriminator, the parameter
retain_graph=True preserves the computational graph. This preservation is
necessary because the fake images output by the generator will be used
again in the generator’s training step. This retention is critical because it
allows the gradients to flow back from the discriminator’s output to the
generator’s parameters, enabling the generator to learn from the way
the discriminator distinguishes between real and fake images.
Subsequently, the generator is trained to maximize the probability of
the discriminator misclassifying the generated images as real. To do so,
gen_loss is computed, followed by an optimization process that updates
the generator’s parameters.
Adding Timing and Notifications
To get real-time feedback, you can include timing and notifications
within your training loop. This allows you to monitor the training
duration and understand the model’s learning trend. Listing 9-10 sets
up these functions.

--- Strana 575 ---
import time
from datetime import timedelta
--snip--
num_batches = len(loader)
gen_losses_avg, disc_losses_avg = [], []
for epoch in range(epochs):
    print("\n" + f"Epoch {epoch + 1}/{epochs}" + "\n" + "-" * 10)
  ➊ start_time = time.time()
 
    running_gen_loss, running_disc_loss = 0.0, 0.0
    for batch_idx, (real_images, class_labels) in enumerate(loader, start=0):
        --snip--
        if batch_idx % 100 == 0:
         ➋ print(f"Batch {batch_idx + 1}/{num_batches}: " 
                  f"Generator Loss: {gen_loss.item():.4f}, " 
                  f"Discriminator Loss: {disc_loss.item():.4f}")
        running_gen_loss += gen_loss.item()
        running_disc_loss += disc_loss.item()
    gen_losses_avg.append(running_gen_loss / num_batches)
    disc_losses_avg.append(running_disc_loss / num_batches)
  ➌ end_time = time.time()
    print("-" * 10 + "\n" + f"Epoch {epoch + 1}/{epochs}: " 
          f"Generator Loss: {gen_losses_avg[-1]:.4f}, "
          f"Discriminator Loss: {disc_losses_avg[-1]:.4f}, "
        ➍ + f"Time taken: {timedelta(seconds=end_time - start_time)}")
Listing 9-10: Timing the training and notifying the user (by modifying Listing 9-9)
This code adds timing and logging functionalities within the
training loop to monitor and evaluate training progress.
The current time is recorded at the beginning ➊ and end ➌ of each
epoch. To determine the total duration of the epoch, the code calculates
the difference between the two timestamps. The timedelta() function
then converts the total time delta into a human-readable format and
prints it ➍. Note that the training time per epoch will vary greatly

--- Strana 576 ---
depending on the computational device employed, from a few seconds
on an A100 GPU to hours on a standard CPU.
To track the losses throughout its runtime, this code initializes the
gen_losses_avg and disc_losses_avg lists to store the average losses for the
generator and discriminator across epochs. To track how losses
accumulate within each epoch, the code initializes the running_gen_loss and
running_disc_loss variables and sets them to 0 at the beginning of each
main loop. Within the inner loop, after each batch is processed, the
losses are printed every 100 batches ➋, offering real-time insight into
the model’s performance at regular intervals. Then the running loss for
both the generator and the discriminator is updated with the loss from
the current batch. At each epoch’s conclusion, the average losses are
computed, added to their respective lists, and printed, allowing you to
compare the model’s loss across different epochs and assess its learning
trajectory and stability over time.
You can use this feedback to diagnose issues such as overfitting or
underfitting and to make decisions about potential adjustments to the
model or training regimen. For instance, if you notice overfitting, you
might increase regularization or reduce the complexity of the generator
or discriminator. Conversely, underfitting could be addressed by
increasing the model’s capacity or training for more epochs.
Plotting the Intermediate Results
You can gain further insights into how the generator evolves and
improves during training by visualizing the images it generates at the
end of each epoch, demonstrated by Listing 9-11.
--snip--
fix_latent_vector = torch.randn(30, latent_dim, 1, 1).to(device)
for epoch in range(epochs):
    gen.train(), disc.train()
    --snip--
    gen.eval(), disc.eval()
 ➊ fake_images = gen(fix_latent_vector).detach().cpu().numpy()
 
    fig, axs = plt.subplots(3, 10, figsize=(20, 6))

--- Strana 577 ---
    for i, ax in enumerate(axs.ravel()):
        ax.imshow(fake_images[i][0], cmap="gray")
        ax.axis("off")
    plt.tight_layout()
    plt.show()
 ➋ plt.close(fig)
Listing 9-11: Plotting some sample images after each epoch (by modifying Listing 9-10)
At the beginning of the training, this code creates fix_latent_vector to
serve as a constant input to the generator, permitting you to observe
how the output images evolve as the generator learns.
To begin each epoch, both the generator and discriminator are set to
training mode, the correct state for learning. After processing all batches
for a given epoch, the generator and discriminator are switched to
evaluation mode. This mode change is crucial for generating images
because it disables certain layers and behaviors that are relevant only
during training, such as dropout. Then, the fixed latent vector is passed
through the generator to produce a set of images ➊. These images are
detached from the computation graph and transferred back to the CPU
for plotting. Finally, at the end of each training epoch, the figure is
closed to prevent memory leaks ➋.
Figure 9-3 presents the images generated after the first training
epoch.
Figure 9-3: Generated images after one training epoch

--- Strana 578 ---
These images lack structure and hardly resemble handwritten digits,
reflecting the generator’s initial randomness.
In contrast, Figure 9-4 shows the images generated after the full
training course of 20 epochs.
Figure 9-4: Generated images at the end of the 20-epoch training
As the generator and discriminator improve iteratively through the
adversarial training process, the images become more defined and
closely resemble actual MNIST digits. This improvement displays the
generator’s ability to learn from the discriminator’s feedback, fine-
tuning its parameters to create images that are increasingly difficult for
the discriminator to distinguish from real data. Even so, some images
still don’t represent well-defined digits. Even though there are no sure
recipes to improve this, you might explore what happens when you
modify the power of the generator and discriminator, the learning rates
defined in the optimizers, and the number of epochs.
Plotting the Training Losses
By analyzing the training losses of the generator and discriminator, you
can investigate the dynamics of the adversarial training process. Listing
9-12 plots these losses over time.
import numpy as np
plt.plot(np.arange(len(gen_losses_avg)), gen_losses_avg, "g--o", 
         label="Generator Loss")

--- Strana 579 ---
plt.plot(np.arange(len(disc_losses_avg)), disc_losses_avg, "r-o", 
         label="Discriminator Loss")
plt.xlabel("Epoch", fontsize=16)
plt.ylabel("Loss", fontsize=16)
plt.legend()
plt.show()
Listing 9-12: Plotting the generator and discriminator losses
The resulting Figure 9-5 displays the generator and discriminator
losses over the course of the training.
Figure 9-5: The generator (dashed line) and discriminator (solid line) losses
In general, the discriminator loss tends to decrease over time,
reflecting its growing ability to distinguish between real and fake
images. On the other hand, the generator loss tends to be more volatile.
It can either decrease, indicating that its ability to fool the discriminator
is improving, or increase, suggesting that the discriminator is
performing well.

--- Strana 580 ---
These losses illustrate that the adversarial training process in GANs
results in a tension between the generator and discriminator. The
generator aims to produce increasingly realistic images, while the
discriminator strives to become better at detecting the fakes. Ideally,
these networks reach a point where the generator produces perfect
forgeries, and the discriminator must guess at random with a 50 percent
chance of correctly identifying real versus fake, achieving a
corresponding loss value of about 0.5. However, this equilibrium is
challenging to achieve in practice.
The fluctuating losses depicted in the graph are typical in GAN
training and reflect the ongoing battle between the two networks. This
dynamic can sometimes lead to training instability as the losses oscillate
or diverge—a form of mode collapse. In such a case, the generator
produces a limited diversity of outputs, independent of the input. To
address mode collapse, you might introduce techniques like adding
noise to the labels or adjusting the learning rates to stabilize training.
NOTE
Code Example 9-1, “Generating New MNIST Digits with a GAN,”
is 
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch09_GAN folder and then ec09_1_gan_mnist.
The gan_mnist.ipynb notebook provides a complete code example to
generate MNIST digits with a GAN.
EXERCISES
9-1:  The quality of generated images in GANs depends on the
interplay between the generator and discriminator during the
training process. To optimize quality, you must ensure that the
networks are in equilibrium as long as possible without one
overpowering the other. By observing the loss curves, adjust the
learning rates of the generator and discriminator to maximize the

--- Strana 581 ---
time they remain in balance. If the discriminator is learning more
quickly, reduce its learning rates, and vice versa. Plot the generated
images and loss curves for three different choices of learning rates
for the discriminator and for a fixed learning rate for the
generator.
9-2:  Modify the generator and discriminator architectures by
changing the features_dim parameters during model instantiation.
For the optimal learning rates discovered in the previous exercise,
find out what value of the features_dim parameter further optimizes
image quality. Plot the loss curves and observe how they relate to
the quality of the generated digits.
Project 9A: Generating Digits with a Conditional
GAN
In the previous section, you learned how to use GANs to generate
random MNIST digits that closely resemble those in the original
dataset. Yet, this process doesn’t control the specific digits produced. You
can’t directly request a particular digit, such as a 4 or a 2. To address this
limitation, you can use a conditional GAN, which incorporates class labels
into the process, permitting you to condition the image generation.
In this section, you’ll train a conditional GAN to create specific
MNIST digits on demand. You’ll start by exploring the fundamental
concept behind conditional GANs and how they differ from traditional
GANs. You’ll then move on to preparing the data, building the
conditional GAN architecture, and training the model. Finally, you’ll
generate specific digits and evaluate the model’s performance.
Since you’ll closely follow the code you’ve implemented in the
preceding section, you’ll use the gan_mnist.ipynb notebook as a starting
point.
Defining the Conditional Generator and Discriminator

--- Strana 582 ---
After you’ve loaded the MNIST data and chosen the device to use for
training, you can instantiate the generator and discriminator.
Conditional Generator
In contrast to the traditional setup that bases output solely on a noise
vector, the generator of conditional GANs produces images based on
provided class labels. You can achieve this using an embedding layer. This
layer transforms each class label into a vector of a specified embedding
dimension. The addition of this embedding layer to the GAN
architecture is shown in Figure 9-6.
Figure 9-6: The conditional GAN architecture
The embedding layer is a learnable component of the network,
meaning that the model adjusts the embeddings during the training
process to better suit the specific requirements of the generation of
class-conditioned images. To do so, the network optimizes these
embeddings to capture the most relevant features to distinguish classes,
thereby enhancing the quality and accuracy of the generated images.
The noise vector and the class embedding are then concatenated to
form an extended latent vector, combining both the random-noise input
and the class-specific information. Finally, this extended vector is fed

--- Strana 583 ---
into the generator network, enabling it to generate images that are
diverse because of the random noise, but also tailored to the specified
class label provided as input.
You can easily do this by adapting Listing 9-4 as shown in Listing 9-
13.
--snip--
gen = dl.DCGANGenerator(
    latent_dim=latent_dim, features_dim=64, output_channels=1, 
    class_conditioned_model=True, embedding_dim=100, num_classes=10,
).build().to(device)
Listing 9-13: Instantiating the conditional generator (by modifying Listing 9-4)
This code initializes the DCGANGenerator object you’ll use as a
conditional GAN (class_conditioned_model=True). To generate learnable
class embedding vectors for each class, the class labels are passed
through an embedding layer. This code sets the parameter embedding_dim
to 100 dimensions.
Together, the parameters for the number of classes and embedding
dimensions define the embedding layer, which functions like a learnable
matrix with dimensions corresponding to the number of classes by the
number of embedding dimensions. As a result, the embedding layer
ensures a proper mapping between the single-value class label and the
vector class embedding. The remaining parameters are the same as the
non-conditional GAN model.
Conditional Discriminator
In a conditional GAN, the discriminator is also modified to process
additional class label inputs. Similar to the changes to the generator, this
is done by adding a trainable embedding layer, also shown in Figure 9-6.
This layer takes the class labels and transforms them into
embedding vectors of a specified embedding dimension. Each vector is
then passed through a dense layer followed by a leaky ReLU activation
function, which extends the vector’s dimensions to match the spatial
dimensions of the input images. In the example, a vector of embedding

--- Strana 584 ---
dimension 100 is transformed into a vector of size 4,096, the product of
the dimensions of the input images (64×64). The resulting output vector
is then reshaped back into an image of size equal to the input image
(64×64). Essentially, this process translates the class label information
into image form by concatenating the information about the label to the
input image as an additional channel. This results in an augmented
input that includes both image and class information.
The adapted discriminator processes this augmented input, using
the additional class label information to differentiate between real and
fake images of a given class. However, to accommodate the extra
channel from the concatenated class embeddings, you must adjust the
discriminator’s architecture. The rest of the discriminator network
processes this combined input similarly to an unconditional GAN,
outputting a prediction of whether the input image is real or fake.
You can implement this with Listing 9-14.
disc = dl.DCGANDiscriminator(
    input_channels=1, features_dim=64, class_conditioned_model=True, 
    embedding_dim=100, num_classes=10,
).build().to(device)
Listing 9-14: Instantiating the conditional discriminator (by modifying Listing 9-5)
This code sets the discriminator network to conditional with
class_conditioned_model=True. Then it specifies the embedding dimension
(embedding_dim=100) and the number of classes (num_classes=10).
As with the unconditional GAN, the weights of the generator and
discriminator models are initialized with starting values sampled from a
normal distribution with a mean of 0 and a standard deviation of 0.02 by
default.
Training the Conditional GAN
You can now train the conditional GAN. Start by defining the data
loader with Listing 9-6, the loss function with Listing 9-7, and the
optimizers with Listing 9-8.

--- Strana 585 ---
The adversarial training resembles the one for the standard GAN in
Listing 9-10. The differences are shown in Listing 9-15.
epochs = 10
--snip--
fix_latent_vector = torch.randn(30, latent_dim, 1, 1).to(device)
fix_class_labels = torch.arange(0, 10).repeat(3).to(device)
for epoch in range(epochs):
    --snip--
    for batch_idx, (real_images, class_labels) in enumerate(loader, start=0):
        real_images = real_images.to(device)
        class_labels = class_labels.to(device)
     ➊ noise = torch.randn(real_images.shape[0], 
                            latent_dim, 1, 1).to(device)
        fake_images = gen(noise, class_labels)
        # 1. Discriminator training: minimize -log(D(x)) - log(1 - D(G(z)))
        real_output = disc(real_images, class_labels).reshape(-1)
        fake_output = disc(fake_images, class_labels).reshape(-1)
        --snip--
        # 2. Generator training: minimize - log(D(G(z)))
        fake_output = disc(fake_images, class_labels).reshape(-1)
        --snip--
     
    gen.eval(), disc.eval()
  ➋ fake_images = gen(fix_latent_vector, 
                      fix_class_labels).detach().cpu().numpy()
    --snip--
Listing 9-15: Training a conditional GAN (by modifying Listing 9-11)
First, the number of epochs is changed to 10, since with the
additional class label information, the networks will learn more quickly.
Increasing the number of epochs makes the networks susceptible to
mode collapse, which would result in the generated images for different
noise vectors becoming indistinguishable.

--- Strana 586 ---
Second, to evaluate the model performance, this code now creates
fixed class labels in addition to the fixed latent vectors, and both are
passed through the generator during the evaluation phase ➋. Similarly,
in the training process, the new code passes the class labels to the device
and inputs them to the generator and discriminator.
Finally, the number of noise vectors generated is modified from the
nominal batch size to the number of real images ➊ in every batch. This
ensures that the networks receive the same number of noise vectors as
class labels in every batch. Without this step, if there are fewer class
labels than the number of elements in the last batch, there would be
more noise vectors than class labels, which would result in an error.
Since your GAN’s performance depends on the dynamic balance
between the generator and discriminator, you’ll want to inspect the
plots of the generated images during training as well as the losses to
determine whether you need to adjust your parameters.
Plotting the Generated Digits
Figure 9-7 presents the images generated by the trained GAN.
Figure 9-7: Generated images at the end of the 10-epoch training
Upon completing 10 training epochs, the generator produces
specific digits corresponding to the conditioned class labels it receives.
Beyond these training epochs, you must be vigilant to prevent mode
collapse. You might observe that despite providing varied class labels,
the generator starts producing similar or identical images across these

--- Strana 587 ---
classes. This phenomenon indicates that the network is no longer using
the class-specific information effectively.
You can plot the losses as you train the conditional GAN to
understand the networks’ dynamic interplay and balance. Typically, the
generator’s loss starts higher during its initial struggles to create
convincing images, but decreases over time as it learns to synthesize
more-realistic outputs conditioned on class labels. Conversely, the
discriminator’s loss usually starts lower because of its initial effectiveness
in distinguishing real from fake images. However, if the discriminator’s
loss remains too low, the generator likely isn’t providing a sufficient
challenge, potentially leading to mode collapse.
Monitoring these losses is essential to ensure equilibrium. Ideally,
they converge to a point where the generator produces high-quality
images and the discriminator has a 50 percent success rate in identifying
them correctly. Significant divergence in these losses necessitates
adjustments such as altering learning rates or modifying network
architectures to maintain a balance that ensures the generation of
diverse, high-quality images.
NOTE
Code Example 9-A, “Generating MNIST Digits On Demand with a
Conditional 
GAN,” 
is 
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch09_GAN folder and then ec09_A_cgan_mnist.
The cgan_mnist.ipynb notebook provides a complete code example to
generate specific MNIST digits on demand with a conditional GAN.
Project 9B: Virtually Staining a Biological Tissue
Biomedical and pharmaceutical research relies on the study of cellular
and subcellular structures. This task traditionally requires chemically
staining cells and their compartments to enhance their visibility under a
fluorescence microscope. Unfortunately, these staining procedures are

--- Strana 588 ---
invasive and often involve toxic substances, potentially altering the cells’
natural state and behavior.
In this project, you’ll use a conditional GAN to circumvent this
procedure by transforming bright-field microscopy images of human
motor neurons to mimic fluorescence staining. Known as virtual
staining, this technique allows researchers to generate fluorescence
images without the need for actual chemical staining, preserving the
cells’ integrity while enhancing the visibility of cellular structures of
interest.
To accomplish this task, you’ll train a conditional GAN with pairs of
bright-field and fluorescence images, allowing the model to learn the
mapping between the two modalities. Finally, you’ll evaluate the model’s
performance by generating virtual fluorescence images from new
bright-field images and by comparing them to the real fluorescence-
stained images to assess accuracy and quality.
Downloading the Human Motor Neurons Dataset
To train your GAN, you’ll use part of a dataset that was originally
published in 2018 in “In Silico Labeling: Predicting Fluorescent Labels
in Unlabeled Images” by Eric M. Christiansen and co-workers. This
paper helped pioneer the use of deep learning for virtual staining.
Specifically, you’ll download the paper’s human motor neurons dataset
designated as Condition A.
This dataset comprises 22 pairs of bright-field images and their
corresponding fluorescence images. These images are spatially
coregistered, meaning that the bright-field and fluorescence images are
matched pixel by pixel so that corresponding features appear in the
same locations in both. The images depict two fluorescent channels: an
anti-TuJ1 stain, which stains neurons green, and a Hoechst stain, which
stains nuclei blue. Notably, the bright-field images consist of a z-stack of
13 images across different focal planes, offering a comprehensive view
of the cellular structures.
The full dataset is available in a public Google Cloud Storage
bucket. A replicate containing only data used in this project can be

--- Strana 589 ---
downloaded from GitHub, as illustrated in Listing 9-16.
import os
if not os.path.exists("vs_dataset"):
    os.system("git clone https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/vs_dataset")
Listing 9-16: Importing the virtual staining dataset
The dataset is about 20GB and will take at least a few minutes to
download (or longer, depending on your internet connection).
Creating a Dataset
Once the download is complete, you’ll create a custom dataset class to
load the dataset and preprocess the images, as shown in Listing 9-17.
import glob
import numpy as np
from PIL import Image
import torch
from tqdm import tqdm
class VirtualStainingDataset(torch.utils.data.Dataset):
    """Dataset containing the bright-field and fluorescence images."""
    _cache = {}  # Class variable to cache loaded images
    def __init__(self, dir, transforms=None, preload=False):
        """Initialize dataset."""
        self.dir, self.transforms, self.preload = dir, transforms, preload
     ➊ self.images = []
        pattern = ("lab-Rubin,condition-scott_1_0,acquisition_date,"
                ➋ "year-2016,month-2,day-6,well-r0*c0*,depth_computation,"
                   "value-MAXPROJECT,is_mask-false,kind,value-ORIGINAL.png")
     ➌ self.image_list = glob.glob(os.path.join(self.dir, pattern))
        if self.preload:
            if dir in VirtualStainingDataset._cache:

--- Strana 590 ---
             ➍ self.images = VirtualStainingDataset._cache[dir]
            else:
                for image_path in tqdm(self.image_list,
                                       total=len(self.image_list),
                                       desc="Preloading images ..."):
                 ➎ self.images.append(self.load_image(image_path))
             ➏ VirtualStainingDataset._cache[dir] = self.images
    def load_image(self, image_path):
        """Load input-target image couple."""
        input_image = []
        for i in range(13):
            image_path_i = (
                image_path.replace("MAXPROJECT", "BRIGHTFIELD")
                .replace("depth_computation", f"z_depth-{i},channel")
            )
            input_image.append(np.array(Image.open(image_path_i).convert("L")))
        input_image = np.stack(input_image, axis=-1)
        target_image = np.array(Image.open(image_path))
        return input_image, target_image
    --snip--
Listing 9-17: The dataset class with the initialization method
This class, derived from the PyTorch Dataset class, manages the data
during the training and testing processes. After initialization, it loads a
dataset and then applies custom transformations and normalizations to
the images for you to specify later.
The code starts by creating the _cache class variable to ensure that
the dataset isn’t loaded multiple times into memory when you run more
than one instance of the class.
The __init__() method takes three input parameters: dir, which
contains the path to the dataset; transforms, which contains a list of two
transformations to be applied to the bright-field images and the
fluorescence images, respectively; and preload, which specifies whether to

--- Strana 591 ---
load the dataset into memory before training (True) or during training
(False). The method then initiates an empty list ➊ to store the images.
Next, the pattern variable specifies the common string in the target
image filenames of the dataset. These files are differentiated by their
well numbers ➋, with the asterisks acting as placeholders for the
variable parts of the filenames.
Afterward, the glob.glob() function gathers a list of all the files that
match this pattern; this list comprises the target fluorescence images ➌.
Later, the code will use this list to load the target fluorescence images
and, after minor modification, the input bright-field images.
If preload is set to True, the load_image() function loads the input and
target images into the self.images list ➎. At the method’s end, the _cache
dictionary is updated with the list of images as values and dir as cache
keys ➏.
To prevent the dataset from being loaded multiple times, the code
uses the if condition to check for the dir cache key in the _cache variable.
If the key already exists, the images will be directly loaded from the
cache ➍.
Finally, the load_image() method loads the images in a structured
manner based on the image path. The method first loads all 13 channels
in the input bright-field image by modifying the filenames indicating
the target images in a loop. The method then appends these channels to
an empty list and converts them to a stack. Subsequently, the target
fluorescence image is loaded via the image path. Finally, the method
returns the input and target images as outputs.
To specify the dataset length and ensure consistent transformations
across the images you load, implement the remaining methods in the
class, as shown in Listing 9-18.
--snip--
class VirtualStainingDataset(torch.utils.data.Dataset):
    --snip--
    def __len__(self):
        """Return number of images."""

--- Strana 592 ---
        return len(self.image_list)
    def __getitem__(self, i):
        """Get input-target image couple."""
        if self.preload:
            input_image, target_image = self.images[i]
        else:
            input_image, target_image = self.load_image(self.image_list[i])
        if self.transforms:
         ➊ seed = np.random.randint(1_000_000_000)
         ➋ torch.manual_seed(seed)
            input_image = self.transforms[0](input_image)
         ➌ torch.manual_seed(seed)
            target_image = self.transforms[1](target_image)
        return input_image, target_image
Listing 9-18: The dataset class with all the methods (by modifying Listing 9-17)
The __len__() method specifies the length of the dataset. Here,
__len__() returns the length of the image list gathered by glob.glob() in
Listing 9-17.
The __getitem__() method returns an input-target image pair. If
preload is True, the images are loaded directly from the images list that
already contains the images. If preload is False, the images are loaded into
memory on demand when each batch is needed during training. Then,
if the transforms parameter is set so that some transformations are to be
applied to the images, the code creates a random-number generator ➊.
The random-number generator is seeded before the corresponding
transformations are applied to both the input ➋ and target ➌ images.
This ensures that the same transformation is applied to both sets of
images if the transformation is randomly sampled. However, the order
of any randomized transformations needs to be consistent across both
the input and target images. If the transformations are applied in an
order different from that of the input and target images, the resulting
pairs would no longer be aligned, leading to incorrect training.

--- Strana 593 ---
Preprocessing the Images
Define the transformations and normalizations to be applied to the
images, as shown in Listing 9-19.
from torchvision import transforms
trans_bright = transforms.Compose([
    transforms.ToTensor(), transforms.RandomCrop((256, 256)),
    transforms.RandomHorizontalFlip(p=.5), transforms.RandomVerticalFlip(p=.5),
    transforms.Normalize(mean=[0.5] * 13, std=[0.5] * 13),
])
trans_fluorescent = transforms.Compose([
    transforms.ToTensor(), transforms.RandomCrop((256, 256)),
    transforms.RandomHorizontalFlip(p=.5), transforms.RandomVerticalFlip(p=.5),
    transforms.Normalize(mean=[0.5] * 3, std=[0.5] * 3),
])
Listing 9-19: Defining the image transformations and normalizations
These transformations crop the images to 256×256 pixels and
randomly flip them horizontally and vertically. The code also
normalizes the values within the images to fall from –1 to 1 (by
subtracting mean from the images and dividing them by std). Since the
bright-field images have 13 channels, the means and standard deviations
are given as lists of 13 values. The means and standard deviations of the
fluorescence images, which have three channels, are given as lists of
three values.
Creating the Training and Testing Datasets
Now that your code is ready to manage and preprocess the data, create
the training and testing datasets as shown in Listing 9-20.
train_set = VirtualStainingDataset(
    dir=os.path.join("vs_dataset", "train"),
    transforms=[trans_bright, trans_fluorescent], preload=True,
)
test_set = VirtualStainingDataset(
    dir=os.path.join("vs_dataset", "test"),

--- Strana 594 ---
    transforms=[trans_bright, trans_fluorescent], preload=True,
)
Listing 9-20: Creating the training and testing datasets
By setting the preload argument to True, this code preloads the entire
dataset into memory to speed up the training. If you don’t have enough
memory, you can set this argument to False at the cost of a longer
computing time, as the images will be loaded each time they’re needed.
The transforms argument consists of the list of transformations you
defined earlier for the bright-field and fluorescence images.
Visualizing Some Images
Using the datasets you’ve constructed, visualize some bright-field and
corresponding fluorescence images, using Listing 9-21.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
input_image, target_image = train_set[np.random.randint(0, len(train_set))]
def denormalize(image):
    """Denormalize image for visualization."""
    return (image + 1) / 2
plt.subplot(1, 3, 1)
plt.imshow(input_image.mean(axis=0), cmap="gray")
plt.title("Brightfield Image")
plt.axis("off")
plt.subplot(1, 3, 2)
plt.imshow(denormalize(target_image[1, :, :].numpy()), cmap="Greens")
plt.title("Stained Neurons")
plt.axis("off")
plt.subplot(1, 3, 3)
plt.imshow(denormalize(target_image[2, :, :].numpy()), cmap="Blues")
plt.title("Stained Nuclei")
plt.axis("off")

--- Strana 595 ---
plt.tight_layout()
plt.show()
Listing 9-21: Visualizing the bright-field and corresponding fluorescence images
This code plots the bright-field image averaged over all the focal
planes and its corresponding fluorescence images channel by channel:
the green channel (anti-TuJ1 stain) representing motor neurons, and the
blue channel (Hoechst stain) representing nuclei. The red channel is
empty since these fluorescence images don’t contain any information in
that channel.
Since the images are normalized to the [–1, 1] range, this code
implements the denormalize() function to denormalize the images back to
a range of [0, 1] for visualization.
This results in Figure 9-8.
Figure 9-8: The bright-field image (left) and the corresponding fluorescence stained images
You can see the bright-field image of human motor neurons on the
left and the corresponding fluorescence images staining the neurons
(middle) and nuclei (right).
Instantiating the Generator and Discriminator
Now specify the computing device for training:

--- Strana 596 ---
device = get_device()
This uses the get_device() function (Listing 7-10). Next, you’ll initialize
the generator and discriminator models.
Generator
Define the generator as a slightly modified U-Net, as shown in Listing
9-22.
   import deeplay as dl
   from torch.nn import InstanceNorm2d, LeakyReLU, Tanh
   gen = dl.UNet2d(
       in_channels=13, channels=[32, 64, 128, 256, 512], out_channels=3,
   )
➊ gen["encoder", ..., "activation"].configure(LeakyReLU, negative_slope=0.2)
➋ gen["decoder", ..., "activation#:-1"].configure(LeakyReLU, negative_slope=0.2)
➌ gen["decoder", ..., "activation#-1"].configure(Tanh)
➍ gen["decoder", "blocks", :-1].all.normalized(InstanceNorm2d)
➎ gen[..., "blocks"].configure(order=["layer", "normalization", "activation"])
   gen.build().to(device);
Listing 9-22: Defining the generator
This code uses the Deeplay UNet2d class to define the generator
network with 13 input channels corresponding to the number of bright-
field planes, 5 convolutional layers, and 3 output channels
corresponding to the 3 channels of the fluorescence image. (You can
omit the fifth convolutional layer for computational efficiency and still
obtain good results.)
Next, the code modifies the hidden layers’ activations to use leaky
ReLU in both the encoder ➊ and the decoder ➋, except for the decoder
output layer activation that is modified to a hyperbolic tangent ➌ to
ensure that the output values are bounded from –1 to 1. Likewise,
instead of the default BatchNorm2d, the code uses InstanceNorm2d in the
decoder ➍ to increase performance in image-to-image translation tasks.
Finally, the order of the normalization and activation in both the

--- Strana 597 ---
encoder and the decoder is changed ➎; this ensures that the
normalization is applied before the activation function, which leads to
more-stable training and better convergence by maintaining consistent
data distributions across the network.
Once these steps are complete, the code builds the model and
transfers it to the selected device. You can use print(gen) to print out the
details of this architecture.
Discriminator
Now that you’ve instantiated the generator, let’s set up the
discriminator. The discriminator takes a fluorescence image (either a
real one or one output by the generator) and a bright-field image as
inputs; then it outputs a smaller image, with each pixel representing the
probability that a given patch in the fluorescence image is a real patch.
This process of evaluating an image patch by patch, known as the
PatchGAN approach, helps the discriminator better judge the local
features and structures in the original image.
Define the discriminator as illustrated in Listing 9-23.
   from torch.nn import Sigmoid
   disc = dl.ConvolutionalNeuralNetwork(
       in_channels=16, hidden_channels=[8, 16, 32, 64], out_channels=1,
   )
   disc["blocks", ..., "layer"].configure(kernel_size=4, stride=2, padding=1)
➊ disc["blocks", ..., "activation#-1"].configure(LeakyReLU, negative_slope=0.2)
➋ disc["blocks", 1:-1].all.normalized(InstanceNorm2d)
➌ disc["blocks", ..., "activation#-1"].configure(Sigmoid)
➍ disc["blocks"].configure(order=["layer", "normalization", "activation"])
   disc.build().to(device);
Listing 9-23: Defining the discriminator
This code uses the Deeplay ConvolutionalNeuralNetwork class with 16
input channels, 4 hidden layers, and a single output. The 16 input
channels represent the 13 channels in the bright-field image plus the 3

--- Strana 598 ---
channels in the fluorescence image. You can further strengthen the
discriminator by increasing the number of features in the hidden layers.
Next, the code alters the parameters of the hidden layers by
switching their activations to leaky ReLU ➊ (to help prevent the
vanishing gradient problem) and their normalizations to InstanceNorm2d ➋
(which provides better performance by normalizing the activations
across each channel independently). Then the code changes the
activation of the output layer to sigmoid ➌ to ensure that the output
values are scaled to a range from 0 to 1, which is appropriate for tasks
involving pixel intensity. Finally, the code rearranges the order of the
layers, activations, and normalizations ➍.
After applying these modifications, the code builds the model and
transfers it to the selected device. You can use print(disc) to print its
architecture.
Compiling the Conditional GAN
Now that you’ve set up the generator and discriminator, you can
implement the conditional GAN. To do this, you’ll define the loss
functions, optimizers, and data loaders.
First, you need to define the loss functions as shown in Listing 9-24.
from torchmetrics.image.lpip import LearnedPerceptualImagePatchSimilarity
loss_disc = torch.nn.MSELoss()
loss_recon = torch.nn.L1Loss()
loss_percep = LearnedPerceptualImagePatchSimilarity(net_type="vgg").to(device)
Listing 9-24: Defining the losses
This code defines three losses. The adversarial loss for the
discriminator (loss_disc) is calculated using the MSE loss function. The
reconstruction loss for the generator (loss_recon) is calculated using an
L1 loss function, which directly compares the generated fluorescence
image with the target image via the MAE loss function. Finally, the
perceptual loss (loss_percep) is calculated using the learned perceptual
image patch similarity (LPIPS) metric to ensure that the generated

--- Strana 599 ---
fluorescence image is perceptually similar to the actual fluorescence
image.
To capture texture and detail discrepancies that might not be evident
through direct pixel comparison, the LPIPS metric uses a pretrained
VGG16 network—the same one you used for the DeepDreams in
Project 3C and for the neural style transfer in Project 3D. This network
computes the loss by measuring the difference between the feature maps
of the generated and real images at various layers of the network. Doing
so allows the LPIPS metric to capture many perceptual differences that
the human visual system would also notice. This approach enables the
model to output images that perceptually resemble the actual
fluorescence images.
After specifying the loss functions, implement the optimizers with
Listing 9-25.
optim_gen = torch.optim.Adam(gen.parameters(), lr=.0002, betas=(.5, .999))
optim_disc = torch.optim.Adam(disc.parameters(), lr=.00005, betas=(.5, .999))
Listing 9-25: Defining the optimizers
This code uses the Adam optimizer for both generator and
discriminator, but with different learning rates. You can adjust these
rates to balance the performance of the generator and discriminator so
that neither dominates during training.
Now instantiate the data loaders, using Listing 9-26.
train_loader = dl.DataLoader(train_set, batch_size=2, shuffle=True)
test_loader = dl.DataLoader(test_set, batch_size=2, shuffle=False)
Listing 9-26: Defining the data loaders
This code defines the data loaders with a batch size of 2.
Training the Conditional GAN
You’re now ready to implement the training procedure for the
conditional GAN. You’ll first define functions to train the discriminator,
train the generator, and evaluate the model in each training epoch.
Then you’ll define the loop where these functions train the model.

--- Strana 600 ---
Training the Discriminator
Define the train_disc() function shown in Listing 9-27.
def train_disc(inputs, targets, optim_disc, loss_disc):
    """Train the discriminator."""
    optim_disc.zero_grad()
    # Compute real loss
    disc_outputs_real = disc(torch.cat([inputs, targets], dim=1))
    labels_real = torch.ones_like(disc_outputs_real)
    disc_loss_real = loss_disc(disc_outputs_real, labels_real)
    # Compute fake loss
    gen_outputs = gen(inputs)
    disc_outputs_fake = disc(torch.cat([inputs, gen_outputs], dim=1))
    labels_fake = torch.zeros_like(disc_outputs_fake)
    disc_loss_fake = loss_disc(disc_outputs_fake, labels_fake)
    disc_loss = (disc_loss_real + disc_loss_fake) / 2
    disc_loss.backward()
    optim_disc.step()
    return disc_loss
Listing 9-27: The function to train the discriminator
This function takes bright-field images and their corresponding
fluorescence images as inputs, and outputs the loss of the discriminator
network. The function starts by zeroing the discriminator gradients.
Next, it computes the real loss and the fake loss before averaging them
to calculate the total loss. Finally, the function backpropagates the loss
and updates the discriminator weights, similar to the steps in Listing 9-
9.
Training the Generator
Now define the train_gen() function shown in Listing 9-28.

--- Strana 601 ---
def train_gen(inputs, targets, optim_gen, loss_disc, loss_recon, loss_percep,
              recon_coef=100, percep_coef=10):
    """Train the generator."""
    optim_gen.zero_grad()
    gen_outputs = gen(inputs)
    disc_outputs = disc(torch.cat([inputs, gen_outputs], dim=1))
    labels = torch.ones_like(disc_outputs)
    adv_loss = loss_disc(disc_outputs, labels)
    recon_loss = loss_recon(gen_outputs, targets)
    percep_loss = loss_percep(gen_outputs, targets)
    gen_loss = adv_loss + recon_coef * recon_loss + percep_coef * percep_loss
    gen_loss.backward()
    optim_gen.step()
    return gen_loss, adv_loss, recon_loss, percep_loss
Listing 9-28: The function to train the generator
This function takes bright-field images and their corresponding
fluorescence images as inputs, and outputs the loss used by the
generator network. This loss is a combination of three losses
(adversarial loss, reconstruction loss, and perceptual loss), which are also
returned.
After setting the optimizer gradients to 0, the generator takes the
input bright-field images to generate the fluorescence images. Then the
discriminator processes the input images and generated images, and
outputs the predictions of whether the generated images are real or fake
(patch by patch) based on the provided input images.
Next, the function calculates the adversarial loss: A label value of 1
indicates that the generated images are real (adv_loss). Additionally, the
function directly compares the input and generated images through the
reconstruction loss to ensure pixel-wise similarity (recon_loss) as well as
the perceptual loss to ensure perceptual similarity (percep_loss).

--- Strana 602 ---
Finally, this function calculates the total generator loss (gen_loss) with
the recon_coef parameter as the weight for the reconstruction loss and
percep_coef as the weight for the perceptual loss, backpropagates the total
loss, updates the generator weights, and returns the different losses.
Evaluating the Model
Define the evaluate_model() function in Listing 9-29 to evaluate the model
on the test dataset.
def evaluate_model(input, target):
    """Evaluate model on test data."""
    gen.eval()
    with torch.no_grad():
        prediction = gen(input.to(device))
    gen.train()
    fig, ax = plt.subplots(2, 3, figsize=(10, 7))
 
    ax[0, 0].imshow(
        denormalize(input[0].permute(1, 2, 0).cpu().numpy().mean(axis=-1)),
        cmap="gray",
    )
    ax[0, 0].set_title("Input Image")
    ax[0, 0].axis("off")
 
    ax[0, 1].imshow(
        denormalize(prediction[0].permute(1, 2, 0).cpu().numpy())[:, :, 1],
        cmap="Greens",
    )
    ax[0, 1].set_title("Prediction - Neurons")
    ax[0, 1].axis("off")
    ax[1, 1].imshow(
        denormalize(target[0].permute(1, 2, 0).cpu().numpy())[:, :, 1],
        cmap="Greens",
    )
    ax[1, 1].set_title("Ground Truth - Neurons")

--- Strana 603 ---
    ax[1, 1].axis("off")
    ax[0, 2].imshow(
        denormalize(prediction[0].permute(1, 2, 0).cpu().numpy())[:, :, 2],
        cmap="Blues",
    )
    ax[0, 2].set_title("Prediction - Nuclei")
    ax[0, 2].axis("off")
    ax[1, 2].imshow(
        denormalize(target[0].permute(1, 2, 0).cpu().numpy())[:, :, 2],
        cmap="Blues",
    )
    ax[1, 2].set_title("Ground Truth - Nuclei")
    ax[1, 2].axis("off")
    ax[1, 0].axis("off")  # Leave the [1, 0] subplot empty
    plt.tight_layout()
    plt.show()
    plt.close(fig)
Listing 9-29: The function to evaluate the model on the test dataset
This function takes an input image, processes it through the
generator, and renders a figure containing the input image, the
generated fluorescence image, and the label. The function starts by
setting the generator to evaluation mode, generating the fluorescence
image, passing the input image to the generator, and setting the
generator back to training mode.
The function then creates a figure with different subplots to show
the input image, the generated image, and label fluorescence images.
The input bright-field image is plotted first, then both the generated
and the label fluorescence images are plotted channel-wise. The green-
channel image (neurons) is created using a color map of Greens.
Subsequently, the blue-channel image (nuclei) is produced with a color
map of Blues.
Implementing the Training Cycle

--- Strana 604 ---
Now use the functions you just implemented to define the training loop,
as shown in Listing 9-30.
epochs = 500
for epoch in range (epochs):
    for i, (inputs, targets) in enumerate(train_loader, 0):
        inputs, targets = inputs.to(device), targets.to(device)
        # 1. Train the discriminator
        disc_loss = train_disc(inputs, targets, optim_disc, loss_disc)
        # 2. Train the generator
     ➊ for _ in range(2):
            gen_loss, adv_loss, recon_loss, percep_loss = train_gen(
                inputs, targets, optim_gen, loss_disc, loss_recon, loss_percep,
            )
    if epoch % 50 == 0 or epoch + 1 == epochs:
        for i, (test_input, test_target) in enumerate(test_loader, 0):
            evaluate_model(test_input, test_target)
            break
Listing 9-30: Implementing the training cycle
The training loop iterates over 500 epochs. In each epoch, the loop
processes the full training dataset in batches of two samples as defined
by train_loader from Listing 9-26. In each batch, the inputs (bright-field
images) and the labels (fluorescence images) are transferred to the
designated device.
The discriminator is trained first using the train_disc() function
defined in Listing 9-27. The discriminator takes the bright-field images,
the labels, the discriminator optimizer, and the discriminator loss
function as inputs and returns the discriminator loss for the current
batch. For each discriminator training, the generator is trained twice ➊
via the train_gen() function defined in Listing 9-28. You can adjust the
ratio of generator versus discriminator training steps after you’ve
empirically observed the results. The function to train the generator

--- Strana 605 ---
returns the total generator loss (gen_loss) as well as the three partial
losses—namely, the adversarial loss (adv_loss), the reconstruction loss
(recon_loss), and the perceptual loss (percep_loss).
Once every 50 epochs, the code evaluates the quality of generated
images with the evaluate_model() function defined in Listing 9-29. This
function renders a figure to observe the generated fluorescence images
against the label images.
Adding Timing and Notifications
Similarly to Listing 9-10, you can add timing and notification features
within the training loop to monitor the training duration and loss
trends. Listing 9-31 implements these functionalities.
import time
from datetime import timedelta
--snip--
disc_losses, gen_losses, recon_losses, percep_losses = [], [], [], []
for epoch in range(epochs + 1):
 ➊ start_time = time.time()
    print("\n" + f"Epoch {epoch + 1}/{epochs}" + "\n" + "-" * 10)
    disc_loss_epoch, gen_loss_epoch, recon_loss_epoch, percep_loss_epoch = \
        [], [], [], []
    for i, data in enumerate(train_loader, 0):
        --snip--
        if i % 5 == 0:
            print(f"Batch {i + 1}/{len(train_loader)} : "
                  f"Total Generator Loss: {gen_loss.item():.4f}, "
                  f"Discriminator Loss: {disc_loss.item():.4f}")
        disc_loss_epoch.append(disc_loss.item())
        gen_loss_epoch.append(gen_loss.item())
        recon_loss_epoch.append(recon_loss.item())
        percep_loss_epoch.append(percep_loss.item())
 
 ➋ end_time = time.time()

--- Strana 606 ---
    disc_losses.append(np.mean(disc_loss_epoch))
    gen_losses.append(np.mean(gen_loss_epoch))
    recon_losses.append(np.mean(recon_loss_epoch))
    percep_losses.append(np.mean(percep_loss_epoch))
    print(f"-" * 10 + "\n" + f"Epoch {epoch + 1}/{epochs} : "
          f"Discriminator Loss: {disc_losses[-1]:.4f}, "
          f"Total Generator Loss: {gen_losses[-1]:.4f}, "
          f"Reconstrucntion Loss: {recon_losses[-1]:.4f}, "
          f"Perceptual Loss: {percep_losses[-1]:.4f}" + "\n"
          f"Time taken: {timedelta(seconds=end_time - start_time)}")
    --snip--
Listing 9-31: Timing the training and notifying the user (by modifying Listing 9-30)
The changes to the code are very similar to those made in Listing 9-
10. This code records the time before ➊ and after each epoch ➋, then
calculates the time elapsed between the two.
To track the losses, the code initializes four empty lists to store the
average loss for each loss type at the end of every epoch as well as a
second set of empty lists inside the first for loop to track the losses for
each batch within an epoch.
Throughout the code, statements are printed to track the losses as
the training progresses, similar to those in Listing 9-10.
Evaluating the Trained Conditional GAN
Figure 9-9 shows the results after training for 500 epochs.

--- Strana 607 ---
Figure 9-9: The bright-field image (left) and its corresponding ground-truth (middle and
right, top row) and virtually stained fluorescence images (bottom row)
The input image on the left shows an averaged bright-field image
from the test dataset, corresponding to the images that the generator
uses to generate the fluorescence image. The top row shows the green
and blue channels of the generated fluorescence image, with the
corresponding fluorescence ground-truth targets shown below. The
generated and target images closely resemble each other. The two
fluorescence stains, green and blue (representing motor neurons and
nuclei, respectively), are added by the network in similar regions to
those of the chemically stained image. This indicates that the generator
is able to correctly grasp the biological information in the bright-field
image and to virtually stain the images. The quality of the generated
images can be improved by more training and by tuning the network
and training hyperparameters.

--- Strana 608 ---
NOTE
Code Example 9-B, “Virtually Straining a Biological Tissue with a
Conditional 
GAN,” 
is 
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate 
to 
the 
Ch09_GAN 
folder 
and 
then
ec09_B_virtual_staining. The virtual_staining.ipynb notebook
provides a complete code example to virtually stain a biological tissue
with a conditional GAN.
Project 9C: Converting Between Holographic and
Bright-Field Microscopy Images
In this project, you’ll use CycleGANs to bridge the gap between two
fundamentally different microscopy techniques: holography and bright-
field microscopy. Holographic microscopy captures 3D information about
microscopic entities by measuring a single hologram of the object under
observation. In contrast, bright-field microscopy provides a higher-quality
image of the sample but can’t capture 3D information without taking
multiple images and repeatedly adjusting the microscope stage—a far
slower process.
One of the significant challenges in the application of advanced
image-transformation techniques is the need for precisely coregistered
images of each type, as you had for the virtual staining in the preceding
project. This requirement often necessitates capturing the same sample
with two different microscopes before the sample can change or
degrade, a practical impossibility for many microscopy studies that deal
with dynamic biological samples.
Herein lies the challenge: transforming unpaired images between
these microscopy modalities without having perfectly coregistered
image pairs. CycleGANs offer a powerful solution by enabling the
transformation of images between holographic and bright-field
modalities (or between other imaging modalities) without the need for
coregistration.

--- Strana 609 ---
This project will first introduce you to the fundamental principle
behind CycleGANS: cycle consistency. Afterward, you’ll prepare the
holographic and bright-field microscopy datasets for the CycleGAN
training. You’ll then implement the generators and discriminators as
well as a training loop. This loop will allow the CycleGAN to convert
images between holographic and bright-field representations.
Understanding CycleGANs
CycleGANs represent a breakthrough for cross-modality
transformation between two datasets that lack coregistered pairs. The
concept at the heart of CycleGANs is the principle of cycle consistency, a
loss function ensuring that a transformation from one domain to
another can be mapped back to the original domain, preserving the
essence of the initial input. Figure 9-10 illustrates this concept.

--- Strana 610 ---
Figure 9-10: The concept of cycle consistency
To grasp this concept more concretely, imagine you possess two
distinct generator networks: GeneratorH2B, tasked with converting
images from the holographic domain (H) to the bright-field domain (B),
and GeneratorB2H, tasked with performing the inverse transformation.
Let’s say that an image from the H domain undergoes
transformation through GeneratorH2B into the B domain. If the result
were then processed by GeneratorB2H, you would expect to recover the
original H domain image. Likewise, the same cycle consistency applies
when an image starts in the B domain, moves to H, and then is returned
to B. This cyclical process ensures that despite the lack of direct pairing,
the transformation maintains a logical and consistent link between the
two modalities.

--- Strana 611 ---
To achieve this transformation and maintain cycle consistency,
CycleGANs employ two discriminator networks: DiscriminatorH and
DiscriminatorB. These networks are trained in tandem with the
generators, sharpening their ability to differentiate between genuine
and synthetically transformed images within their respective domains.
Using the Holo2Bright Dataset
The Holo2Bright dataset consists of holographic and bright-field
microscopy images of marine microplankton. It is divided into 4,500
holographic and 880 bright-field images for training and 4,500
holographic and 244 bright-field images for testing. The size of all
images is 256×256 pixels. You can download this dataset from a GitHub
repository as shown in Listing 9-32.
import os
if not os.path.exists("holo2bright_dataset"):
    os.system("git clone https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/holo2bright_dataset")
Listing 9-32: Downloading the Holo2Bright dataset
This code checks whether the dataset directory already exists. If not,
the code downloads the dataset from GitHub.
Implementing the Dataset
Once your download is complete, you need to prepare the data you’ll
use to train the CycleGAN. To do so, use Listing 9-33 to implement a
custom dataset class to load the images from the dataset folder, apply
the required transformations, and return the images and their
corresponding labels in a consistent manner.
import numpy as np
import torch
from PIL import Image
class Holo2BrightDataset(torch.utils.data.Dataset):
    """Dataset containing the unpaired holographic and bright-field images."""

--- Strana 612 ---
    def __init__(self, directory, transforms=None):
        """Initialize dataset."""
        self.transforms = transforms
        self.holo_dir = os.path.join(directory, "holography")
        self.holo_images = os.listdir(self.holo_dir)
        self.bright_dir = os.path.join(directory, "brightfield")
        self.bright_images = os.listdir(self.bright_dir)
    def __len__(self):
        """Return number of images."""
     ➊ return min(len(self.holo_images), len(self.bright_images))
    def __getitem__(self, index):
        """Get unpaired holographic and brightfield images."""
        holo_index = np.random.randint(len(self.holo_images))
        holo_image = Image.open(
            os.path.join(self.holo_dir, self.holo_images[holo_index])
        )
        bright_index = np.random.randint(len(self.bright_images))
        bright_image = Image.open(
            os.path.join(self.bright_dir, self.bright_images[bright_index])
        )
     
        if self.transforms:
            seed = np.random.randint(1_000_000_000)
            torch.manual_seed(seed)
            holo_image = self.transforms[0](holo_image)
            torch.manual_seed(seed)
            bright_image = self.transforms[1](bright_image)
        return holo_image, bright_image
Listing 9-33: The class to manage the dataset images
This class loads the images in small batches without having to load
the entire dataset into memory before training. The class is initialized
with two input parameters: directory, which sets the dataset directory
path, and transform, which contains a list of two transformations. The

--- Strana 613 ---
first is applied to the holographic images, and the second to the bright-
field images. Finally, the initialization method saves a list of available
holographic images and a list of their corresponding bright-field
images.
Since the dataset has more holographic than bright-field images, the
length of the dataset is set to the smaller number ➊. This length will be
used to calculate the batch size and number of steps in each epoch.
The __getitem__() method samples random holographic and bright-
field images. This ensures that all the images are sampled in both sets,
irrespective of their sizes, ensuring a more thorough training. The
method then applies the transformations you’ll define. Finally, it returns
the individual holographic and bright-field images.
Preprocessing the Dataset
Next, define the necessary augmentations, transformations, and
normalizations you’ll apply to preprocess the dataset, as demonstrated
in Listing 9-34.
from torchvision import transforms as trans
trans_holo = trans.Compose([
    trans.RandomHorizontalFlip(p=.5), trans.RandomVerticalFlip(p=.5),
    trans.ToTensor(), trans.Normalize(mean=[.5], std=[.5]),
])
trans_bright = trans.Compose([
    trans.RandomHorizontalFlip(p=.5), trans.RandomVerticalFlip(p=.5),
    trans.ToTensor(), trans.Normalize(mean=[.5, .5, .5], std=[.5, .5, .5]),
])
Listing 9-34: Implementing the necessary augmentations, transformations, and
normalizations
This code defines two sets of transformations for holographic and
bright-field images. It augments the images by flipping them vertically
and horizontally with a probability of 0.5. Finally, the code normalizes
the pixel values of the images to lie from –1 to 1 for the single channel

--- Strana 614 ---
in the grayscale holographic image and for all three channels in the
color bright-field images.
Creating the Training and Testing Datasets
After preprocessing, you’re ready to create the training and testing
datasets as shown in Listing 9-35.
train_dataset = Holo2BrightDataset(
    directory=os.path.join("holo2bright_dataset", "holo2bright", "train"),
    transforms=[trans_holo, trans_bright],
)
test_dataset = Holo2BrightDataset(
    directory=os.path.join("holo2bright_dataset", "holo2bright", "test"),
    transforms=[trans_holo, trans_bright],
)
Listing 9-35: Creating the datasets
As required by the class you initialized previously, the
transformations are provided as a list.
Visualizing Holographic and Bright-Field Images
Finally, you’re ready to visualize some example images, using Listing 9-
36.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
fig, axs = plt.subplots(1, 4, figsize=(8, 2))
for i in range(4):
    axs[i].imshow(train_dataset[i][0][0], cmap="gray")
    axs[i].axis("off")
fig.suptitle("Holography")
plt.show()
fig, axs = plt.subplots(1, 4, figsize=(8, 2))
for i in range(4):
    img = train_dataset[i][1].permute(1, 2, 0).numpy()
 ➊ img = (((img * 0.5) + 0.5) * 255.0).astype(np.uint8)

--- Strana 615 ---
    axs[i].imshow(img)
    axs[i].axis("off")
fig.suptitle("Brightfield")
plt.show()
Listing 9-36: Plotting some holographic and bright-field images
This code plots four holographic images and four bright-field
images from the training dataset. Since the bright-field images are
normalized to fall within the [–1, 1] range, they’re first denormalized to
the [0, 1] range for visualization ➊. The results should be similar to
Figure 9-11.
Figure 9-11: The holographic (top) and bright-field (bottom) images of marine
microplankton
By looking at their different features, you can clearly see that the
holographic and bright-field images aren’t coregistered. This means that
you can’t apply traditional deep learning architectures or even
conditional GANs to transform one microscopy technique into another.

--- Strana 616 ---
Instantiating the CycleGAN Generators and Discriminators
Once you’ve determined the computing device using
device = get_device()
which uses the get_device() function (Listing 7-10), you’re ready to
initialize both the generators and the discriminators.
Generators
You’ll use the Deeplay CycleGANResnetGenerator class to define the
CycleGAN generators, as shown in Listing 9-37.
import deeplay as dl
gen_H2B = dl.CycleGANResnetGenerator(in_channels=1, out_channels=3).build()
gen_B2H = dl.CycleGANResnetGenerator(in_channels=3, out_channels=1).build()
gen_H2B.to(device), gen_B2H.to(device);
Listing 9-37: Defining the generators
This code instantiates the two generators to transform
monochromatic holographic images to color bright-field images, and
vice versa. Then it passes the generators to the selected computational
device. You can print their architecture with print(gen_H2B) and
print(gen_B2H).
These generators are U-Nets, which consist of a convolutional
backbone with residual connections, as you’ve seen in Chapter 5. The
generators begin with an initial convolutional block, enhancing feature
extraction by expanding the input’s channel depth. Subsequently, the
input data proceeds through a series of convolutional blocks,
progressively doubling the channels while halving the spatial
dimensions to capture a rich, hierarchical representation of the input. At
the core of the architecture lies a sequence of nine residual blocks. The
blocks refine the features they receive in input without altering their
spatial dimensions, ensuring that essential information is preserved and
enhanced through the network.

--- Strana 617 ---
Afterward, the architecture transitions into the upsampling phase,
utilizing convolutional transpose blocks to gradually restore the spatial
dimensions while reducing the depth of the feature maps, the inverse of
the U-Net’s expansive path. This process effectively reconstructs the
image from the encoded feature representation, with the final
convolutional layer consolidating the features into the output image.
Instance normalizations and ReLU activations ensure that the model
dynamically adapts to the data, promoting stability and efficiency in
learning.
Discriminators
Now that you’ve created the generators, use the Deeplay
CycleGANDiscriminator class to define the discriminators, as shown in
Listing 9-38.
disc_H = dl.CycleGANDiscriminator(in_channels=1).build()
disc_B = dl.CycleGANDiscriminator(in_channels=3).build()
disc_H.to(device), disc_B.to(device);
Listing 9-38: Defining the discriminators
This code instantiates two discriminators: one for the holographic
images, and one for the bright-field images. Then the code passes the
discriminators to the selected computational device. You can print their
structure with print(disc_H) and print(disc_B).
Your CycleGAN will use PatchGAN discriminators, designed to
classify small patches of an image as real or fake by focusing on high-
frequency details. Their architecture starts with convolutional layers
that progressively decrease the image size while increasing channel
depth, using leaky ReLU for nonlinearity and instance normalization
for stability. Instead of classifying the entire image at once, the
discriminator evaluates smaller patches, with each patch receiving a
scalar value through a sigmoid function that indicates that patch’s
probability of being real. The final output is a grid of these scalar values,
reflecting the estimated authenticity of each patch.
Loss Functions, Optimizers, and Data Loaders

--- Strana 618 ---
At this point, you’re ready to define two different loss functions for the
generators and discriminators, as shown in Listing 9-39.
loss_gen = torch.nn.L1Loss()
loss_disc = torch.nn.MSELoss()
Listing 9-39: Defining the losses
This code sets the loss_gen generator loss function as MAE, also
called L1 loss. Then it sets the loss_disc discriminator loss as MSE, also
called L2 loss.
After specifying the loss functions, create the optimizers for the
generators and discriminators, as shown in Listing 9-40.
optim_gen = torch.optim.Adam(
    list(gen_H2B.parameters()) + list(gen_B2H.parameters()), 
    lr=0.0002, betas=(0.5, 0.999),
)
optim_disc = torch.optim.Adam(
    list(disc_H.parameters()) + list(disc_B.parameters()), 
    lr=0.0002, betas=(0.5, 0.999),
)
Listing 9-40: Defining the optimizers
This code defines two optimizers: optim_gen for both generators, and
optim_disc for both discriminators. As a result, during the
backpropagation step, both generators will be trained together, and both
discriminators will be trained together.
Next, create the data loaders as shown in Listing 9-41.
train_loader = dl.DataLoader(train_dataset, batch_size=8, shuffle=True)
test_loader = dl.DataLoader(test_dataset, batch_size=1, shuffle=False)
Listing 9-41: Defining the data loaders
This code sets the batch size to 8 for the training dataset (as usual,
larger batches improve the training but require more memory) and 1 for
the testing dataset. These parameters can be changed according to the
available computational resources.

--- Strana 619 ---
Training the CycleGAN
Now that you’ve prepared your data and instantiated the generators and
discriminators, you’ll implement the training procedure for the
CycleGAN. First, you’ll specify the functions for training and
evaluation. Then you’ll create a training loop to use these functions.
Defining the Training Function
To begin, implement the train_model() function shown in Listing 9-42.
You’ll use this function during every epoch of the training loop.
def train_model(input_images_H, input_images_B, optim_disc, optim_gen, 
                loss_disc, loss_gen, cycle_coef_H=10, cycle_coef_B=5):
    """Train CycleGAN for one batch."""
    # 1. Training discriminators
    optim_disc.zero_grad()
    # Use discriminator B (as a part of the transformation H -> B)
    fake_images_B = gen_H2B(input_images_H)
    disc_B_fakes = disc_B(fake_images_B.detach())
    disc_B_reals = disc_B(input_images_B)
    # Compute discriminator B losses
    disc_B_loss_fake = loss_disc(disc_B_fakes, torch.zeros_like(disc_B_fakes))
    disc_B_loss_real = loss_disc(disc_B_reals, torch.ones_like(disc_B_reals))
    disc_B_loss = disc_B_loss_fake + disc_B_loss_real
    # Use discriminator H (as a part of the transformation B -> H)
    fake_images_H = gen_B2H(input_images_B)
    disc_H_fakes = disc_H(fake_images_H.detach())
    disc_H_reals = disc_H(input_images_H)
    # Compute discriminator H losses
    disc_H_loss_fake = loss_disc(disc_H_fakes, torch.zeros_like(disc_H_fakes))
    disc_H_loss_real = loss_disc(disc_H_reals, torch.ones_like(disc_H_reals))
    disc_H_loss = disc_H_loss_fake + disc_H_loss_real
    # Total discriminator loss, backpropagation, and weight update

--- Strana 620 ---
    disc_loss = (disc_B_loss + disc_H_loss) / 2
    disc_loss.backward()
    optim_disc.step()
    # 2. Training generators
    optim_gen.zero_grad()
 
    # Adversarial loss (from generators perspective)
    disc_H_fakes = disc_H(fake_images_H)
    disc_B_fakes = disc_B(fake_images_B)
    gen_H2B_loss = loss_disc(disc_B_fakes, torch.ones_like(disc_B_fakes))
    gen_B2H_loss = loss_disc(disc_H_fakes, torch.ones_like(disc_H_fakes))
    # 3. Cycle consistency loss
    cycle_images_H = gen_B2H(fake_images_B)
    cycle_images_B = gen_H2B(fake_images_H)
    cycle_H_loss = loss_gen(input_images_H, cycle_images_H)
    cycle_B_loss = loss_gen(input_images_B, cycle_images_B)
    # Total generator loss, backpropagation, and weight update
    gen_loss = (gen_H2B_loss + gen_B2H_loss 
                + cycle_coef_H * cycle_H_loss + cycle_coef_B * cycle_B_loss)
    gen_loss.backward()
    optim_gen.step()
    return disc_loss, gen_loss
Listing 9-42: The function to train the CycleGAN
This function inputs the images of both domains as arguments along
with the optimizers and the cycle_coef_H and cycle_coef_B loss coefficients.
It returns the losses computed for the discriminators and generators.
Before training the discriminators, this code zeroes their optimizer
gradients. Next, to train the bright-field discriminator to detect when
holographic images have been transformed to bright-field, a set of fake
bright-field images generated by gen_H2B is passed through disc_B, which
generates an output for the fake image. Then a set of real bright-field
images from the dataset is passed through the discriminator to generate

--- Strana 621 ---
another output for the real image. Afterward, the losses of both outputs
are computed using the discriminator loss (loss_disc) by setting the label
to 0 for the fake output and 1 for the real output. The combined loss for
the bright-field discriminator is calculated by summing both losses. The
code follows a similar procedure to get the loss of the holography
discriminator. Finally, the losses for both discriminators are averaged to
get a total discriminator loss, which is then used for backpropagation
and for updating the weights of both discriminators.
Subsequently, the code trains the generators. Similar to the
preceding process, it starts by getting the discriminator outputs for fake
images of both domains. Afterward, the adversarial losses are calculated
by setting the labels to 1 in the discriminator loss for the fake outputs.
Finally, the code calculates a cycle consistency loss. For both
generators, the code passes the fake images that mimic a transformation
from one domain into the other through the complementary generator
of the original domain, which outputs an image belonging to the
original domain. In this case, a fake bright-field image is passed through
gen_B2H to generate a holographic image, while a fake holographic image
is passed through gen_H2B to generate the bright-field image. A pixel-wise
loss is then calculated between both these images.
The code then sums the adversarial losses and cycle consistency
losses for both generators to get a total generator loss. The cycle
consistency losses are weighted through the coefficients cycle_coef_H and
cycle_coef_B to control the balance between the pixel-wise error and the
adversarial loss. Afterward, the total loss is backpropagated through the
generators, and the weights for both generators are updated.
In the end, the function returns the generator and discriminator
losses. This process will be repeated for every batch.
Defining the Evaluation Function
For the second stage of the training procedure, implement the
evaluate_model() function shown in Listing 9-43. You’ll use this function
during every epoch of the training loop to visualize the generated
images.

--- Strana 622 ---
def evaluate_model(image_H, image_B):
    """Evaluate CycleGAN on unpaired holographic and bright-field images."""
    # Generate fake images
    gen_H2B.eval(), gen_B2H.eval()
    fake_image_B, fake_image_H = gen_H2B(image_H), gen_B2H(image_B)
    gen_H2B.train(), gen_B2H.train()
 
    fig, axs = plt.subplots(2, 2, figsize=(5, 5))
    img_B_in = image_B[0].permute(1, 2, 0).cpu().detach().numpy()
    img_B_in = (((img_B_in * 0.5) + 0.5) * 255.0).astype(np.uint8)
    axs[0, 0].imshow(img_B_in)
    axs[0, 0].set_title("Input: Brightfield", fontsize=8)
    axs[0, 0].axis("off")
    img_H_out = fake_image_H[0].permute(1, 2, 0).cpu().detach().numpy()
    axs[0, 1].imshow(img_H_out, cmap="gray")
    axs[0, 1].set_title("Output: Holography", fontsize=8)
    axs[0, 1].axis("off")
    img_H_in = image_H[0].permute(1, 2, 0).cpu().detach().numpy()
    axs[1, 0].imshow(img_H_in, cmap="gray")
    axs[1, 0].set_title("Input: Holography", fontsize=8)
    axs[1, 0].axis("off")
    img_B_out = fake_image_B[0].permute(1, 2, 0).cpu().detach().numpy()
    img_B_out = (((img_B_out * 0.5) + 0.5) * 255.0).astype(np.uint8)
    axs[1, 1].imshow(img_B_out)
    axs[1, 1].set_title("Output: Brightfield", fontsize=8)
    axs[1, 1].axis("off")
    plt.show()
    plt.close(fig)
Listing 9-43: The function to evaluate the CycleGAN
This function takes the input images belonging to both domains,
image_H and image_B, as arguments. The code then sets the generators to
evaluation mode, generates images of the other domain, sets the

--- Strana 623 ---
generators back to training mode, and finally plots the input and
generated images of both domains in a grid.
Implementing the Training Cycle
Using the train_model() and evaluate_model() functions you just defined,
you’ll create a training loop, as shown in Listing 9-44.
epochs = 100
for epoch in range(epochs):
    for i, (inputs_H, inputs_B) in enumerate(train_loader, 0):
        inputs_H, inputs_B = inputs_H.to(device), inputs_B.to(device)
        disc_loss, gen_loss = train_model(
            inputs_H, inputs_B, optim_disc, optim_gen, loss_disc, loss_gen,
        )
     
    for test_inputs_H, test_inputs_B in test_loader:
        break
    evaluate_model(test_inputs_H.to(device), test_inputs_B.to(device))
Listing 9-44: Defining the training cycle
This code trains the model for 100 epochs. In each epoch, the
training dataset is processed through the generators and discriminators
in batches. In each batch, the input images belonging to both domains
are extracted and sent to the designated device.
The input images are then fed into the train_model() function for the
CycleGAN training, along with the optimizers, loss functions, and
coefficients for cycle consistency loss. The function then outputs the
total discriminator and generator losses for the processed batch. Finally,
the code processes the images from the test dataset through the
evaluate_model() function to generate and plot output images of the
opposite domains.
Adding Timing and Notifications
You can log the losses for every epoch and add timing and notification
features within the training loop for troubleshooting. This is shown in

--- Strana 624 ---
Listing 9-45.
import time
from datetime import timedelta
--snip--
gen_losses, disc_losses = [], []
for epoch in range(epochs):
    start_time = time.time()
    print("\n" + f"Epoch {epoch + 1}/{epochs}" + "\n" + "-" * 10)
    gen_losses_epoch, disc_losses_epoch = [], []
    for i, data in enumerate(train_loader, 0):
        --snip--
        if i % 20 == 0:
            print(f"Batch {i + 1}/{len(train_loader)} : "
                  f"Generators Loss: {gen_loss.item():.4f}, "
                  f"Discriminators Loss: {disc_loss.item():.4f}")
        gen_losses_epoch.append(gen_loss.item())
        disc_losses_epoch.append(disc_loss.item())
    end_time = time.time()
    gen_losses.append(np.mean(gen_losses_epoch))
    disc_losses.append(np.mean(disc_losses_epoch))
    print("-" * 10 + "\n" + f"Epoch {epoch + 1}/{epochs} : " 
          f"Generators Loss: {gen_losses[-1]:.4f}, "
          f"Discriminators Loss: {disc_losses[-1]:.4f}"
          "\n" + f"Time taken: {timedelta(seconds=end_time - start_time)}")
    --snip--
Listing 9-45: Timing the training and notifying the user
The timing and notification features resemble those in Listings 9-10
and 9-31. For logging the losses, this code creates two empty lists for
the generator and discriminator losses outside the training loop to store
the average losses calculated in every epoch. Within every epoch, the
code creates two more empty lists to store the loss values of each batch.

--- Strana 625 ---
At the end of each epoch, the average values of the second set of lists are
appended to the first set.
You can plot the losses of the generator and discriminator during
training to visualize their dynamic interplay. The generator’s loss
typically starts higher and decreases as the generator learns, while the
discriminator’s loss usually starts lower, indicating the discriminator’s
initial effectiveness.
Significant shifts in the loss curves can indicate improvements in
image quality for one of the domains. For example, downward shifts in
the generator’s loss curve, along with upward shifts in the
discriminator’s loss, suggest that the generator is improving and
producing more-realistic images. By monitoring and comparing these
losses with the generated image quality, you can adjust the training
parameters to achieve better results. For instance, if the generator’s loss
stagnates while the discriminator’s loss decreases too rapidly, you might
lower the discriminator’s learning rate to avoid overpowering the
generator.
Evaluating the Trained CycleGAN
Figure 9-12 shows the results after training for 100 epochs.

--- Strana 626 ---
Figure 9-12: The CycleGAN in action: from holographic to bright-field images (top) and vice
versa (bottom)
You can see that the bright-field generator successfully transforms
the holographic image into a bright-field image (top row), while the
holography generator successfully transforms the bright-field image
into a holographic image (bottom row). You can see that the real

--- Strana 627 ---
positions of the objects are preserved in each image pair, which
illustrates the power of CycleGANs since the dataset didn’t contain
paired images of both domains. Further training can improve the
similarity between real and fake images.
NOTE
Code Example 9-C, “Converting Microscopy Images with a
CycleGAN,” 
is 
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch09_GAN folder and then ec09_C_cyclegan.
The cyclegan.ipynb notebook provides a complete code example that
uses a CycleGAN to convert between holographic and bright-field
images.
Summary
In this chapter, you discovered the power of GANs to create and
transform images. Starting with the foundational principles of their
operation, you witnessed how GANs pit a generator against a
discriminator: The generator tries to create data indistinguishable from
real data, while the discriminator attempts to accurately classify data as
real or generated. This adversarial setup forms the heart of GAN
technology, driving both networks to improve continuously so that the
model can generate increasingly realistic data.
Through hands-on projects, you learned to harness the capabilities
of GANs for a variety of tasks. You started by generating digit images
with a basic GAN model, which demonstrated how GANs shape noise
into recognizable forms. Upon advancing to conditional GANs, you
gained the ability to guide the generation process with specific
conditions, enabling targeted image synthesis.
You then applied these principles to virtual staining to transform
bright-field microscopy images into their fluorescent counterparts
without actual staining, demonstrating the potential of GANs in
biomedical imaging.

--- Strana 628 ---
Finally, you used CycleGANs to tackle the challenge of unpaired
image transformation, converting images between holographic and
bright-field microscopy techniques. This foray into unpaired image
translation highlighted how GANs can adapt to bridge the gap between
imaging modalities, combining their advantages to advance scientific
exploration as well as the practical applications of GANs. Ultimately,
this journey has illustrated the versatility of GANs while equipping you
with the skills to adapt GAN architectures for your unique applications.
In the next chapter, you’ll build on the foundation laid by GANs to
investigate another groundbreaking generative approach: diffusion
models.
Seminal Works and Further Reading
The concept of GANs was first introduced in 2014 by Ian J. Goodfellow
et al. in “Generative Adversarial Networks,” published on arXiv (article
number 1406.2661) and presented at Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems (NeurIPS). This groundbreaking work introduced
the adversarial training framework, where generator and discriminator
networks compete against each other, leading to impressive
improvements in the generation of realistic images.
To improve the quality of generated images and make them
perceptually closer to the real data, Justin Johnson et al. introduced
perceptual loss in 2016 in “Perceptual Losses for Real-Time Style
Transfer and Super-Resolution,” published in Proceedings of the European
Conference on Computer Vision–ECCV 2016 (Lecture Notes in Computer
Science, volume 9906, pages 694–711). Perceptual loss uses feature
representations from pretrained convolutional networks to capture
perceptual differences, which significantly improves the quality of
generated images in tasks like style transfer and super-resolution.
Further advancements in GANs were made in 2017 by Jun-Yan Zhu
et al. in “Unpaired Image-to-Image Translation Using Cycle-Consistent
Adversarial Networks,” published in 2017 IEEE International Conference
on Computer Vision (ICCV 2017, pages 2242–2251). This work
introduced CycleGANs.

--- Strana 629 ---
CHALLENGE PROJECTS
9-1: Advanced denoising with real-world noise patterns 
Tackle the challenge of image denoising with the Darmstadt Noise
dataset (DND), available through the TU Darmstadt website, and
the SIDD Benchmark dataset, available through the York
University website. Focus on removing real-world noise patterns
from images captured under various conditions.
9-2: Cross-domain image translation  Implement cross-
domain image translation between different conditions, such as
day to night or summer to winter. Use the Day-Night dataset and
the Flickr Image dataset from Kaggle for your experiments.
Evaluate the quality and authenticity of the translated images.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 630 ---
10
IMPLEMENTING GENERATIVE AI WITH
DIFFUSION MODELS
In this chapter, you’ll explore diffusion models, the latest torchbearers
in generative AI. Alongside variational autoencoders and generative
adversarial networks (GANs), which you’ve seen in Chapters 4 and 9,
diffusion models have quickly gained acclaim for their exceptional ability
to generate high-quality, lifelike images.
Famous diffusion models include the CompVis Latent Diffusion
models, the OpenAI DALL-E series, Google Imagen, and the
community-driven Stable Diffusion. However, the applications of
diffusion models extend far beyond mere image generation. These
models excel in tasks like image denoising, inpainting, and super-
resolution, often outperforming even the most advanced GANs.
Moreover, diffusion models have significant real-world applications. For
instance, image denoising can improve the clarity of medical images,
aiding in more-accurate diagnostics. Inpainting can be used to restore
damaged historical photographs or artwork, preserving cultural
heritage. Super-resolution techniques can enhance satellite imagery,
allowing for better environmental monitoring and urban planning.

--- Strana 631 ---
To prepare you to apply these tools, this chapter will teach you the
core principles of diffusion models and their connection to diffusion in
physics and mathematics. You’ll then learn how to implement denoising
diffusion probabilistic models (DDPMs) to generate images from noise.
Later, you’ll progress to more-advanced applications of DDPMs, such
as conditional models that turn text prompts into images. Finally, you’ll
see how DDPMs can be used to transform low-resolution images into
high-resolution ones.
Understanding Diffusion
Diffusion is a fundamental concept in physics and mathematics that
describes how particles in a solution spread from regions of higher
concentration to regions of lower concentration. Figure 10-1 illustrates
this process.
Figure 10-1: Physical diffusion
This figure depicts an ensemble of microscopic particles in a
hypothetical solution. At the beginning (left), all particles share the same
position. In subsequent panels, these particles spread out over time as
they collide with the molecules of the surrounding solution. As a result,
the system of particles goes from a highly dense peaked distribution to a
homogeneous distribution. Each particle will take a random-looking
trajectory in position space.
Famously, Robert Brown first observed this phenomenon while
studying the motion of microscopic particles within pollen grains
(hence the name Brownian motion). Later, Albert Einstein explained this
process. Everyday examples of diffusion include perfume spreading in a

--- Strana 632 ---
room without airflow and tea seeping from a bag into hot water, but the
equations derived from studying this process have applications beyond
physics. In the mid-20th century, mathematicians used the concept of
diffusion to develop stochastic differential equations and diffusion equations
to describe the behavior of complex systems such as ecosystems and
markets.
Diffusion has also found analogies in deep learning. For example,
given an image, it’s possible to gradually add noise to it in multiple
steps. This process is like blurring a picture little by little until it’s
entirely unrecognizable, similar to the way particles spread out
randomly in a fluid in their Brownian motion. In this context, the image
is moving through the space of all possible (noisy) versions of itself, and
this process eventually transforms the initial sharp image into a
completely noisy one, as illustrated in Figure 10-2.
Figure 10-2: The forward and reverse diffusion processes for an image
The forward diffusion process involves the sequential addition of noise
to an image until it’s completely corrupted, as illustrated in Figure 10-2
when going from left to right. Conversely, the reverse diffusion process
successively removes noise from an image to generate a clean version, as
illustrated here when going from right to left. Clearly, this is a much
more challenging process, but as you’ll see in this chapter, you can train
a neural network to gradually denoise images in this way.
The processes of forward and reverse diffusion are fundamental to
understanding diffusion models, especially denoising diffusion
probabilistic models, the foundation of more-advanced diffusion
models. In the next section, you’ll learn the details of both processes

--- Strana 633 ---
within the context of machine learning and their application in image
generation.
Breaking Down Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic
Models
Denoising diffusion probabilistic models, or DDPMs, learn the underlying
probabilistic distribution of an image dataset by understanding the
patterns, features, and variations that are common across all images in
the dataset. This means that they can generate images with the same
statistical properties.
Ideally, these generated images will be new and plausible, meaning
that they aren’t present in the original dataset, and a viewer shouldn’t be
able to notice that they are generated images. The ultimate goal is to
create images that are entirely new yet look realistic and fit well within
the style and content of the original dataset.
DDPMs achieve this by modeling both the forward process of adding
noise to images in the dataset until they gradually turn into pure noise,
as well as the reverse process, which gradually generates a clean image
starting from pure noise.
The forward process is a Markov process in the space of all images,
which is the entire set of possible images that can be created by adding
different amounts of noise to an original image. In the context of image
transformation, a Markov process is one that generates the features and
structure of the next image by using only information contained in the
current one. The resulting image is independent of the previous images.
You can see this in the forward process shown in Figure 10-2, where the
next image is just the current image plus some noise, and the new image
doesn’t explicitly depend on the previous images. This is easy to
generate.
Unfortunately, implementing the reverse process is more complex,
requiring the sequential application of neural networks.
In the next sections, you’ll see the forward and reverse diffusion
processes in their mathematical and Pythonic forms. You’ll then use

--- Strana 634 ---
them to train a diffusion model to generate MNIST digits.
Modeling the Forward Diffusion Process
In the forward diffusion process, you iteratively add a small amount of
Gaussian noise to an image until it’s completely corrupted, as shown in
Figure 10-2.
Start with one image from a dataset—for example, the image of a
dog or one of the MNIST digits. Let’s say that the matrix x0 contains
the pixels of the image. The subindex 0 denotes the time t = 0,
corresponding to the original image before noise is added over multiple
time steps.
Each iteration in the forward diffusion process makes the image
slightly noisier by adding Gaussian noise. This can be represented as
follows:
Here, t = 0, 1, . . . , T is the timestep; βt is a time-dependent parameter
known as the variance schedule that controls the amount of noise added at
each step; and nt is a matrix of noise containing a random number for
each pixel of the image, whose values are obtained from a Gaussian
distribution with a mean of 0 and identity covariance. The subindex t in
nt shows that its values are different at each time step, even though the
noise is always sampled from the same normal distribution. This process
generates images that correspond to the probability of a multivariate
Gaussian random variable (a generalization of the Gaussian distribution
to higher dimensions), which is key to the model’s ability to reverse this
process and generate realistic images later.
The βt variable determines how much noise from the nt matrix is
added to the image at step t. The higher the βt value, the more noise is
added. The inventors of the DDPM used a linear schedule for βt that
xt →xt+1 = √1 −βtxt
rescaled image
+ √βtnt
noise
   (10.1)

--- Strana 635 ---
ranges from 0.0001 to 0.02, but other choices are also possible and work
equally well.
You can also understand Equation 10.1 as describing the forward
diffusion in a probabilistic sense with the help of Gaussian distributions,
a useful perspective when working with diffusion models. In fact, you
can view the process of going from xt → xt+1 as a sampling process,
which samples the noisier image, xt+1, from a Gaussian distribution
whose mean and variance depend on the previous image, xt. As you
might have already noticed from Equation 10.1, the mean of this
Gaussian distribution is given by √1 −βtxt and its variance is given by
βtI, where I is the identity matrix. To arrive at Equation 10.1 from this
distribution, you need to use an important property of Gaussian
distributions known as reparameterization. This trick allows you to
write a Gaussian distribution with any mean and variance in terms of
the standard normal distribution, a Gaussian distribution with mean 0
and variance 1. In mathematical terms, you can write a random variable
x ∈N (μ, σ2), in which N (μ, σ2) is a Gaussian distribution with mean
µ and variance σ2, as x = µ + σϵ, where ϵ ∈N (0, 1).
Using Equation 10.1, you can generate the noisy version of the
image at time t + 1, given the image at time t. For example, for an
MNIST digit x0, you can generate its first noisy version x1, then
iteratively use x1 to generate x2, then x2 to generate x3, and so on until
xT. You can repeat this process so that from a single initial image, you
can get multiple different images that have diffused in image space,
similar to the way the particles in Figure 10-1 diffuse in position space.
Deriving the Fast Forward Process
Now that you understand the mathematical model for the forward
process, you can exploit its Markovian nature and the noise’s Gaussian
structure to simplify the computation of the noisy images. This is
crucial because when training the neural network to model the reverse
process, you need many examples of the forward process at different
times.

--- Strana 636 ---
However, since DDPMs require large T values (often on the order
of 1,000), generating all the intermediate noisy images to reach a noisy
image of a specific time step becomes computationally prohibitive.
Luckily, you can use the mathematical properties of the stochastic
process described by Equation 10.1 to jump directly from the initial
image to the image at time t without generating all the intermediate
images. This is known as the fast forward process, represented by this
equation:
Here, αt = Πt
s=1 αs, αt = 1 – βt, and n is still a random variable sampled
from a standard normal distribution with mean 0 and variance 1.
In the rest of this section, you’ll derive Equation 10.2 for the fast
forward process, starting from Equation 10.1. You can safely skip this
part if you aren’t mathematically inclined.
From Equation 10.1, you have this:
Rewriting the previous equation in terms of αt = 1 – βt, you get this:
Now rewrite this equation by expanding xt–1 in terms of xt–2:
In Equation 10.5, you can think of the last two terms as random
variables sampled from two different Gaussian distributions with mean
0, and variances αt(1 – αt–1) for the first term and 1 – αt for the second
term, respectively.
x0 →xt = √αtx0 + √1 −αtn     (10.2)
xt = √1 −βtxt−1 + √βtnt−1
    (10.3)
xt = √αtxt−1 + √1 −αtnt−1
    (10.4)
xt
= √αt (√αt−1xt−2 + √1 −αt−1nt−2) + √1 −αtnt−1
= √αtαt−1xt−2 + √αt (1 −αt−1)nt−2 + √1 −αtnt−1
    (10.5)

--- Strana 637 ---
From the properties of Gaussian distributions, the sum of two
independent Gaussian random variables is also a Gaussian random
variable. Its mean equals the sum of the means of the two random
variables, while its variance is equal to the sum of the variances of the
two random variables. Combining these two properties, you can merge
the last two terms into a single random variable sampled from a
combined Gaussian distribution with mean 0 and variance αt(1 – αt–1) +
1 – αt = 1 – αt–1αt. This gives you the next equation:
xt =
If you repeat this process recursively, you’ll get Equation 10.2.
Modeling the Reverse Diffusion Process
The reverse diffusion process is the opposite of the forward diffusion
process. The idea is to slightly reduce the amount of noise in an image
in each time step so that an initial pure noise image becomes a sharp,
clean image, as in Figure 10-2.
Since the forward process (Equation 10.1) is a Gaussian process, you
can safely assume that the reverse process will have the same structure.
Accordingly, you can use a similar probabilistic intuition as in the
forward process, where you treat the noisier version of the image as
sampled from a Gaussian distribution whose mean and variance depend
on the previous image. In the reverse process, you do the opposite.
Specifically, you treat the cleaner version of the image as sampled from a
Gaussian distribution whose parameters are dependent on the previous
noisy image. With this intuition in mind, the reverse diffusion process
can be written as follows:
Here, m(xt+1, t) and r(xt+1, t) are the mean and variance (respectively) of
the sampled image, which depend on the image at time t + 1 and on the
time step. Note that this equation uses the reparameterization trick as in
√αtαt−1xt−2 + √1 −αt−1αtn     (10.6)
xt+1 →xt = m (xt+1, t)
average image
+
r (xt+1, t)
reverse-process noise
   (10.7)

--- Strana 638 ---
the forward process, where the average image becomes the mean of the
Gaussian distribution, and the reverse-process noise becomes the square
root of the variance (or standard deviation) of this assumed Gaussian
distribution. The challenge of the reverse diffusion process is how to
determine the underlying Gaussian distribution. There are plenty of
ways to do so; for example, you can train a neural network to provide
them.
Let’s start by simplifying the problem and fixing the noise term so
that the neural network needs to learn only the mean of the distribution
of images. You can therefore rewrite Equation 10.7 as follows:
Here, the parameter σt represents the variance of the noise, and rt
represents a matrix of Gaussian random noise. You’ll set the value of the
noise to σt = √βt, even though other choices are possible. For example,
the inventors of DDPM experimented with setting this value to
σt = √~βt, where 
~βt = [1 −αt−1/ (1 −αt)]βt, obtaining similar results.
By setting σt = √βt, you get this:
You now just need to find a way to determine the mean. While this
chapter doesn’t include the details, the inventors of DDPM arrive at the
following expression for the optimal mean value:
Here, nt is the noise used to generate the noisier image xt+1 from xt.
EXERCISE
xt+1 →xt = m(xt+1, t) + σtrt
    (10.8)
xt+1 →xt = m (xt+1, t) + √βtrt
    (10.9)
xt+1 →xt =
1
√αt (xt+1 −
βt
√1−αt nt) + √βtrt
    (10.10)

--- Strana 639 ---
10-1:  The derivation of Equation 10.10 is nontrivial and uses
advanced probability concepts that are beyond the scope of this
chapter. Reproduce the detailed derivation, which you can find in
the appendix of the original article, “Denoising Diffusion
Probabilistic Models” by Jonathan Ho et al., published in 2020 in
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (volume 33, pages
6,480–6,851).
You can substitute βt = 1 – αt to get an expression in terms of αt:
With this equation, you can make the neural network predict the noise
nt, taking the noisy image xt+1 and the corresponding time step t as
inputs. As it turns out, this is a simpler task than asking the neural
network to predict the slightly less noisy image itself xt. If ñ(xt, t) is the
noise predicted by the neural network, the MSE loss is given by this
equation:
This uses the fast forward process in Equation 10.2 to get a more
computationally efficient loss function that can be calculated using the
initial image (x0) instead of the image at time t (xt).
In addition, for the reverse diffusion process, the series of denoised
images will have some randomness. This randomness comes from the
term rt, which is drawn from a random distribution and is therefore
different for each sampling. Through the example in the following
section, you’ll see how this randomness in the reverse diffusion process
leads to the creation of different generated images, even when you start
from the same initial noisy one.
For the moment, think about how the network learns the forward
diffusion process and about the data itself. Remember that all the
xt+1 →xt =
1
√αt (xt+1 −
1−αt
√1−αt nt) + √1 −αtrt
    (10.11)
E = ∥nt −˜n (xt, t)∥2 = nt −˜n (√αtx0 + √1 −αtn, t)
2
    (10.12)

--- Strana 640 ---
network takes as inputs are the noisy image and the time step
corresponding to the noise level of the image. Beyond that, the network
has information about the noise used to generate the noisy image from
the loss function. Now, keep in mind that every time the network sees
the same image, it sees a different noisy version of the image, since a
different noise matrix is added to the noisy image at each time step.
This leads you to the central concept of diffusion trajectory. After
encountering the same image with a different added noise, the network
comes to understand the forward diffusion trajectory of the image for
any randomly sampled noise, thereby learning the reverse diffusion
process. In essence, the network implicitly learns the data distribution
by looking at the data through the lens of noise, much as the GANs in
Chapter 9 learn through a competitive process.
However, the generation process based on a diffusion trajectory
differs from other generative models, like the variational autoencoders
from Chapter 4, which map data to a condensed latent space. This
difference is the main strength of diffusion models. Their power lies in
their exceptional ability to implicitly create an expansive and varied
latent space in a higher-dimensional manifold—a mathematical space
where the data lives, but with many more dimensions than just the pixel
values of the images. In simpler terms, instead of compressing the data
into a smaller, simplified representation (as in autoencoders), diffusion
models operate in a much larger space where subtle variations in the
data can be preserved.
Generating Digits with a Diffusion Model
Now that you understand the equations for forward and reverse
diffusion, you’re ready to build a DDPM to generate handwritten digits
based on the MNIST dataset.
Loading the MNIST Dataset
You’ve encountered the MNIST dataset several times. It consists of
grayscale images of handwritten digits from 0 to 9. Each image is 28×28
pixels, and there are 60,000 training images and 10,000 test images.

--- Strana 641 ---
Here, you’ll load the MNIST dataset via the TorchVision package of
PyTorch.
Before downloading it, you’ll define the transformations and
normalization to apply to the dataset, as shown in Listing 10-1.
from torchvision.transforms import Compose, Normalize, ToTensor
trans = Compose([ToTensor(), Normalize(mean=[0.5], std=[0.5], inplace=True)])
Listing 10-1: Normalizing the MNIST digits
This code converts the images to PyTorch tensors, then normalizes
their pixel values to lie from –1 to 1 (Normalize subtracts mean from the
images and then divides them by std). This is standard practice when
training DDPM models.
You can now import and transform the MNIST digits with Listing
10-2.
from torchvision.datasets import MNIST
trainset = MNIST(root="data", train=True, transform=trans, download=True)
Listing 10-2: Importing the MNIST digits
This code downloads the training set of MNIST data into the data
folder while taking the transformations you’ll apply to the images as an
input parameter. The transformations will be executed during the
training process. Afterward, you can visualize the MNIST digits via
Listing 9-3.
Before proceeding, define the computational device:
device = get_device()
This code uses the get_device() function (Listing 7-10). You can see the
selected device with print(device). Also see the note on page 288 about
the use of MPS.
Implementing the Forward Diffusion Process

--- Strana 642 ---
Next, create a custom Diffusion class that implements the forward
diffusion process for generating noisy versions of MNIST digits, as
shown in Listing 10-3.
class Diffusion:
    """Denoising diffusion probabilistic model (DDPM)."""
 
    def __init__(self, steps=1000, beta_start=1e-4, beta_end=0.02,
                 device=device):
        """Initialize the diffusion model."""
        self.steps, self.device = steps, device
        self.beta = torch.linspace(beta_start, beta_end, steps).to(device)
        self.alpha = 1.0 - self.beta
        self.alpha_bar = torch.cumprod(self.alpha, dim=0)
    def forward_diffusion(self, x, t):
        """Implement the forward diffusion process."""
        sqrt_alpha_bar = torch.sqrt(self.alpha_bar[t])[:, None, None, None]
        sqrt_one_minus_alpha_bar = \
            torch.sqrt(1 - self.alpha_bar[t])[:, None, None, None]
        noise = torch.randn_like(x)
        return sqrt_alpha_bar * x + sqrt_one_minus_alpha_bar * noise, noise
Listing 10-3: Implementing the forward diffusion process
This class uses Equation 10.2 to execute the forward diffusion
process. The __init__() method takes as inputs the number of noise steps
(steps), the parameters to define a noise schedule (beta_start and beta_end),
and the device for the computations (device). Next, the method prepares
a linear noise schedule (beta). The beta value is then used to calculate the
alpha and alpha_bar values, essential terms in the fast forward process
represented in Equation 10.2.
The forward_diffusion() method takes the input image, x, and the time
step, t, to return the noisy version of the image you get by applying the
noise through the fast forward process.
After creating your custom Diffusion class, instantiate it to generate
some noisy versions of a clean image, as shown in Listing 10-4.

--- Strana 643 ---
   diffusion = Diffusion(steps=401, beta_start=0.0001, beta_end=0.02)
➊ clean_image, label = trainset[torch.randint(0, len(trainset), (1,)).squeeze()]
   steps, noisy_images = [0, 100, 200, 300, 400], []
   for t in steps:
    ➋ noisy_image, noise = diffusion.forward_diffusion(
           x=clean_image[None, ...].to(device), t=torch.tensor([t]).to(device),
       )
       noisy_images.append(noisy_image)
Listing 10-4: Sampling images in the forward diffusion process
This code creates the diffusion class with 401 noise steps and beta
values that start at 0.0001 and end at 0.02. Then the code randomly
samples a clean image from the dataset to generate a noisy image ➊.
Four noisy images are generated at intervals of 100 time steps via the
forward_diffusion() method of the Diffusion class ➋. The noisy images are
stored in the noisy_images list.
You can visualize the forward diffusion process in action by plotting
the noisy images with Listing 10-5.
fig, axs = plt.subplots(1, len(steps))
for i, ax in enumerate(axs.flatten()):
    ax.imshow(noisy_images[i].cpu().numpy().squeeze(), cmap="gray")
    ax.set_title(f"t = {steps[i]}", fontsize=10)
    ax.axis("off")
plt.tight_layout()
plt.show()
Listing 10-5: Visualizing the noisy digits generated in the forward diffusion process
This code gets the noisy images generated in Listing 10-4 and plots
them in a sequence. The resulting plot should be similar to Figure 10-3.

--- Strana 644 ---
Figure 10-3: A sequence of images from the forward diffusion process
In the forward diffusion process, the clean image on the left at t = 0
is progressively corrupted, resulting in the pure noise image on the right
at t = 400.
Applying the Reverse Diffusion Process
Now that you’ve finished setting up the forward diffusion process,
you’re ready to implement the reverse diffusion process, as described
earlier in Equation 10.11. You’ll do so by adding a new method to the
Diffusion class, as shown in Listing 10-6.
from tqdm import tqdm
class Diffusion:
    """Denoising diffusion probabilistic model (DDPM)."""
 
    def __init__(..., img_size=28, device=device):
        """Initialize the diffusion model."""
        self.steps, self.img_size, self.device = steps, img_size, device
        --snip--
 
    def reverse_diffusion(self, model, n_images, n_channels, pos_enc_dim, 
                          pos_enc_func, save_time_steps=None):
        """Reverse diffusion process."""
        with torch.no_grad():
         ➊ x = torch.randn(
                (n_images, n_channels, self.img_size, self.img_size)
            ).to(self.device)
         
            denoised_images = []

--- Strana 645 ---
            for i in tqdm(reversed(range(0, self.steps)),
                          desc="U-Net inference", total=self.steps):
             ➋ t = (torch.ones(n_images) * i).long()
                t_pos_enc = (pos_enc_func(t.unsqueeze(1), pos_enc_dim)
                             .to(self.device))
                pred_noise = model(x=x, t=t_pos_enc)
                alpha = self.alpha[t][:, None, None, None]
                alpha_bar = self.alpha_bar[t][:, None, None, None]
                noise = torch.randn_like(x) if i > 0 else torch.zeros_like(x)
             ➌ x = (1 / torch.sqrt(alpha) 
                     * (x - ((1 - alpha) / torch.sqrt(1 - alpha_bar))
                        * pred_noise) 
                     + torch.sqrt(1 - alpha) * noise)
             ➍ if i in save_time_steps: denoised_images.append(x)
            denoised_images = torch.stack(denoised_images).swapaxes(0, 1)
            return denoised_images
Listing 10-6: Implementing the reverse diffusion process (by modifying Listing 10-3)
The Diffusion class is now initialized with the additional img_size
parameter, which controls the image size in the reverse diffusion
process. The value is set to 28 pixels, the same as the MNIST digit
images.
The new reverse_diffusion() method applies the reverse diffusion
process. It starts by creating pure noise images by sampling them from a
Gaussian distribution ➊.
The code then iteratively denoises the image through a for loop,
which runs from steps to 0. The for loop is wrapped with the tqdm
function to track the reverse diffusion process with a progress bar.
Within each iteration, the code creates a time-step value for that
iteration and sets it equal to the loop variable (i). This value is repeated
n_images times to account for sampling n_images ➋.
The code then passes the time-step information through a positional
encoding function given by the pos_enc_func parameter. The purpose of
this is to map the time-step value to an encoded vector of a specified
dimension, given by the pos_enc_dim parameter to capture the temporal

--- Strana 646 ---
information in a way that the network can better understand and use the
time-step data during training. You’ll see the positional_encoding()
function in detail in Listing 10-7.
Next, the code passes the noisy image and the encoded time step
through a U-Net (model) that predicts the noise applied to the image.
You’ll see the architecture and functioning of this model in Listing 10-
10. Using the predicted noise output by the U-Net, the noisy image is
then cleaned via the reverse diffusion process ➌ defined by Equation
10.11. Notice the similarity between the code and the mathematical
forms of the equation.
This process repeats over all time steps, after which the noisy image
is fully denoised. To monitor the noisy image at different steps in the
denoising process, the code stores the intermediate denoised images at
the time steps defined by the save_time_steps parameter into the
denoised_images list ➍, which the method finally returns.
Defining the Positional Encoding Function
You’ll now specify the positional encoding function that converts the
time step from its single-value representation to a vector of specified
dimensions. This new representation helps the model grasp the time-
step information in a more nuanced way. You’ll use a sinusoidal position
function, shown in Listing 10-7.
def positional_encoding(t, enc_dim):
    """Encode position information with a sinusoid."""
    scaled_positions = torch.arange(0, enc_dim, 2).float() / enc_dim
    frequency = 10_000 ** scaled_positions
    inverse_frequency = (1.0 / frequency).to(t.device)
    angle = t.repeat(1, enc_dim // 2) * inverse_frequency
    pos_enc_sin, pos_enc_cos = torch.sin(angle), torch.cos(angle)
    pos_enc = torch.cat([pos_enc_sin, pos_enc_cos], dim=-1)
    return pos_enc
Listing 10-7: The function to implement the positional encoding
This function implements the sinusoidal positional encoding. The
function takes the time step, t, and the dimension of the encoded vector,

--- Strana 647 ---
enc_dim, as inputs and then outputs a vector providing a unique signature
corresponding to each time step.
First, this code creates a sequence of positions that are scaled by the
encoding dimension, scaled_positions. To do so, the code creates an array
with the even numbers from 0 to the encoding dimension and then
divides this array by the encoding dimension. This results in a sequence
with a length equal to half the encoding dimension.
Second, the code creates an array of frequencies, frequency, by raising
the base value of 10,000 to the power of each value in the scaled_positions
array. This exponential operation generates a series of frequencies that
decrease progressively.
Third, the code creates an array of inverse frequencies,
inverse_frequency, by dividing 1.0 by each frequency value in frequency.
Finally, the resulting array is moved to the same device as the input
tensor t. This array of inverse frequencies is essential for the sinusoidal
positional encoding, as it defines the periodicity of the sine and cosine
functions applied later in the process.
Fourth, the code creates the angle tensor by element-wise
multiplying a tensor containing enc_dim // 2 (half the encoding
dimension) copies of t by the inverse_frequency array, effectively scaling
each repeated time-step value by the corresponding inverse frequency.
Fifth, the code applies the sine and cosine functions to the angle
tensor, creating two separate tensors: pos_enc_sin and pos_enc_cos. These
two tensors represent different aspects of the positional encoding, with
each encoding half of the total dimension.
Finally, the code concatenates pos_enc_sin and pos_enc_cos along the last
dimension (dim=-1) to form a complete positional encoding vector. This
final vector, pos_enc, combines the sine and cosine encodings to uniquely
represent the time step in a way that helps the model capture temporal
dependencies in the data. The resulting vector is then returned as the
output of the function.
With this function, you can generate the positional encodings of
different time steps, using Listing 10-8.

--- Strana 648 ---
pos_enc_dim = 256
pos_encs = []
for i in range(0, 100):
    t = torch.tensor([i])
 ➊ pos_enc = positional_encoding(t, pos_enc_dim)
    pos_encs.append(pos_enc.squeeze())
pos_encs = torch.stack(pos_encs)
Listing 10-8: Generating the sinusoidal positional encodings for different time steps
This code starts by setting the dimension of the encoded vector to
256. From there, it generates positional encodings for time steps
starting from 0 to 100 in a for loop ➊. The code then stores the
encodings in a list and stacks them into a torch tensor.
You can visualize the positional encodings with Listing 10-9.
plt.imshow(pos_encs.cpu().numpy())
plt.xlabel("Encoding dimension")
plt.ylabel("Time step (t)")
plt.show()
Listing 10-9: Visualizing the positional encodings
Figure 10-4 shows the resulting image.

--- Strana 649 ---
Figure 10-4: The sinusoidal positional encodings for time steps 0 to 100
Each row in the image corresponds to the positional encoding of a
specific time step. The alternating patterns of the sine and cosine
functions within each vector give a unique signature to each step,
plotted here on the left and right sides of the image, respectively.
Instantiating the Attention U-Net
After you’ve finished generating the positional encodings, you’ll
instantiate a U-Net architecture that will be used to train the diffusion
model. This will be structurally similar to the traditional U-Net in
Chapter 5. The main difference is that the feature maps are now
wrapped with attention layers to integrate the time-step information.
Figure 10-5 illustrates the attention U-Net architecture.

--- Strana 650 ---
Figure 10-5: The attention U-Net architecture
This attention U-Net takes the noisy image and the corresponding
time-step encoding as inputs. Then the attention U-Net outputs an
estimation of the noise applied to the image, which is then used in the
reverse diffusion process, as described previously.
Use the attention U-Net model from the Deeplay package as shown
in Listing 10-10.
import deeplay as dl
unet = dl.AttentionUNet(
    in_channels=1, channels=[32, 64, 128], base_channels=[256, 256], 
    channel_attention=[True, True, True], out_channels=1, 
 ➊ position_embedding_dim=pos_enc_dim,
).build().to(device)
Listing 10-10: Defining the attention U-Net model
This code instantiates AttentionUNet, builds it, and moves it to the
device. You can print the details of the model with print(unet).
The code sets the number of input channels and output channels to
1, since the images are grayscale. It then instantiates the model with
three convolutional layers that have 32, 64, and 128 filters, respectively.
This code also automatically creates the same number of filters for the
upsampling layers. At the bottleneck, the code initializes the U-Net

--- Strana 651 ---
with two additional convolutional layers, each with 256 filters
(base_channels=[256, 256]). You can reduce the number of filters in
downsampling, upsampling, and bottleneck layers if your computational
resources are insufficient.
Unlike the traditional U-Net, the attention U-Net in diffusion
models also takes the time-step positional encodings as an input. The
code integrates time-step encodings into the model at different sections,
as shown in Figure 10-5. First, the code reshapes the encodings to the
dimensions of the feature maps through dense layers. Then it adds them
directly to the feature maps at different levels. To facilitate these
operations, the model also takes the dimension of the positional
encoding vector as input ➊, which in this case is set to 256.
Afterward, the code applies a self-attention mechanism to the
resulting feature map to help the model interpret the relationship
between the noisy image and the corresponding time step. Since the
attention mechanism can be computationally heavy, the channel_attention
parameter is used to control the attention mechanism applied at
different levels. The Boolean values (True or False) switch the attention
on or off at the channels defined in the channels parameter. Here, all the
channel attentions are set to True.
Training the Diffusion Model
With your dataset, forward process, reverse process, and positional
encodings in place, you can proceed to implement the code to train the
diffusion model.
Instantiating the Data Loader, Loss Function, Optimizer, and
Diffusion Class
First, create the data loader as shown in Listing 10-11.
loader = dl.DataLoader(dataset=trainset, batch_size=128, shuffle=True)
Listing 10-11: Defining the data loader
This code defines a data loader using a batch size of 128 and shuffles
the data before creating batches.

--- Strana 652 ---
Next, define a loss function, as shown in Listing 10-12.
criterion = torch.nn.MSELoss()
Listing 10-12: Defining the loss function
This code specifies an MSE loss between the noise predicted by the
model and the actual noise sampled.
Now instantiate the optimizer, as shown in Listing 10-13.
optimizer = torch.optim.AdamW(unet.parameters(), lr=1e-4)
Listing 10-13: Defining the optimizer
This code sets up the Adam optimizer.
Finally, initialize the diffusion class for the actual training of the
model, as shown in Listing 10-14.
diffusion = Diffusion(steps=1000, beta_start=1e-4, beta_end=0.02, img_size=28)
Listing 10-14: Instantiating the diffusion class for training
This code constructs a diffusion class with 1,000 noise steps, with
the image size set to 28×28 pixels, and with noise values ranging from
0.0001 to 0.02.
Implementing the Training Loop
Before implementing the loop, create the prepare_data() helper function
that takes a clean image from the dataset and returns the noisy version
of the image, the time-step encoding, and the noise, which together
constitute the input-output pairs for training the model. This function
is shown in Listing 10-15.
def prepare_data(image, steps=1000, device=device):
    """Prepare data."""
    batch_size = image.shape[0]
 ➊ t = torch.randint(low=0, high=steps, size=(batch_size,)).to(device)
    image = image.to(device)
    x_t, noise = diffusion.forward_diffusion(image, t)

--- Strana 653 ---
 ➋ t_pos_enc = positional_encoding(t.unsqueeze(1), pos_enc_dim)
    return x_t.to(device), t_pos_enc.to(device), noise.to(device)
Listing 10-15: The function to prepare the data
This function creates a batch of random time-step values that fall
from 0 to steps ➊. Then it sends the clean images and the time steps to
the forward_diffusion() method, which returns the noisy versions of the
images and the corresponding noises. The time steps are then sent to
the positional_encoding function to get the time-step encodings ➋. Finally,
the noisy images, noises, and time-step encodings are sent to the device
and returned as outputs of the function.
Once you’ve set up the helper function, implement the training loop
to teach the U-Net to predict the noise in noisy images, as shown in
Listing 10-16.
epochs = 20
for epoch in range(epochs):
    for batch_idx, (images, class_labels) in enumerate(loader, start=0):
        x_t, t_pos_enc, noise = prepare_data(images)
     ➊ outputs = unet(x=x_t, t=t_pos_enc)
        optimizer.zero_grad()
        loss = criterion(outputs, noise)
        loss.backward()
        optimizer.step()
Listing 10-16: Implementing the training cycle
This code trains the attention U-Net to predict the noise present in
the noisy images. The loop runs for 20 epochs, iterating over batches of
clean images and corresponding class labels from the data loader. For
each batch, the clean images are transferred to the prepare_data() function
to generate the noisy image (x_t), the time-step encoding (t_pos_enc), and
the noise (noise) batches.

--- Strana 654 ---
The model then takes the noisy images and time-step encoding as
inputs and returns an estimate of the noise present in the images ➊.
The training begins by setting the gradient buffers of the optimizer
to 0. The code calculates the loss between the predicted noise and the
actual noise via the criterion function. The loss is then backpropagated
through the attention U-Net to calculate its gradients with respect to
each internal parameter of the network. Finally, the optimizer updates
the parameters in the direction that minimizes the loss.
Adding Timing and Notifications
Similar to the GANs in Listing 9-10, you can get real-time feedback on
training progress by including timing and notifications within your
loop, using Listing 10-17.
import time
from datetime import timedelta
--snip--
train_loss = []
for epoch in range(epochs):
 ➊ start_time = time.time()
    print("\n" + f"Epoch {epoch + 1}/{epochs}" + "\n" + "_" * 10)
 
    running_loss = 0.0
    for batch_idx, (image, class_labels) in enumerate(loader, start=0):
        --snip--
        if batch_idx % 100 == 0:
            print(f"Batch {batch_idx + 1}/{len(loader)}: "
                  f"Train loss: {loss.item():.4f}")
        running_loss += loss.item()
    train_loss.append(running_loss / len(loader))
 ➋ end_time = time.time()
    print("-" * 10 + "\n" + f"Epoch {epoch + 1}/{epochs} : " 

--- Strana 655 ---
          f"Train loss: {train_loss[-1]:.4f}, " 
          f"Time taken: {timedelta(seconds=end_time - start_time)}")
Listing 10-17: Timing the training and notifying the user (by modifying Listing 10-16)
The changes to the code are similar to those you made in Listing 9-
10. This code records the time before ➊ and after each epoch ➋,
calculating the time elapsed between the two. To track the loss, the code
initializes the train_loss list to store the average loss in every epoch. The
average loss is computed by updating the running loss for every batch
and dividing by the total number of batches. Throughout the code,
print statements are added to keep track of the loss as the training
progresses.
Plotting the Intermediate Training Results
You can further assess the quality of the images generated by the
diffusion model during training by visualizing the images at the end of
each epoch. Listing 10-18 adds this functionality.
--snip--
n_images, steps = 5, [999, 900, 800, 700, 600, 500, 400, 300, 200, 100, 0]
train_loss = []
for epoch in range(epochs):
 ➊ unet.train()
    --snip--
 ➋ unet.eval()
    generated_images = diffusion.reverse_diffusion(
        model=unet, n_images=n_images, n_channels=1, pos_enc_dim=pos_enc_dim,
        pos_enc_func=positional_encoding, save_time_steps=steps,
    )
    fig = plt.figure(figsize=(len(steps), n_images))
    for idx in range(n_images):
        image_reverse_diff_traj = generated_images[idx]
        for j in range(len(steps)):
            plt.subplot(n_images, len(steps), idx * len(steps) + j + 1)
         ➌ plt.imshow(image_reverse_diff_traj[j]
                       .permute(1, 2, 0).cpu().numpy(), cmap="gray")

--- Strana 656 ---
            plt.axis("off")
            if idx == 0: plt.title(f"t={steps[j]}", fontsize=10)
    plt.show()
    plt.close()
Listing 10-18: Plotting sample images after each epoch (by modifying Listing 10-17)
At the end of every epoch, this code sets the model to evaluation
mode ➋, while returning it to training mode at the beginning of each
epoch ➊. The code then generates n_images images from pure noise
through the reverse diffusion process implemented in the
reverse_diffusion() method.
Additionally, the save_time_steps parameter specifies the time steps at
which the images are returned. Next, the code processes the generated
image to get the reverse diffusion trajectory. Then the code plots the
trajectory ➌.
Figure 10-6 displays an image generated after the full training
course of 20 epochs.
Figure 10-6: The generated images at the end of training
As the model learns to grasp the dataset distribution, the generated
images resemble the actual MNIST digits. The image quality can be

--- Strana 657 ---
improved by tweaking the noise range in the forward diffusion process
via the beta values and by adjusting the model architecture, learning
rates, and epoch number. Setting the beta values higher increases the
noise added in each step, which can make it harder for the model to
denoise the image effectively, potentially leading to blurry outputs.
Conversely, lower beta values might result in less noise, allowing the
model to generate sharper images but risking overfitting to the training
data.
If the images remain blurry or the loss stagnates after plotting, the
beta values could be too high, or the learning rate too low. On the other
hand, if the model quickly produces sharp images but fails to generalize
to new data, this could indicate the need for more epochs or a more
complex model architecture.
Common failure modes include mode collapse, where the model
generates a limited variety of images, and excessive blurring or noise in
the generated images. These issues can often be addressed by carefully
tuning the beta values in the noise scheduler to control the noise levels,
adjusting the learning rates to ensure stable training, and increasing the
number of training epochs to allow the model to learn more-robust
patterns.
Sampling Images from Fixed Noise
Since the model has been trained, you can now take a fixed noise image
and run the reverse diffusion process several times to observe the
different images it generates. For that, you’ll add a new parameter,
fix_noise, to the reverse_diffusion() method, as shown in Listing 10-19.
class Diffusion:
    --snip--
    def reverse_diffusion(..., fix_noise=None, save_time_steps=None):
        """Reverse diffusion process"""
        with torch.no_grad():
            if fix_noise is not None:
                x = fix_noise.to(self.device)
            else:

--- Strana 658 ---
                x = torch.randn(
                    (n_images, n_channels, self.img_size, self.img_size)
                ).to(self.device)
            --snip--
Listing 10-19: The class to perform reverse diffusion with fixed noise (by modifying Listing
10-6)
This code adds the new fix_noise parameter to enable passing fixed
noise to the method instead of randomly sampled noise.
Next, you’ll use Listing 10-20 to run the reverse diffusion process
on a fixed noisy image multiple times to see the generated images.
unet.eval()
fix_noise = torch.randn((1, 1, 28, 28))
n_images_fix_noise = 2
fig = plt.figure(figsize=(len(steps), n_images_fix_noise))
for idx in range(n_images_fix_noise):
    generated_images = diffusion.reverse_diffusion(
        model=unet, n_images=1, n_channels=1, fix_noise=fix_noise,
        pos_enc_dim=pos_enc_dim, pos_enc_func=positional_encoding,
        save_time_steps=steps,
    )
 
    image_reverse_diff_traj = generated_images[0]
    for j in range(len(steps)):
        plt.subplot(n_images_fix_noise, len(steps), idx * len(steps) + j + 1)
        plt.imshow(image_reverse_diff_traj[j]
                   .permute(1, 2, 0).cpu().numpy(), cmap="gray")
        plt.axis("off")
        if idx == 0: plt.title(f"t={steps[j]}", fontsize=10)
plt.show()
Listing 10-20: Obtaining the images from the fixed noise
This code begins by setting the model to evaluation mode. Next, the
code generates a fixed noise image and sets a list of time steps at which
the images should be stored in the reverse diffusion process. Then the

--- Strana 659 ---
code generates two images in a for loop by running the reverse_diffusion()
method. This method takes the fixed noise and the list of time steps to
save images as inputs, in addition to the rest of the parameters from
Listing 10-18. Finally, it plots the reverse diffusion trajectories of the
images generated in each run.
Figure 10-7 shows the results.
Figure 10-7: The images generated from the same fixed noise
Although the starting noise images in the leftmost column are the
same, the resulting images after the reverse diffusion process are
different (rightmost column). This is due to the randomness in the
reverse diffusion process, as indicated in Equation 10.11.
NOTE
Code Example 10-1, “Generating Digits with a Diffusion Model,” is
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate 
to 
the 
Ch10_Diffusion 
folder 
and 
then
ec10_1_ddpm_mnist. The ddpm_mnist.ipynb notebook provides a
complete code example to generate MNIST digits with a diffusion
model.
EXERCISES
10-2:  Modify the attention U-Net architecture by changing the
channels, base_channels, and channel_attention parameters. Switch off

--- Strana 660 ---
the attention at certain channels and then check the model’s
performance.
10-3:  Try a different noise range by changing the beta_start and
beta_end parameters in the Diffusion class and then verify the model
performance. Also, modify the noise scheduler to a nonlinear
function and observe how this affects the model’s performance.
Project 10A: Generating Bespoke Digits
In the preceding section, you learned how to use a diffusion model to
generate random digits resembling those in the MNIST dataset.
However, you might have noticed that this process lacks control over
the digits being produced. There is no direct way to request a particular
digit, such as a 4 or a 2. To address this limitation, you can use a
conditional diffusion model, which conditions the generation process with
class labels.
In this project, you’ll implement a conditional diffusion model to
generate specific digits on demand by incorporating class labels into the
generation process. First, you’ll modify the diffusion model to accept
class labels as input alongside the noise and time step, allowing the
model to learn to generate specific digits. Next, you’ll train the model
on the MNIST dataset, ensuring that it learns to generate the correct
digits. Finally, you’ll test the model, observing how well it can produce
bespoke digits.
You’ll start from the ddpm_mnist.ipynb notebook you implemented in
the first part of this chapter.
Guiding the Diffusion Model
Let’s recall how you trained the conditional GAN in Project 9A to
generate bespoke digits. To accomplish this, you provided the class
labels as additional inputs to the generator and the discriminator. The
generator produced images from noise while accounting for the class
label information, and the discriminator used this information when

--- Strana 661 ---
classifying the generated images as real or fake. Therefore, the
discriminator learned not only to classify the input image as real or fake
but also to check whether it belonged to the labeled class.
In contrast, diffusion models don’t have this built-in guidance
mechanism, since they have only a single network and no adversarial
loss. One solution would be to train an external classifier to learn the
dataset’s class label information and pass it to the diffusion model. At
each step in the reverse diffusion process, the code could then combine
the gradients of the trained classifier model with the noise images
predicted by the diffusion model. This strategy, known as classifier
guidance, resembles the approach used for conditional GANs. Although
this process works well, it complicates the training process because it
requires training two independent networks.
You can avoid this complication by using a classifier-free guidance
approach. In this technique, a single network, the U-Net, is trained both
conditionally and unconditionally by randomly inputting the class labels
into the network at sporadic intervals, effectively providing guidance
without an external classifier.
For the generation process in the reverse diffusion, the model
returns the denoised image at every time step as a linear combination of
two outputs generated by the U-Net: one with class labels and the other
without. An additional weighting factor called guidance strength controls
their relative weight. In this way, the classifier-free guidance approach
preserves the generative power of the diffusion model while eliminating
the need for a separate classifier, making the process less
computationally intensive and more streamlined.
Now that you understand the advantages of this strategy, you’re
ready to implement the classifier-free guidance approach. Starting with
your code from Listing 10-19, integrate classifier-free guidance into the
reverse diffusion process, as shown in Listing 10-21.
class Diffusion:
    --snip--
    def reverse_diffusion(..., class_labels=None, guidance_strength=None):
        --snip--

--- Strana 662 ---
            for i in tqdm(reversed(range(0, self.steps)),
                          desc="UNet inference", total=self.steps):
                --snip--
                if class_labels is None:
                    pred_noise = model(x=x, t=t_pos_enc)
                else:
                    conditional_pred = model(x=x, t=t_pos_enc, y=class_labels)
                    unconditional_pred = model(x=x, t=t_pos_enc, y=None)
                    pred_noise = torch.lerp(unconditional_pred,
                                            conditional_pred,
                                            guidance_strength)
                --snip--
Listing 10-21: Implementing classifier-free guidance (by modifying Listing 10-19)
This code adds the class_labels and guidance_strength parameters to the
reverse diffusion method, enabling the reverse diffusion process to
operate in classifier-free guidance mode. This mode activates when the
class labels are given as input. The U-Net model returns two outputs.
First, the model generates the conditional output where the class labels
are passed as input. Then the model generates the unconditional output
where the class labels are set to None. Finally, the code gets a combined
noise image by linearly interpolating the unconditional and conditional
outputs through the torch.lerp() function, with weights given by the
guidance strength.
Defining the Conditional Attention U-Net
The conditional attention U-Net works similarly to its unconditional
variant from Figure 10-5, except it takes class labels as additional inputs.
When provided, the class labels are passed through an embedding layer,
which transforms them into a vector of a specific dimension, much like
the way you included the class labels in the conditional GANs. Here,
the embedding dimension is set equal to the positional encoding
dimension for the time step to ensure that they can be combined.
Finally, these class embeddings are added to the time-step positional
encodings, and the resulting output is integrated into the U-Net akin to
the time-step encodings in an unconditional attention U-Net.

--- Strana 663 ---
You can set up the conditional attention U-Net by modifying
Listing 10-10 as shown in Listing 10-22.
--snip--
unet = dl.AttentionUNet(..., num_classes=10)
--snip--
Listing 10-22: Instantiating the conditional attention U-Net (by modifying Listing 10-10)
When the num_classes parameter is given as input, AttentionUNet will
automatically operate in a conditional mode. Here, the number of
classes is set to 10, corresponding to the number of digits in the
MNIST dataset.
Training the Conditional Diffusion Model
After modifying your U-Net, you can train the conditional diffusion
model.
The training loop is very similar to that of the unconditional
diffusion model in Listing 10-16. The modifications are highlighted in
Listing 10-23.
import numpy as np
--snip--
for epoch in range(epochs):
    for batch_idx, (images, class_labels) in enumerate(loader, start=0):
        x_t, t_pos_enc, noise = prepare_data(images)
        class_labels = class_labels.to(device)
     ➊ if np.random.rand() < 0.1: class_labels = None
     ➋ outputs = unet(x_t, t=t_pos_enc, y=class_labels)
        --snip--
Listing 10-23: Training a conditional diffusion model (by modifying Listing 10-16)
This code trains the attention U-Net with the classifier-free
guidance approach, which trains the model both conditionally and
unconditionally by randomly dropping the class labels in 10 percent of

--- Strana 664 ---
the cases ➊. The class labels are now given as an additional input to the
model ➋.
Plotting the Intermediate Training Results
You can visualize the images generated for a given class at the end of
each epoch by tweaking your code from Listing 10-18 as shown in
Listing 10-24.
--snip--
n_images, steps = 10, [999, 900, 800, 700, 600, 500, 400, 300, 200, 100, 0]
--snip--
for epoch in range(epochs):
    --snip--
    unet.eval()
    class_labels = torch.arange(0, 10).long().to(device)
    generated_images = diffusion.reverse_diffusion(
        ...,class_labels=class_labels, guidance_strength=3,
    )
--snip--
Listing 10-24: Plotting the sample images after each epoch (by modifying Listing 10-18)
This code sets the class labels for the digits from 0 to 9 and plots the
generated digits as the training progresses. The code then passes the
class label to the reverse_diffusion() method and sets the classifier-free
guidance strength to 3.
Figure 10-8 shows the images generated after 20 epochs.

--- Strana 665 ---
Figure 10-8: The generated images at the end of the training
As you can see, the model can now generate specific MNIST digits
on demand.
NOTE
Code Example 10-A, “Generating Bespoke Digits with a Conditional
Diffusion 
Model,” 
is 
available 
at

--- Strana 666 ---
github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate 
to 
the 
Ch10_Diffusion 
folder 
and 
then
ec10_A_cddpm_mnist. The cddpm_mnist.ipynb notebook provides
a complete code example to generate bespoke MNIST digits with a
conditional diffusion model.
Project 10B: Generating Images from Text Prompts
At the core of popular text-to-image models like DALL-E 3 and Stable
Diffusion lie diffusion models similar to those from the previous
sections. These models take text as a conditional input to generate
images from descriptions, just as you used a class label as a condition in
Project 10A to generate bespoke images of digits. While developing a
state-of-the-art text-to-image diffusion model requires a huge corpus of
text and image data as well as immense computational power, you can
grasp the underlying concepts by combining the diffusion models from
the previous sections of this chapter and the transformer models from
Chapter 8.
In this project, you’ll build your own small-scale text-to-image
model that can generate MNIST handwritten digits in response to
textual prompts. First, you’ll prepare text prompts and implement a
custom text encoder to convert these prompts into embeddings. Next,
you’ll integrate these embeddings into a conditional diffusion model,
modifying the U-Net architecture to process both text and image
information. Finally, you’ll train the model by using classifier-free
guidance and generate MNIST digit images based on the provided text
prompts. You’ll start from the cddpm_mnist.ipynb notebook you
implemented in the preceding project.
Providing a Conditional Text Input
In the preceding project, you provided the model with class labels as a
condition in the form of class embeddings and then trained the
diffusion model through the classifier-free guidance approach.

--- Strana 667 ---
Here, you’ll use textual prompts such as “Generate an image of the
digit one” as conditional inputs. Then you’ll train the model by using
the classifier-free guidance approach, similar to Project 10A. However,
unlike the class labels, which are already in a numeric format and can be
easily converted into class embeddings, the textual prompts are
sequences of words. Consequently, you’ll need to use a text encoder to
convert the text into vector form and generate text embeddings that are
meaningful to the model.
A well-known text encoder used in recent text-to-image diffusion
models is the Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) model
trained by OpenAI. CLIP is a transformer-based model that connects
text and images. It’s trained on a huge corpus of 400 million images and
their corresponding captions scraped from all over the internet. At its
core, CLIP has two encoders: a text encoder that converts the text into a
vectorial representation (the text embedding), and an image encoder
that converts the image to a different vectorial representation called the
image embedding. During training, these embeddings are compared,
using cosine similarity to determine semantic relations between text and
image. This process, known as contrastive learning, ensures that the text
and image embeddings are closely related after the model is trained.
In this project, you’ll first build your own text encoder by using a
small-scale transformer to generate text embeddings. You’ll then use
these embeddings to train a conditional diffusion model through the
classifier-free guidance approach. Later, you’ll see how to use the CLIP
text encoder instead of your own homemade encoder.
Importing the Dataset with Sentences and Corresponding Images
To begin, clone the repository with the MNIST digits:
import os
if not os.path.exists("MNIST_dataset"):
    os.system("git clone https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/MNIST_dataset")
MNIST_path = os.path.join("MNIST_dataset", "mnist", "train")
MNIST_images_files = sorted(os.listdir(MNIST_path))

--- Strana 668 ---
This code downloads the dataset with MNIST digits in the data folder
and then creates the variables containing the path to the 60,000 training
digits (MNIST_path) and the list of all filenames ordered alphabetically
(MNIST_images_files).
Load the sentences corresponding to each digit from the
mnist_sentences.json file:
import json
with open("mnist_sentences.json", "r") as file:
    filenames_sentences = json.load(file)
This creates the filenames_sentences dictionary, with a sentence
corresponding to each MNIST digit file.
You can print some of these sentences as follows:
import random
for filename, sentence in random.sample(filenames_sentences.items(), 100):
    print(f"{filename} : {sentence}")
As you’ll see, the file contains text prompts with varying levels of
difficulty to challenge the model to grasp the text’s meaning. The
simplest sentences are direct requests for a specific digit, like
0_000015.png : Produce the handwritten digit 0.
while more-difficult sentences look like this:
3_002277.png : In the zoological garden, there are five elephants and three 
lions. How many felines are there?
This sentence contains multiple numbers (five elephants and three
lions) and a question asking for a specific digit (How many felines are there?).
Note that the subject in the statement (lions) and the subject of the
question (felines) are synonymous but not the same word, to further
challenge your model. Also, note that the numbers can be written both
as words and as digits.

--- Strana 669 ---
Finally, you can create the training dataset by modifying Listing 10-
2 as shown in Listing 10-25.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
images, digits, sentences = [], [], []
for filename in MNIST_images_files:
    image = plt.imread(os.path.join(MNIST_path, filename))
    images.append(trans(image))
 
    digit = int(filename[0])
    digits.append(digit)
    sentence = filenames_sentences.get(filename, "")
    sentences.append(sentence)
trainset = list(zip(images, digits, sentences))
Listing 10-25: Creating the training dataset with digit images and corresponding sentences
(by modifying Listing 10-2)
This code reads the MNIST images along with their digit labels and
corresponding sentences to create the training dataset. The code first
initializes empty lists for images, digits, and sentences. Then it loops over
each filename in the MNIST image files, reads the image, applies the
trans transformation, and appends it to images. The code extracts the digit
label from the filename (as the first character represents the digit) and
adds that label to digits. The code retrieves the associated sentence from
the filenames_sentences dictionary, using filename as the key (and defaulting
to an empty string if not found), and appends the retrieved sentence to
sentences. Finally, the code combines these three lists into trainset via the
zip() function, resulting in a list of tuples that each contain an image, its
digit label, and the corresponding sentence—ready to be used for
training the text-to-image diffusion model.
Adding a Context Parameter to the Reverse Diffusion
Now you’ll modify the Diffusion class to add an additional parameter
into the reverse_diffusion() method that can take the text information as

--- Strana 670 ---
input when implementing classifier-free guidance. Listing 10-26 shows
the modifications.
class Diffusion:
    --snip--
    def reverse_diffusion(
        ..., save_time_steps=None, context=None, guidance_strength=None,
    ):
        --snip--
            for i in tqdm(reversed(range(0, self.steps)),
                          desc="UNet inference", total=self.steps):
                --snip--
                if context is None:
                    pred_noise = model(x, t_pos_enc)
                else:
                    conditional_pred = model(x, t_pos_enc, context=context)
                    unconditional_pred = model(x, t_pos_enc, context=None)
                --snip--
Listing 10-26: Adding a context parameter to the reverse diffusion class (by modifying
Listing 10-21)
This code substitutes the class label with the context parameter to
incorporate the text information into the model. When the context is
passed to the method, the reverse diffusion process operates in classifier-
free guidance mode, generating two outputs from the U-Net model: a
conditional output with the text information and an unconditional
output without the text information.
Defining a Custom Tokenizer and Text Encoder
Once you’ve prepared the text prompts, the next step is to transform
them into a representation that your model can interpret. You’re already
familiar with tokenization and text encoding from Project 7A. You’ll
follow the same approach here. To begin, you’ll tokenize the text by
splitting the sentences into words and assigning numeric indices for
each word from a custom vocabulary. Then you’ll pass the tokenized
sentence to a trainable text encoder to generate the text embeddings.
From there, you’ll pass the text embeddings to the U-Net as a

--- Strana 671 ---
conditional input, similar to the class embeddings in the preceding
project.
To tokenize the text, you’ll use the same tokenize() function that you
implemented in Listing 7-24. This function breaks the sentences into
individual words while taking care of contractions and punctuation. In
the next section, you’ll use all the words that occur in the training and
test text prompts to build your own vocabulary.
Building a Vocabulary
You can build a custom vocabulary by assigning a numerical value to
each word that occurs in the data. This is shown in Listing 10-27.
with open("test_sentences.txt", "r") as file:
 ➊ test_sentences = [line.strip() for line in file.readlines()]
def sentence_iterator(list_of_sentences):
    """Iterate over a list of sentences to tokenize them."""
    for sentence in list_of_sentences:
        yield tokenize(sentence)
vocab_dict = build_vocab_from_iterator(
    sentence_iterator(sentences + test_sentences), 
    specials=["<sos>", "<eos>", "<pad>", "<unk>"], min_freq=1,
)
vocab = Vocab(vocab_dict, unk_token="<unk>")
vocab.set_default_index(vocab(vocab.unk_token))
Listing 10-27: Building a custom vocabulary
This code first extracts the test sentences from the test_sentences.txt
file ➊. Then the code defines the sentence_iterator() function that iterates
over the text prompts and generates tokens via the tokenize() function
(Listing 7-24). Next, the vocabulary is built with the
build_vocab_from_iterator() function from Listing 7-27 (you’ll also need the
Vocab class from Listing 7-26). This function takes the sentence iterator
as its first input, which iterates over all the text data that will be used for
training and testing. The function also takes the specials parameter,

--- Strana 672 ---
which is the list of special tokens included in the vocabulary. In this
listing, the list contains four special tokens: "<sos>" for start of sequence,
"<eos>" for end of sequence, "<pad>" for padding, and "<unk>" for unknown
words. Finally, the code sets the default index (that is, the index of an
unknown word) to the index of the special token "<unk>".
You can now check the string-to-number mapping:
for word, index in vocab_dict.items(): print(f"{word}: {index}")
This prints a dictionary that maps each word in the vocabulary to its
corresponding numerical index. The output begins with the special
tokens "<sos>", "<eos>", "<pad>", and "<unk>", which are assigned indices
from 0 to 3. Following this, the vocabulary words are listed along with
their indices; for example, "zero" is mapped to 4, "squirrels" to 5, "are" to 6,
and so on, up to words like "seminar" at index 668.
You can now implement the pad_and_process() function in Listing 10-
28.
def pad_and_process(texts, vocab=vocab, max_token_length=77):
    """Pad and process text."""
    batch_tokens = []
    for text_prompt in texts:
        tokens = ([vocab("<sos>")]
                  + [vocab(token) for token in tokenize(text_prompt)]
                  + [vocab("<eos>")])
        if len(tokens) > max_token_length:
            tokens = tokens[:max_token_length]
        else:
            tokens += [vocab("<pad>")] * (max_token_length - len(tokens))
     
        tokens = torch.tensor(tokens, dtype=torch.long)
        batch_tokens.append(tokens)
    return torch.stack(batch_tokens)
Listing 10-28: The function to pad and process text

--- Strana 673 ---
This function processes each text prompt in the input list by
tokenizing it, adding special start-of-sequence "<sos>" and end-of-
sequence "<eos>" tokens. The function then adjusts the sequence length
to a fixed max_token_length by either truncating excess tokens or padding
shorter sequences with "<pad>" tokens. Finally, it converts each sequence
into a PyTorch tensor and stacks all tensors into a single batch tensor.
Using this function, you can observe a tokenized version of an
example text prompt by using the following code:
_, _, example_sentence = random.choice(trainset)
tokens = pad_and_process([example_sentence])
print(example_sentence), print(tokens);
This code will generate a random text prompt from the training set and
will print something similar to this:
In the forest, there are four squirrels and one owls. How many birds are there?
tensor([[  0,  42,   9, 450,  11,  22,   6, 199,   5,  26,  88, 451,  15,  16,
          17, 455,   6,  22,  19,   1,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,
           2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,
           2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,
           2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,
           2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2,   2]])
The tokenized version of the text prompt starts with the starting index
(0), followed by word indices and the end index (1). The sequence is
then padded with the pad index (2) up to the maximum length (77
tokens).
Implementing a Custom Text Encoder
Having generated the tokenized text, you can implement a simple text
encoder based on the transformer architecture in Chapter 8. Text
encoders use the self-attention mechanism to understand the
relationship between words in a text and their underlying meaning.
Listing 10-29 defines a text encoder.

--- Strana 674 ---
class TextEncoder(torch.nn.Module):
    """Text encoder."""
    def __init__(self, max_token_length, vocab_size, embedding_dim, num_heads):
        """Initialize the text encoder module."""
        super(TextEncoder, self).__init__()
     
     ➊ self.token_embedding = torch.nn.Embedding(vocab_size, embedding_dim)
     ➋ self.position_encoding = positional_encoding(
            torch.arange(0, max_token_length).unsqueeze(1), embedding_dim,
        )
     ➌ self.self_attention = torch.nn.MultiheadAttention(
            embedding_dim, num_heads=num_heads, batch_first=True,
        )
        self.layer_norm1 = torch.nn.LayerNorm(embedding_dim)
        self.layer_norm2 = torch.nn.LayerNorm(embedding_dim)
     ➍ self.feed_forward = torch.nn.Sequential(
            torch.nn.Linear(embedding_dim, embedding_dim), torch.nn.GELU(),
            torch.nn.Linear(embedding_dim, embedding_dim),
        )
    def forward(self, tokens):
        """Forward pass of text encoder module."""
     ➎ token_embeddings = self.token_embedding(tokens)
     ➏ position_encodings = (self.position_encoding
                              .repeat(tokens.size(0), 1, 1).to(tokens.device))
     ➐ token_embeddings_with_pos = token_embeddings + position_encodings
        normalized_embeddings = self.layer_norm1(token_embeddings_with_pos)
     ➑
        attention_output, _ = self.self_attention(query=normalized_embeddings,
                                                  key=normalized_embeddings,
                                                  value=normalized_embeddings)
        attention_output = attention_output + normalized_embeddings

--- Strana 675 ---
        residual_input = attention_output
        normalized_attention_output = self.layer_norm2(attention_output)
     ➒ feed_forward_output = self.feed_forward(normalized_attention_output)
        residual_output = feed_forward_output + residual_input
        return residual_output
Listing 10-29: The class implementing a custom text encoder
The TextEncoder class is initialized by implementing the token
embedding layer ➊. As training progresses, this layer maps all the
indices in the vocabulary to a higher-dimensional vector, given by the
embedding_dim parameter. Because transformer architectures lack an
inherent notion of token order, this class also creates the positional
encodings of numbers ranging from 0 to the max token length, using
the sinusoidal positional encoding function that you defined in Listing
10-7 ➋. The class then sets up a multi-head attention layer ➌ and a
feed-forward network ➍. Together, these constitute the basic units of a
transformer, as you saw in Chapter 8.
In the forward() method, the token embeddings are generated via the
token embedding layer ➎, and the positional encodings ➏ are added
together to get a new embedding. This embedding contains the token
information in higher dimensions while also preserving the token order
➐. Subsequently, this output is processed through the basic transformer
action, first by applying the self-attention mechanism ➑, then by
passing the output through the feed-forward network ➒ to generate the
final text embedding.
Once you’ve defined it, you can instantiate the custom text encoder
with Listing 10-30.
custom_text_encoder = TextEncoder(
    max_token_length=77, vocab_size=len(vocab), embedding_dim=768, num_heads=4,
).to(device)
Listing 10-30: Instantiating a custom text encoder

--- Strana 676 ---
This code instantiates the text encoder by setting max_token_length to
77, vocab_size to the length of the vocabulary from Listing 10-27, the
embedding dimension to 768, and the number of heads in the multi-head
attention to 4. The model is then sent to the selected computational
device.
You can check the shape of example text prompts as follows:
_, _, example_sentence = random.choice(trainset)
tokens = pad_and_process([example_sentence])
text_embedding = custom_text_encoder(tokens.to(device))
print(f"tokens shape: {tokens.shape}")
print(f"text embeddings shape: {text_embedding.shape}")
This code samples a text prompt from the training set, passes it through
the tokenizer, and finally processes it with the text encoder. Here’s the
output:
tokens shape: torch.Size([1, 77])
text embeddings shape: torch.Size([1, 77, 768])
The first dimension indicates the batch size (the number of sampled
texts). The second dimension indicates the token length (set to 77). The
third dimension in the text embedding shape indicates the size of the
embedding, which projects each of the 77 tokens into a vector of 768
dimensions.
With this machinery to properly process the text data, you’ll
instantiate a conditional attention U-Net that takes this text
information as an input.
Defining the Conditional Attention U-Net
The conditional attention U-Net for the text-to-image model works
similarly to the network that you defined for class-conditioned image
generation in Project 10A. The difference now is that the text prompts
are given as conditional inputs.
Recall that in the preceding project, the time steps and class labels
were merged into the attention U-Net. Here, the text prompts,

--- Strana 677 ---
provided in the form of text embeddings, are also integrated into the
attention U-Net at various sections through its feature maps, as shown
in Figure 10-5. In this process, the text embeddings are first projected
onto the dimensions of each feature map. Afterward, a cross-attention
mechanism is applied between the feature maps and the projected text
embedding. In other words, the attention mechanism gets queries from
the feature maps, and the keys and values from the text embedding. The
current project requires the time-step positional encodings and class
embeddings to be directly added to the feature maps and then the self-
attention. In contrast, for text embeddings, a cross-attention mechanism
is computed directly between the feature maps and the text embeddings.
These projects require different approaches because in the
preceding project, the time step and class labels contained fixed and
direct information. Conversely, text embeddings contain rich, detailed,
and context-specific information. In turn, the cross-attention
mechanism allows for a more sophisticated and selective merging of text
and image features, ensuring that the textual information effectively
guides the image generation.
You can implement the conditional attention U-Net for text-to-
image generation by adapting Listing 10-10 as shown in Listing 10-31.
--snip--
unet_template = dl.AttentionUNet(..., context_embedding_dim=768)
unet = unet_template.create().to(device)
Listing 10-31: Instantiating the conditional attention U-Net (by modifying Listing 10-10)
This code creates a template for the attention U-Net (unet_template)
and then uses it to create a concrete instance of the U-Net (unet). Later
you’ll reuse the template to create a second U-Net when training it with
the CLIP tokenizer. With the context_embedding_dim parameter given as
input, AttentionUNet takes the text information as input and operates as a
conditional model. Here, the context embedding dimension is set to
768, the same value used to instantiate the text encoder in Listing 10-
30.
Training the Conditional Diffusion Model

--- Strana 678 ---
Once you’ve set up the U-Net, you can train the text-to-image diffusion
model. Start by defining the data loaders with Listing 10-11 and the loss
function with Listing 10-12, then instantiate the Diffusion class from
Listing 10-14.
Next, you’ll need to modify the optimizer from Listing 10-13. Since
you’ll be training the text encoder in addition to the attention U-Net,
you must add its parameters to the optimizer, as shown in Listing 10-32.
optimizer = torch.optim.AdamW(
    list(unet.parameters()) + list(custom_text_encoder.parameters()), lr=1e-4,
)
Listing 10-32: Defining the optimizer (by modifying Listing 10-13)
This code provides the list of parameters for the text encoder to be
updated during training, along with the existing parameters for the
attention U-Net.
The training loop shown in Listing 10-33 resembles that of the
conditional diffusion model from Listing 10-23, which generated
bespoke MNIST digits using classifier-free guidance.
--snip--
n_images, steps = 5, [999, 900, 800, 700, 600, 500, 400, 300, 200, 100, 0]
--snip--
for epoch in range(epochs):
    for batch_idx, (images, _, sentences) in enumerate(loader, start=0):
        x_t, t_pos_enc, noise = prepare_data(images)
     
     ➊ tokens = pad_and_process(sentences)
     ➋ text_embeddings = custom_text_encoder(tokens.to(device))
        context = None if np.random.rand() < 0.1 else text_embeddings
        outputs = unet(x_t, t_pos_enc, context=context)
        --snip--
Listing 10-33: Training a conditional diffusion model (by modifying Listing 10-23)
This code tokenizes the text prompts ➊ and passes them through
the custom text encoder to generate the text embeddings ➋. The text

--- Strana 679 ---
embeddings are stored in the context variable and are input to the model
through the context parameter. The code trains the attention U-Net
through the classifier-free guidance approach, training the model both
conditionally and unconditionally by randomly dropping the text
embeddings in 10 percent of cases.
Plotting the Intermediate Training Results
Now that you’ve implemented the training loop, you can use Listing
10-34 to visualize images generated for the example text prompts at the
end of each epoch.
   --snip--
➊ example_sentences = random.sample(test_sentences, n_images)
   for epoch in range(epochs):
       unet.train(), custom_text_encoder.train()
       --snip--
       unet.eval(), custom_text_encoder.eval()
    ➋ tokens = pad_and_process(example_sentences)
    ➌ text_embeddings = custom_text_encoder(tokens.to(device))
       generated_images = diffusion.reverse_diffusion(
           ..., save_time_steps=save_time_steps, 
           context=text_embeddings, guidance_strength=3,
       )
       --snip--
       fig = plt.figure(figsize=(len(save_time_steps), 1.2 * n_images))
       for idx in range(n_images):
           image_reverse_diff_traj = generated_images[idx]
           for j in range(len(steps)):
               --snip--
               if j == 5: plt.title(example_sentences[idx], fontsize=10)
   --snip--
Listing 10-34: Plotting the sample images from the text prompt after each epoch (by
modifying Listing 10-24)
This code starts by extracting five random validation text prompts
that the model will use to create images ➊. When the code enters the
training cycle, it first sets the attention U-Net and the custom_text_encoder

--- Strana 680 ---
to evaluation mode, similar to previous projects. Next, the code
tokenizes the text prompts ➋ and generates the corresponding text
embeddings by passing the tokens through the text encoder ➌.
Afterward, the code initiates the reverse diffusion function by setting
the number of images to the number of text prompts, the context
parameter to take the text embeddings, and the classifier-free guidance
strength to 3. Finally, this code plots the reverse diffusion trajectory of
each of the 10 generated images, setting the image titles to their
corresponding text prompts.
Figure 10-9 shows the generated images after 20 epochs.
Figure 10-9: The generated images at the end of the training after 20 epochs
The digits not only are clearly visible against the black background
but also correspond to the correct numbers in the text prompts,
meaning that the model grasps the contextual meaning of the prompt as
it generates each image. The model produces the requested number
even when the text includes multiple numbers.

--- Strana 681 ---
Training with the CLIP Tokenizer and CLIP Text Encoder
As an alternative to implementing your own tokenizer and text encoder,
you can use pretrained tokenizers and text encoders trained on large
corpora of image-caption data. Pretrained tokenizers and text encoders
are particularly advantageous when textual descriptions and their
corresponding images are more complex.
First, create another concrete instance of the attention U-Net:
unet_clip = unet_template.create().to(device)
Then remove the custom_text_encoder parameters from the optimizer in
Listing 10-32, creating the following:
optimizer_clip = torch.optim.AdamW(unet_clip.parameters(), lr=1e-4)
Next, import the pretrained CLIP tokenizer and CLIP text encoder
from the transformers package, as shown in Listing 10-35.
from transformers import CLIPTextModel, CLIPTokenizer
CLIP_tokenizer = CLIPTokenizer.from_pretrained(
    "openai/clip-vit-large-patch14", torch_dtype=torch.float32,
)
CLIP_text_encoder = CLIPTextModel.from_pretrained(
    "openai/clip-vit-large-patch14", torch_dtype=torch.float32,
).to(device)
Listing 10-35: Importing the CLIP tokenizer and CLIP text encoder
This code loads the pretrained CLIP text model and tokenizer.
You can now check the tokens and the text embeddings of an
example text prompt generated by CLIP with the following commands:
example_sentence = random.choice(test_sentences)
tokens = CLIP_tokenizer(example_sentence, padding="max_length",
                     ➊ max_length=CLIP_tokenizer.model_max_length,
                        truncation=True, return_tensors="pt")
text_embedding = CLIP_text_encoder(tokens.input_ids.to(device))[0]
print(example_sentence), print(tokens.input_ids)

--- Strana 682 ---
print(f"tokens shape: {tokens.input_ids.shape}")
print(f"text embeddings: {text_embedding.shape}")
This code samples an example text prompt and passes it through the
CLIP tokenizer to generate tokens. The maximum length is again set to
77, the maximum token length the CLIP model can offer ➊. Finally, the
code generates the text embeddings by passing the tokens through the
CLIP text encoder.
The print statements at the end of the code produce the following
outputs:
In the forest, there are four squirrels and one owls. How many birds are there?
tensor([[49406,   530,   518,  4167,   267,   997,   631,  2721, 26623,   537,
           637, 18247,   269,   829,  1346,  4337,   631,   997,   286, 49407,
         49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407,
         49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407,
         49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407,
         49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407,
         49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407,
         49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407, 49407]])
tokens shape: torch.Size([1, 77])
text embeddings: torch.Size([1, 77, 768])
CLIP assigns 49406 for the sentence start and 49407 for the sentence end
and padding. The text embedding shape is the same as that of your
custom text encoder.
By making minor changes to your existing training loop, you can
retrain the text-to-image diffusion model with a CLIP tokenizer and
text encoder. First, since the CLIP text encoder is already pretrained,
you should set the gradients of the CLIP text encoder to False, freezing
its weights as follows:
for param in CLIP_text_encoder.parameters():
    param.requires_grad = False
This code loops through the parameters for the CLIP text encoder and
disables the gradient computation, ensuring that the weights are frozen.

--- Strana 683 ---
Next, alter the training loop from Listing 10-33 to pass the text
inputs through the CLIP tokenizer and CLIP text encoder instead of
your custom tokenizer and text encoder, as shown in Listing 10-36.
--snip--
for epoch in range(epochs):
    for batch_idx, (images, class_labels) in enumerate(loader, start=0):
        unet_clip.train()
        --snip--
        tokens = CLIP_tokenizer(
            sentences, padding="max_length",
            max_length=CLIP_tokenizer.model_max_length, truncation=True,
            return_tensors="pt",
        )
        text_embeddings = CLIP_text_encoder(tokens.input_ids.to(device))[0]
        --snip--
        outputs = unet_clip(x=x_t, t=t_pos_enc, context=context)
        optimizer_clip.zero_grad()
        loss = criterion(outputs, noise)
        loss.backward()
        optimizer_clip.step()
        --snip--
    unet_clip.eval()
    --snip--
    tokens = CLIP_tokenizer(
        example_sentences, padding="max_length",
        max_length=CLIP_tokenizer.model_max_length, truncation=True,
        return_tensors="pt",
    )
    text_embeddings = CLIP_text_encoder(tokens.input_ids.to(device))[0]
    generated_images = diffusion.reverse_diffusion(model=unet_clip, ...)
    --snip--
Listing 10-36: Training with CLIP (by modifying Listing 10-34)
This code passes the generated text prompts in each batch through
the CLIP tokenizer. Then the resulting tokens are fed into the CLIP

--- Strana 684 ---
text encoder to generate the text embeddings.
The results will be similar to those of the custom tokenizer and text
encoder. In general, you should determine whether to use CLIP or a
custom implementation based on the complexity of your specific task
and your need for custom modifications and control. Keep in mind that
text-to-image performance is highly contingent on the input text data.
With a greater number and variety of text prompts, the quality and
relevance of the generated images can improve significantly.
NOTE
Code Example 10-B, “Generating Images of Digits from Text
Prompts,” 
is 
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate 
to 
the 
Ch10_Diffusion 
folder 
and 
then
ec10_B_text2image. The text2image.ipynb notebook provides a
complete code example to generate MNIST digits from text prompts.
The mnist_sentences.json and test_sentences.txt files provide the
text data used for training and testing.
Project 10C: Generating Super-Resolution Images
Over a century ago, the microscopist Ernst Abbe devised an equation
showing that the resolution of an optical microscope is limited by the
wavelength of the light used to illuminate the sample. In practice, this
limit, known as Abbe’s diffraction limit, means that it isn’t possible to
distinguish details separated by less than 200 nm with an optical
microscope. For scale, the diameter of a DNA molecule is about 2 nm,
approximately 100 times smaller than this limit. Since then, the quest to
surpass this limit and develop techniques for high-resolution imaging of
cellular and subcellular structures has driven significant advances in
biomedical research, leading to the advent of super-resolution microscopy.
Unfortunately, this breakthrough technique is expensive, requires
complex instrumentation, and is not readily accessible.

--- Strana 685 ---
In this project, you’ll explore a possible solution to this challenge.
You’ll use a conditional diffusion model to transform a low-resolution
microscopic image of a biological structure into its high-resolution
counterpart without the need for advanced and costly microscopes.
Importantly, this approach is not limited to optical microscopy but can
be applied to various types of low-resolution images, such as
photographs, to achieve exceptional resolution and detail.
Downloading the BioSR Dataset
For this project, you’ll use images of microtubules from the BioSR
dataset originally published in 2021 by Chang Qiao and co-workers in
Nature Methods (volume 18, pages 194–202). Because the original images
need to be reformatted and preprocessed, we’ve uploaded the processed
images to a GitHub repository. This processed dataset contains 40,320
image pairs for training and 2,080 image pairs for testing. Each image is
128×128 pixels. You can download this dataset from the GitHub
repository with Listing 10-37.
import os
if not os.path.exists("biosr_dataset"):
    os.system("git clone https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/biosr_dataset")
Listing 10-37: Downloading the BioSR dataset of microtubules
This code checks whether the dataset directory already exists. If not,
the dataset is downloaded from the GitHub repository.
Managing the Dataset
Once you’ve downloaded the dataset, you can create a custom dataset
class to load the images, apply the required transformations, and return
the images and their corresponding labels. This is shown in Listing 10-
38.
import torch
from tifffile import tifffile as tiff

--- Strana 686 ---
class BioSRDataset(torch.utils.data.Dataset):
    """Dataset class to load the BioSR dataset."""
    def __init__(self, lr_dir, hr_dir, transform):
        """Initialize dataset."""
        self.lr_dir, self.hr_dir, self.transform = lr_dir, hr_dir, transform
     ➊ self.files = [file for file in os.listdir(self.lr_dir) 
                          if file.endswith(".tif")]
    def __len__(self):
        """Return the number of image pairs."""
     ➋ return len(self.files)
    def __getitem__(self, index):
        """Get a low-resolution--high-resolution image pair."""
        lr_image = tiff.imread(os.path.join(self.lr_dir, self.files[index]))
        hr_image = tiff.imread(os.path.join(self.hr_dir, self.files[index]))
        if self.transform:
            lr_image = self.transform(lr_image)
            hr_image = self.transform(hr_image)
        return lr_image, hr_image
Listing 10-38: The dataset class to manage the images
This class permits you to load the images in small batches without
having to load the entire dataset into memory before training. The class
takes three input parameters: lr_dir sets the directory for the low-
resolution images, hr_dir sets the directory for the high-resolution
images, and transform contains the transformations to be applied to the
images. The initialization method concludes by saving a list of available
.tiff files in the low-resolution image folder ➊. The dataset length is the
length of the file list ➋.
The __getitem__() method loads the low- and high-resolution images
corresponding to index, applies the transformations, and returns them.
Preprocessing the Images

--- Strana 687 ---
Next, you’ll define the necessary transformations and normalization to
apply to the dataset, as shown in Listing 10-39.
from torchvision.transforms import Compose, Normalize, ToTensor
transform = Compose([ToTensor(), Normalize(mean=(0.5,), std=(0.5,))])
Listing 10-39: Implementing the necessary transformations and normalizations
This code defines the transformation for the low-resolution and
high-resolution images, which transforms the images to PyTorch
tensors and then normalizes them so that their pixel values range from –
1 to 1.
Creating the Training and Test Datasets
Now that you’ve preprocessed the images, create the training and test
datasets with Listing 10-40.
root = os.path.join("biosr_dataset", "BioSR", "Microtubules")
train_set = BioSRDataset(lr_dir=os.path.join(root, "training_wf"),
                         hr_dir=os.path.join(root, "training_gt"),
                         transform=transform)
test_set = BioSRDataset(lr_dir=os.path.join(root, "test_wf", "level_09"),
                        hr_dir=os.path.join(root, "test_gt"),
                        transform=transform)
Listing 10-40: Creating the datasets
You can now visualize some example images, using Listing 10-41.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np
lr_image, hr_image = train_set[np.random.randint(0, len(train_set))]
plt.subplot(1, 2, 1)
plt.imshow(lr_image.permute(1, 2, 0), cmap="gray")
plt.title("Low-resolution image")
plt.subplot(1, 2, 2)

--- Strana 688 ---
plt.imshow(hr_image.permute(1, 2, 0), cmap="gray")
plt.title("High-resolution image")
plt.tight_layout()
plt.show()
Listing 10-41: Plotting a low-resolution and high-resolution image pair
This code samples a random low- and high-resolution image pair
from the training dataset and plots them side by side. Figure 10-10
shows an example.
Figure 10-10: Low-resolution (left) and high-resolution (right) images of microtubules
The low-resolution image is significantly blurred in comparison to
its high-resolution counterpart, which has details of the microtubules
that are more clearly visible.
Adapting the Diffusion Process for Super-Resolution
In the previous projects of this chapter, you generated MNIST digits
from noise and various conditional inputs. You applied the forward
diffusion process to MNIST images to add noise, while in the reverse
diffusion process you generated images from pure noise by using an

--- Strana 689 ---
attention U-Net. You provided conditional inputs like class labels and
text as parameters to the model.
In the super-resolution task, the difference lies in the conditional
input and target. Both are in image format: one low resolution and one
high resolution. For this project, you’ll apply the forward diffusion
process to the high-resolution image. You’ll then concatenate the low-
resolution image with the noisy image to provide as input to the
attention U-Net. This adaptation allows the diffusion model to learn
the underlying probabilistic distribution of the high-resolution images
based on the corresponding low-resolution images.
Define the computational device with
device = get_device()
which uses the get_device() function defined in Listing 7-10 (also see the
note on page 288 about the use of MPS). Then you can easily make the
change to the reverse diffusion process by modifying Listing 10-19 as
shown in Listing 10-42.
class Diffusion:
    """Denoising diffusion probabilistic model (DDPM)."""
    --snip--
 
    def reverse_diffusion(--snip--, input_image, fix_noise=None, ...):
        """Reverse diffusion process"""
        --snip--
            for i in tqdm(reversed(range(0, self.steps)),
                          desc="UNet inference", total=self.steps):
                --snip--
                pred_noise = model(
                    torch.cat((input_image.to(self.device), x), dim=1),
                    t_pos_enc,
                )
        --snip--
Listing 10-42: Implementing reverse diffusion for super-resolution (by modifying Listing 10-
19)

--- Strana 690 ---
This code adds the input_image parameter to the reverse diffusion
process, enabling it to perform image-to-image translation tasks. In this
case, the low-resolution image given as an input is concatenated to the
noisy image before being fed through the attention U-Net.
Defining the Conditional Attention U-Net
Similarly to the way you modified the reverse diffusion method, you can
adapt the conditional attention U-Net from Listing 10-10 for this
super-resolution task, with Listing 10-43.
--snip--
pos_enc_dim = 256
model = dl.AttentionUNet(
    in_channels=2, ...,
    channel_attention=[False, False, False], ...,
).build().to(device)
Listing 10-43: Instantiating the conditional attention U-Net (by modifying Listing 10-10)
This code sets the number of input channels to 2 to account for the
noise image and low-resolution image that have been concatenated and
passed as a conditional input. To conserve memory and speed up the
training, the code turns off the attention mechanism by setting the
channel attentions of the feature maps to False.
Training the Conditional Diffusion Model
After completing these modifications, you can train the conditional
diffusion model for super-resolution.
Defining the Data Loaders, Diffusion Class, and Loss Function
To begin, you’ll define two data loaders for the training and test
datasets, as shown in Listing 10-44.

--- Strana 691 ---
train_loader = dl.DataLoader(train_set, batch_size=64, shuffle=True)
test_loader = dl.DataLoader(test_set, batch_size=64, shuffle=False)
Listing 10-44: Defining the data loaders
This code defines training and test data loaders with a batch size of
64. The training loader shuffles the data before creating batches. You
can adjust the batch size depending on your computational resources.
Next, instantiate the diffusion class:
diffusion = Diffusion(steps=2000, img_size=128, beta_start=1e-6, beta_end=0.01)
This code instantiates a diffusion class with 2,000 noise steps, an
image size of 128, and noise values ranging from 0.000001 to 0.01.
Now specify the loss function:
criterion = torch.nn.L1Loss()
This code calculates an L1 loss between the noise predicted by the
model and the actual noise sampled, in contrast to the L2 loss in
previous projects.
Once you’ve modified the loss function, you can define the
positional encoding function from Listing 10-7 and the optimizer from
Listing 10-13.
Finally, before implementing the training loop, you’ll need to alter
the prepare_data() helper function from Listing 10-15 to take both the
low-resolution and high-resolution images as inputs and return the
concatenated noisy image, the time-step encoding, and the noise applied
during the forward diffusion process. Listing 10-45 shows these
modifications.
def prepare_data(input_image, target_image, steps=2000, device=device):
    """Prepare data."""
    batch_size = input_image.shape[0]
    t = torch.randint(low=0, high=steps, size=(batch_size,)).to(device)
    input_image, target_image = input_image.to(device), target_image.to(device)
 ➊ x_t, noise = diffusion.forward_diffusion(target_image, t)
 ➋ x_t = torch.cat((input_image, x_t), dim=1)

--- Strana 692 ---
    t_pos_enc = positional_encoding(t.unsqueeze(1), pos_enc_dim)
    return x_t.to(device), t_pos_enc.to(device), noise.to(device)
Listing 10-45: The function to prepare the super-resolution data (by modifying Listing 10-
15)
This function takes two images as inputs, the low-resolution input
image and the high-resolution target image. The function processes the
target image by the forward diffusion process ➊ and concatenates the
input image with the noisy image ➋. The function then returns the
concatenated noisy image (which includes both the low-resolution and
noisy high-resolution components), the time-step encoding, and the
noise applied during the forward diffusion process.
Implementing the Training Loop
Now you’re ready to implement the training loop to teach the diffusion
model to generate high-resolution images from low-resolution images.
The training loop is similar to Listing 10-17, with some minor
modifications shown in Listing 10-46.
epochs = 30
for epoch in range(epochs):
    --snip--
    for batch_idx, (input_images, target_images) in enumerate(train_loader):
        x_t, t_pos_enc, noise = prepare_data(input_images, target_images)
        --snip--
        if batch_idx % 100 == 0:
            print(f"Batch {batch_idx + 1}/{len(train_loader)}: "
                  f"Train loss: {loss.item():.4f}")
        --snip--
    train_loss.append(running_loss / len(train_loader))
Listing 10-46: Training a conditional diffusion model for the super-resolution task (by
modifying Listing 10-17)
This code trains the attention U-Net for the super-resolution task,
increasing the number of epochs to 30. The images are passed through
the updated prepare_data() function, which outputs the noisy image, the

--- Strana 693 ---
time step, and the noise step. The rest of the training loop is the same as
in Listing 10-17.
Plotting the Intermediate Training Results
You can now modify the working training loop to visualize the high-
resolution images generated from a set of low-resolution images at the
end of each epoch, as shown in Listing 10-47.
--snip--
for epoch in range(epochs):
    unet.train()
    --snip--
    unet.eval()
    for test_input_images, test_target_images in test_loader:
        generated_images = diffusion.reverse_diffusion(
            model=unet, n_images=1, n_channels=1, 
            pos_enc_dim=pos_enc_dim, pos_enc_func=positional_encoding, 
            input_image=test_input_images[:1], save_time_steps=[0],
        )
        break
    lr_image = test_input_images[0]
    image_diff_traj = generated_images[0]
    hr_generated_image = image_diff_traj[-1]
    target_image = test_target_images[0]
    fig = plt.figure(figsize=(7, 3))
    plt.subplot(1, 3, 1)
    plt.imshow(lr_image.permute(1, 2, 0), cmap="gray")
    plt.title("Input")
    plt.axis("off")
 
    plt.subplot(1, 3, 2)
    plt.imshow(hr_generated_image.permute(1, 2, 0).cpu().numpy(), cmap="gray")
    plt.title("Output")
    plt.axis("off")
 

--- Strana 694 ---
    plt.subplot(1, 3, 3)
    plt.imshow(target_image.permute(1, 2, 0), cmap="gray")
    plt.title("Target")
    plt.axis("off")
    plt.tight_layout()
    plt.show()
    plt.close()
Listing 10-47: Plotting images after each epoch (by modifying Listing 10-46)
This code extracts the test low-resolution and high-resolution
images from the test loader, passes the low-resolution images to the
reverse diffusion process, and extracts the generated high-resolution
image by setting the save_time_steps parameter to the last time step,
which is 0. Then the code plots the input low-resolution image, the
generated high-resolution image, and the target high-resolution image
side by side for visualization and comparison.
Figure 10-11 shows the generated images after 30 epochs.
Figure 10-11: The low-resolution input image (left), generated high-resolution image
(center), and target high-resolution image (right) after 30 epochs
The generated high-resolution image (center) is very similar to the
target high-resolution image (right).
NOTE

--- Strana 695 ---
Code Example 10-C, “Generating Super-Resolution Images,” is
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate 
to 
the 
Ch10_Diffusion 
folder 
and 
then
ec10_C_superresolution. The superresolution.ipynb notebook
provides a complete code example to increase the resolution of
microscopy images by using a diffusion model.
Summary
In this chapter, you learned about diffusion models and how they can be
applied to generate and transform images. You began by discovering the
underlying concepts and equations behind diffusion models. You then
explored how diffusion models can be trained to generate random
MNIST digits and how to plot intermediate results to ensure the
model’s progress.
The first project involved generating bespoke digits by using a
conditional diffusion model. You learned to guide the generation
process by conditioning the model on specific inputs.
Building on this foundation, the second project introduced you to
the concept of generating images from text prompts. This section
taught you how to provide text inputs as conditions to the diffusion
model.
The final project tackled the challenge of generating super-
resolution images. Using the BioSR dataset, this project demonstrated
how to adapt the diffusion process for super-resolution tasks,
culminating in the generation of high-resolution images from low-
resolution counterparts.
Since diffusion models are among the most innovative tools in deep
learning, you’re now ideally positioned to take advantage of their
potential in a wide array of applications. As these models evolve, their
versatility and power will open up new possibilities and advancements in
various fields over the coming years. For instance, in health care,
diffusion models could revolutionize medical imaging by enhancing the

--- Strana 696 ---
resolution of scans, enabling earlier and more-accurate diagnoses. In
creative industries, these models could generate high-quality,
photorealistic images for use in films, video games, and virtual reality,
pushing the boundaries of what’s visually possible. Additionally, in
scientific research, diffusion models might assist in simulating complex
physical systems or generating detailed molecular structures,
accelerating discoveries in areas like drug development and materials
science.
Seminal Works and Further Reading
The concept of diffusion models was first introduced in 2015 by Jascha
Sohl-Dickstein et al. in “Deep Unsupervised Learning Using
Nonequilibrium Thermodynamics,” published in Proceedings of the 32nd
International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML 2015, volume 37,
pages 2,256–2,265). This work established the theoretical basis for
diffusion models.
A key advancement came in 2020 with Jonathan Ho et al. in
“Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models,” published in 34th
Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2020,
volume 33, pages 6,840–6,851). This work introduced DDPMs, which
generate data by progressively adding noise during training and
learning to reverse the process.
In 2021, Prafulla Dhariwal and Alexander Nichol further improved
diffusion models in “Diffusion Models Beat GANs on Image Synthesis,”
published in NeurIPS 2021 (volume 34, pages 8,780–8,794). Their work
demonstrated that diffusion models could outperform GANs on key
image synthesis benchmarks, offering higher-quality image generation.
The application of diffusion models was extended in 2022 by
Chitwan Saharia et al. in “Image Super-Resolution via Iterative
Refinement,” published in IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and
Machine Intelligence (volume 45, pages 4,713–4,726). They presented
SR3, a method that applied diffusion models to image super-resolution,
using iterative refinement to up-scale low-resolution images,

--- Strana 697 ---
demonstrating the versatility of diffusion models beyond traditional
generation tasks.
Another significant contribution came from Robin Rombach et al. in
2022 in “High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion
Models,” published in Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR, pages 10,674–10,685). This work
introduced latent diffusion models, which diffuse in a lower-
dimensional latent space, making the process more computationally
efficient while still generating high-quality, high-resolution images.
An extended version of the super-resolution example was published
in 2025 by Harshith Bachimanchi and Giovanni Volpe in “Diffusion
Models for Super-Resolution Microscopy: A Tutorial,” published in
Journal of Physics: Photonics (volume 7, article 013001). Their tutorial
provided practical insights into using diffusion models to improve
spatial resolution in microscopy images, reinforcing the versatility of
diffusion models in microscopy applications.
CHALLENGE PROJECTS
10-1: Super-resolution on natural images  Apply a diffusion
model to enhance the resolution of natural images such as
landscapes or portraits. Use a publicly available dataset like the
DIV2K dataset, which contains high-quality images and their
lower-resolution counterparts.
10-2: Text-to-image generation with a custom dataset 
Create a text-to-image generation model using a custom dataset of
your choice. Collect a dataset of image-caption pairs from sources
such as Flickr 8k or Common Objects in Context (COCO).
Preprocess the text and images, train a conditional diffusion
model, and test its ability to generate images based on the
provided text prompts. Analyze the coherence and quality of the
generated images.

--- Strana 698 ---
10-3: Enhancement of medical imaging data  Utilize a
diffusion model to improve the resolution of medical images, such
as MRI or CT scans. Access a publicly available medical imaging
dataset, like the MICCAI BRATS dataset. Train your model to
enhance the resolution of these images and assess the
improvements in visual clarity and diagnostic utility.
10-4: Domain-specific image generation  Implement a
diffusion model to generate images in a specific domain, such as
fashion, architecture, or food. Gather a dataset relevant to your
chosen domain. For example, for fashion, use the DeepFashion
dataset. For architecture, use the CMP Facade Database. For food,
use the Food-101 dataset. Preprocess the images and train the
model to generate new, high-quality images. Evaluate the model’s
performance by examining the creativity and relevance of the
generated images.
10-5: Multimodal image enhancement  Develop a multimodal
diffusion model that can enhance images by incorporating
additional modalities, such as depth information or thermal
imaging. Use datasets like the NYU Depth V2 dataset, which
provides RGB and depth images, or the FLIR ADAS dataset,
which includes RGB and thermal images. Preprocess the data and
train your model. Evaluate the model’s ability to improve image
quality by integrating information from the additional modalities.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 699 ---
11
MODELING MOLECULES AND COMPLEX
SYSTEMS WITH GRAPH NEURAL
NETWORKS
In this chapter, you’ll explore graph neural networks, a family of deep
learning models tailored to analyze graph-structured data. Because they
can grasp relationships within the structures of graphs, graph neural
networks are ideal for uncovering complex patterns within data.
As they’ve grown popular in recent years, these networks have been
applied to a wide range of problems. The main reason for their success
is that graph neural networks exploit the way graphs represent
connections and interactions among objects. For example, in molecular
property prediction, graph neural networks can predict how a molecule
might behave based on the connections between its atoms. In protein
structure determination, these networks help predict the 3D structure
of proteins by analyzing the relationships between amino acids. In
algorithmic reasoning, these networks might tackle complex tasks like
sorting or finding the shortest path by representing these tasks as graph
problems. In particle tracking, graph neural networks can analyze the

--- Strana 700 ---
trajectories of particles in physics experiments by understanding the
connections between their movements.
You’ll first learn the basic concepts behind graph neural networks by
using them to estimate the properties of molecules. You’ll discover how
to improve a basic graph neural network’s predictive accuracy by adding
message passing. You’ll then apply these tools to two projects:
simulating complex physical phenomena and tracking the motion of
cells.
Understanding Graph Convolutions
A graph is a fundamental mathematical structure that models the way
things are connected or related to one another. A graph is composed of
nodes (also known as vertices) and edges (sometimes referred to as links or
connections). Edges, which represent the relationships or interactions
between nodes, are crucial as they often carry valuable information
about the nature of these connections, such as the strength of a bond in
a molecule or the frequency of communication between individuals in a
social network. This simple yet powerful concept allows you to map
networks of all kinds, from the web of social interactions connecting
individuals to the routes that form transportation networks. In this way,
graphs provide a universal language to describe and analyze the patterns
and connections of various domains, such as biology, computer science,
social science, and more.
Graph neural networks are ideally suited to analyze graphs. They
apply graph convolutions. These are analogous to the image convolutions
used in image analysis by the convolutional neural networks in Chapter
3. Image convolutions use filters that take advantage of the uniform grid
of pixels that make up most images. However, graphs are irregular
structures of nodes and edges without a fixed pattern. This irregularity
requires redefining convolutions to fit graphs. This is done by
aggregating and weighing information from a node’s connected
neighbors. In this process, graph convolutions use the graph structure to
direct information flow during data processing. For example, in social
network analysis, a graph convolution could be used to predict a

--- Strana 701 ---
person’s preferences by considering the preferences of their friends
(connected nodes). The model thus aggregates and weighs the
information from these connections, using the structure of the social
network graph to inform its predictions.
For example, consider a simple cycle graph like the one on the left
side of Figure 11-1. This graph consists of five nodes connected by
directed edges in a cycle.
Figure 11-1: A cycle graph (left), its adjacency matrix (middle), and the evolution of its
node attributes as a graph convolution is applied multiple times (right)
The middle of Figure 11-1 shows the adjacency matrix, A, which
numerically represents this graph. Its rows and columns correspond to
the nodes, while a nonzero entry indicates an edge, marked here with a
black square. Each entry Aij is set to 1 if there is a link going from node
i to node j. Otherwise, the entry remains 0. This matrix representation
of the graph is particularly useful for computational analyses.
You can get this adjacency matrix with Listing 11-1.
import numpy as np
node_num = 5
A = np.zeros((node_num, node_num))
for i in range(node_num):
    for j in range(node_num):
        if j % node_num == (i + 1) % node_num:
         ➊ A[i, j] = 1
Listing 11-1: Calculating the adjacency matrix of a simple cycle graph

--- Strana 702 ---
This code defines the adjacency matrix A of the graph shown in
Figure 11-1. The code starts by creating an empty matrix corresponding
to a graph without edges. Then the code iterates through all possible
edges, going from node i to node j. If there is an edge in the graph, the
code changes the matrix element from 0 to 1 to represent the
connection between this node and the next one with a (directed) edge
➊.
You can print the resulting adjacency matrix with print(f"A: {A}"),
which returns the following:
A: [[0. 1. 0. 0. 0.]
 [0. 0. 1. 0. 0.]
 [0. 0. 0. 1. 0.]
 [0. 0. 0. 0. 1.]
 [1. 0. 0. 0. 0.]]
Here, you can notice the edges going from nodes 0 to 1, 1 to 2, 2 to 3, 3
to 4, and, closing the cycle, 4 to 0.
NOTE
The adjacency matrix A can represent both directed and undirected
graphs. In a directed graph, an entry Aij = 1 indicates a directed edge
from node i to node j, corresponding to the direction of information
flow. Instead, in an undirected graph, both Aij and Aji must have the
same value. This reflects the bidirectional edges allowing information
to flow in both directions, resulting in a symmetric adjacency matrix.
You can now introduce node attributes (also known as node features).
These are properties assigned to the nodes that help describe their
characteristics or roles within the graph. For example, in the graph of a
social network, node attributes could include a person’s age, location, or
interests. In a molecular graph, node attributes might represent an
atom’s type, charge, or bond structure. You can use Listing 11-2 to
assign a single attribute to each node in the cycle graph.

--- Strana 703 ---
node_attributes = np.zeros(node_num)
node_attributes[0] = 1
Listing 11-2: Assigning node attributes
After creating the node_attributes vector, this code assigns a value of 1
to the first node. You can print these node attributes with
print(f{"node_attributes:{node_attributes}"), which returns the following:
node_attributes: [1. 0. 0. 0. 0.]
In Figure 11-1, these properties are shown as boxes next to each node in
the graph, with the filled box representing the node with attribute 1.
A graph convolution transforms the node attributes by using the
adjacency matrix for guidance. You can implement the graph_convolution()
function with Listing 11-3.
def graph_convolution(A, node_attributes):
    """Calculate graph convolution."""
    conv = np.zeros(node_num)
    for i in range(node_num):
        for j in range(node_num):
         ➊ conv[j] = conv[j] + A[i, j] * node_attributes[i]
    return conv
Listing 11-3: The function to implement a graph convolution
This function starts by initializing the conv vector to contain the
graph-convolved node attributes. Then, for each edge going from node
i to node j, the function multiplies the original attribute value of node i
by the edge from node i to node j, then adds the result to the graph-
convolved node attribute corresponding to node j ➊.
Next, you can iteratively apply the graph convolution to get new
node attributes, using Listing 11-4.
for c in range(5):
    node_attributes = graph_convolution(A, node_attributes)
    print(f"Convolution {c + 1}: {node_attributes}")
Listing 11-4: Applying the graph convolution

--- Strana 704 ---
This loop runs for five steps, but you can use a different number.
During each iteration, the vector containing the node attributes is
updated through a graph convolution operation and then printed. The
resulting graph convolutions are shown here:
Convolution 1: [0. 1. 0. 0. 0.]
Convolution 2: [0. 0. 1. 0. 0.]
Convolution 3: [0. 0. 0. 1. 0.]
Convolution 4: [0. 0. 0. 0. 1.]
Convolution 5: [1. 0. 0. 0. 0.]
Reflecting this graph’s cyclic nature, each convolution step propagates
each node’s attributes to its immediate neighbor based on the structure
stored in the adjacency matrix. As illustrated in the right panel of Figure
11-1, the output shows how the attribute initially set at the first node
(indexed at 0) travels along the directed edges of the graph. After each
iteration, the attribute moves to the next node in the sequence. This
sequential updating of attributes across the graph continues until the
attribute with value 1 completes a cycle and returns to the first node,
demonstrating how graph convolutions facilitate the flow and
transformation of information across a network’s structure.
EXERCISES
11-1:  Enlarge your cycle graph to include more nodes, and
initiate several nodes with nonzero attributes. Apply graph
convolutions iteratively. Observe how the distribution of node
attributes over the graph evolves. What patterns emerge from
different initial attribute configurations?
11-2:  Convert your cycle graph into an undirected graph by
making each connection reciprocal. Reapply the graph
convolution operations and observe the resulting explosion of
node attributes, a phenomenon of attribute values escalating
quickly over iterations. To counteract this effect, implement a

--- Strana 705 ---
normalization step that divides each node attribute by its degree
(the number of edges connected to the node). Analyze how this
normalization influences the distribution of attributes after several
convolutions.
11-3:  Construct a noncyclical graph by designing a more
complex adjacency matrix where at least some nodes aren’t part of
a loop. Introduce node attributes and apply graph convolution
operations. Observe the spread of attributes across the noncyclical
graph. Consider how the absence of cycles affects the propagation
of attributes and what it implies about how information can spread
in noncyclical structures.
Predicting Molecular Properties with Graph
Convolutions
Now that you understand the basic concept behind graph convolutions,
you can use them to predict molecular properties. Scientists often need
to predict properties such as a molecule’s solubility, toxicity, or binding
affinity to specific proteins. Traditional methods, like molecular
dynamics simulations, have been used for these predictions, but they can
be computationally intensive and may not capture complex interactions
effectively. Graph neural networks are particularly well suited to this
task because they can naturally represent molecules as graphs, with
atoms as nodes and chemical bonds as edges, allowing the model to
consider the complex relationships among these elements.
To see this in action, you’ll implement a graph convolution layer and
apply it to predict the solubility of a molecule in fat from a graph
representation of its structure. First, you’ll define the graph convolution
layer and apply it to a simple molecular graph. Next, you’ll extend this
implementation to more-complex molecules, using the ZINC dataset.
Finally, you’ll evaluate the model’s performance in predicting the
solubility of the molecules. Note that unlike the directed graph example
from the preceding section, this task will involve undirected graphs.

--- Strana 706 ---
Implementing a Graph Convolution Layer
Implementing a graph convolution layer typically involves three
sequential operations:
1. Transform the attributes of each node through a learnable
function. This transformation prepares the node attributes for
further processing, allowing the graph convolution layer to learn
complex representations of the nodes’ attributes.
2. Propagate the information across the graph. During this step, each
node receives the transformed attributes from its neighbors, thus
aggregating information from its local neighborhood.
3. Update each node’s aggregated attributes based on the
information collected during the propagation step. This typically
involves applying another learnable function or a nonlinear
activation function to the aggregated attributes.
You can implement a simple graph convolution by using Listing 11-
5.
import torch
class GraphConvolution(torch.nn.Module):
    """Graph convolution."""
 
    def forward(self, A, node_attr):
        """Compute the graph convolution."""
     ➊ return torch.matmul(A, node_attr)
Listing 11-5: The class to define a graph convolution
This class implements a simple graph convolution for an undirected
graph. The forward pass is implemented by multiplying the adjacency
matrix by the node attribute vector ➊.
EXERCISE

--- Strana 707 ---
11-4:  Show that, for undirected graphs, the expression
torch.matmul (A, x) used by the class GraphConvolution in Listing 11-5 is
equivalent to the more explicit convolution used by the
graph_convolution() function in Listing 11-3. Also show that, for
directed graphs, the expression is torch.matmul(np.transpose(A), x).
Once you’ve defined a simple convolution, you can create a graph
convolution layer with Listing 11-6.
import deeplay as dl
class GCL(dl.DeeplayModule):
    """Graph convolution layer."""
 
    def __init__(self, in_feats, out_feats):
        """Initialize graph convolution layer."""
        super().__init__()
        self.transform = dl.Layer(torch.nn.Linear, in_feats, out_feats)
        self.propagate = dl.Layer(GraphConvolution)
        self.update = dl.Layer(torch.nn.ReLU)
    def forward(self, A, node_attr):
        """Transform, propagate, and update the node attributes."""
        transformed_node_attr = self.transform(node_attr)
        propagated_node_attr = self.propagate(A, transformed_node_attr)
        updated_node_attr = self.update(propagated_node_attr)
        return updated_node_attr
Listing 11-6: The class to define a graph convolution layer
This class instantiates a simple graph convolution layer containing
the transform, propagate, and update operations. The transform
operation uses a linear layer to transform the original node attributes
with in_feats dimensions into a new attribute space with out_feats
dimensions. The propagate operation shares the transformed attributes
with other nodes via the GraphConvolution class. Finally, after the
transformed attributes are propagated across the graph, the update

--- Strana 708 ---
operation applies a nonlinear activation function to the aggregated
attributes to produce the final node attributes.
You can now further improve the graph convolution layer in Listing
11-6. In fact, it has two major limitations that hinder its real-world
effectiveness. First, while it aggregates attributes from neighboring
nodes, it doesn’t consider the node’s own attributes. However, a node’s
intrinsic attributes often play an important role in the convolution
operation, influencing the outcome and effectiveness of the model. This
issue can be solved by adding edges that represent self-loops, which lie
on the adjacency matrix’s diagonal.
The second major limitation is that A has not been normalized.
Without normalization, nodes with a higher degree (a greater number
of neighbors) will possess larger aggregated attribute values than those
with fewer neighbors. This discrepancy can lead to pronounced variance
in the aggregated attributes, potentially skewing the model’s
performance and its ability to generalize across the graph.
Listing 11-7 introduces self-loops and normalization into the class
representing the graph convolution.
--snip--
class GCL(dl.DeeplayModule):
    --snip--
    def add_self_loops(self, A):
        """Add diagonal self-loops to adjacency matrix."""
     ➊ return A + torch.eye(A.size(0)).to(A.device)
    def normalize(self, A):
        """Normalize adjacency matrix."""
     ➋ node_degrees = torch.sum(A, dim=1)
     ➌ inv_sqrt_node_degrees = node_degrees.pow(-0.5)
     ➍ inv_sqrt_node_degrees[inv_sqrt_node_degrees == float("inf")] = 0
     ➎ diag_matrix = torch.diag(inv_sqrt_node_degrees)
     ➏ return torch.matmul(torch.matmul(diag_matrix, A), diag_matrix)
 
    def forward(self, A, node_attr):
        """Transform, propagate, and update the node attributes.""" 

--- Strana 709 ---
        A = self.normalize(self.add_self_loops(A))
        --snip--
Listing 11-7: The class to improve the graph convolution (by modifying Listing 11-6)
This code adds the add_self_loops() and normalize() methods to the GCL
class. The add_self_loops() method adds self-loops to the adjacency matrix
by adding the identity matrix ➊.
The normalize() method normalizes the adjacency matrix. This
method calculates the degree of each node as the sum of its connections
➋. Then the method scales each degree by its reciprocal square root ➌
and replaces infinite values with 0 ➍, ensuring stable computation.
Afterward, the method constructs a diagonal degree matrix with the
reciprocal square roots of the degrees ➎. Finally, it applies symmetric
normalization to the adjacency matrix by multiplying it by the degree
matrix on both sides ➏, balancing the influence of each node’s attributes
during the aggregation step.
The forward pass applies the add_self_loops() and normalize() methods
to the adjacency matrix before propagating the transformed attributes.
Representing a Molecule as a Graph
In the rest of this section, you’ll apply the graph convolution layer
you’ve implemented to predict properties of molecules based on their
structure.
Before doing this, you need to represent the arrangement of atoms
in a molecule as a graph. Figure 11-2 demonstrates how to do so.

--- Strana 710 ---
Figure 11-2: A molecule (left), its corresponding graph (middle), and its adjacency matrix
(right)
The diagram on the left represents the chemical structure of the
molecule toluene with an added methoxy group, a methyl group (CH3)
attached to an oxygen atom. The presence of this methoxy group makes
this compound a methoxybenzene, commonly known as an anisole. This
organic compound has a sweet smell and is often found in natural and
artificial fragrances.
The middle diagram abstracts the molecular structure into a graph
representation, with the nodes representing the atoms and the edges
representing the chemical bonds between them. The diagram on the
right converts this graph into an adjacency matrix, A, where each entry
Aij is set to 1 if a link exists between nodes i and j, and 0 otherwise.
Using the ZINC Dataset
The ZINC dataset is a collection of molecular graphs. The dataset
provides a crucial resource for computational chemistry, especially in
fields like drug discovery. Your goal with this dataset will be to predict a
molecule’s penalized water-octanol partition coefficient, commonly
abbreviated as logP. The logP value measures a molecule’s lipophilicity,
which indicates the solubility of the molecule in fat as compared to
water.
This coefficient is important in drug discovery since it impacts a
drug’s absorption, distribution, metabolic interactions, and excretion
properties. Compounds with optimal logP values are more likely to pass
through cell membranes, making them potentially effective as

--- Strana 711 ---
pharmaceuticals. Therefore, accurately predicting this measure can
streamline the process of identifying new drug candidates by
highlighting molecules with desirable logP values.
Downloading the ZINC Dataset
Start by downloading the dataset, using Listing 11-8.
from torch_geometric.datasets import ZINC
train_set = ZINC(root="ZINC_dataset/", subset=True, split="train")
val_set = ZINC(root="ZINC_dataset/", subset=True, split="val")
test_set = ZINC(root="ZINC_dataset/", subset=True, split="test")
Listing 11-8: Downloading the ZINC dataset
This code automatically downloads and prepares the data by
splitting it into groups for training (10,000 molecules), validation (1,000
molecules), and testing (1,000 molecules).
Visualizing the ZINC Dataset
In the ZINC dataset, each molecule is represented as a graph, with
nodes and edges describing atoms and chemical bonds, respectively. The
plot_molecule() function in Listing 11-9 displays a molecule’s structure by
visualizing its adjacency matrix.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from matplotlib import colormaps
from torch_geometric.utils import to_dense_adj
def plot_molecule(molecule):
    """Plot adjacency matrix of a molecule."""
 ➊ node_attr = molecule["x"].numpy().squeeze()  # Atom type numbers
 ➋ A = to_dense_adj(molecule["edge_index"]).numpy().squeeze(0)
 ➌ logP = molecule["y"].item()
 
 ➍ plt.matshow(A, cmap=colormaps["gray"].reversed())
    plt.title(f"LogP={np.round(logP, 2)}", fontsize=24)

--- Strana 712 ---
    plt.xlabel("Atom type", fontsize=16)
    plt.xticks(np.arange(len(node_attr)), node_attr, fontsize=12)
    plt.ylabel("Atom type", fontsize=16)
    plt.yticks(np.arange(len(node_attr)), node_attr, fontsize=12)
    ax = plt.gca()
    ax.xaxis.set_ticks_position("bottom")
    plt.show()
Listing 11-9: The function to plot the adjacency matrix of a molecule
This function takes the graph representation of a molecule as input,
which contains node attributes as a list of numbers corresponding to the
atom types (molecule["x"]), edge connectivity as a list of paired indices
corresponding to the nodes connected by an edge (molecule["edge_index"]),
and a target property (molecule["y"]), which in this case is a scalar with
the logP. Within this function, the list of atoms is converted into a
NumPy array ➊. The adjacency matrix A is computed from the edge
connectivity tensor ➋. Finally, the logP is taken from the target
property ➌.
Next, the function plots the adjacency matrix ➍. The presence of an
edge is colored in black, while the other cells are left white. The atom
type number is displayed in every row and column.
You can visualize the structure of three example molecules from the
training dataset:
for molecule_index in [2, 1235, 9887]:
    plot_molecule(molecule=train_set[molecule_index])
Figure 11-3 shows the resulting plots.

--- Strana 713 ---
Figure 11-3: Examples of adjacency matrices representing molecules in the ZINC dataset
These adjacency matrices represent three molecules in the ZINC
dataset; the numbers correspond to the atom types making up each
molecule. The ZINC dataset has 28 atom types, numbered from 0 to 27
(see Table 11-1).
Table 11-1: Atom Types and Corresponding Numbers
Number
Atom type
0
Carbon (C)
1
Oxygen (O)
2
Nitrogen (N)
3
Fluorine (F)
4
Carbon atom with a single hydrogen (CH1)
5
Sulfur (S)
6
Chlorine (Cl)
7
Oxygen atom with a negative charge (O–)
8
Nitrogen atom with a single hydrogen and a positive
charge (NH+
1 )
9
Bromine (Br)

--- Strana 714 ---
Number
Atom type
10
Nitrogen atom with three hydrogens and a positive
charge (NH+
3 )
11
Nitrogen atom with two hydrogens and a positive
charge (NH+
2 )
12
Positively charged nitrogen (N+)
13
Negatively charged nitrogen (N–)
14
Negatively charged sulfur (S–)
15
Iodine (I)
16
Phosphorus (P)
17
Oxygen atom with a single hydrogen and a positive
charge (OH+
1 )
18
Nitrogen atom with a single hydrogen and a negative
charge (NH−
1 )
19
Positively charged oxygen (O+)
20
Positively charged sulfur (S+)
21
Phosphorus with a single hydrogen (PH1)
22
Phosphorus with two hydrogens (PH2)
23
Carbon atom with two hydrogens and a negative charge
(CH−
2 )
24
Positively charged phosphorus (P+)
25
Sulfur with a single hydrogen and a positive charge
(SH+
1 )
26
Carbon atom with a single hydrogen and a negative
charge (CH−
1 )

--- Strana 715 ---
Number
Atom type
27
Phosphorus with a single hydrogen and a positive
charge (PH+
1 )
Notice that the graphs in Figure 11-3 have different numbers of
nodes because the molecules they represent have different numbers of
atoms.
Applying a Graph Convolutional Network
In its simplest form, a graph convolutional network consists of a series
of graph convolution layers. You can implement this network with the
GCN class in Listing 11-10.
class GCN(dl.DeeplayModule):
    """Graph convolutional network.""" 
    def __init__(self, in_feats, hidden_feats, out_feats):
        """Initialize graph convolutional network."""
        super().__init__()
        self.blocks = dl.LayerList()
        for f_in, f_out in zip([in_feats, *hidden_feats], 
                               [*hidden_feats, out_feats]):
         ➊ self.blocks.append(GCL(in_feats=f_in, out_feats=f_out))
    def forward(self, G):
        """Apply graph convolution layers to update node attributes."""
        for block in self.blocks:
         ➋ G["node_attr"] = block(G["A"], G["node_attr"])
        return G["node_attr"]
Listing 11-10: The class to implement a graph convolutional network
This class defines the model architecture as a stack of graph convolution
layers ➊. Its forward() method takes a graph, G, as input. This graph’s
node attributes are passed through each graph convolution layer in the
list, where the output of each layer serves as the input to the next ➋.

--- Strana 716 ---
Finally, the method returns the node attributes calculated by the last
layer.
Getting Properties from Node Attributes
This simple graph convolutional network needs three additional
components to be able to predict molecular properties. First, in the
ZINC dataset, nodes representing atom types are encoded as categorical
attributes (integers). To process such attributes, you need to use an
embedding layer, which acts as a lookup table that converts each atom
type into a continuous vector representation.
Second, while the current model outputs attributes for each node,
the ultimate goal is to predict a global property for the entire molecule
(the logP value). To accomplish this, you need to combine the attributes
of all nodes into a single representation of the entire graph. This can be
done using global average pooling, which involves computing the mean of
all node attributes.
Third, to perform the regression task, a dense top should be added
to map the graph-level representation to a single output value, the
predicted logP.
You can add these components to the model with Listing 11-11.
class GCN(dl.DeeplayModule):
    --snip--
    def __init__(self, num_atoms, embed_dim, hidden_feats, out_feats):
        """Initialize graph convolutional network."""
        super().__init__()  
     ➊ self.node_embed = dl.Layer(torch.nn.Embedding, num_atoms, embed_dim)
        self.blocks = LayerList()
        for f_in, f_out in zip([embed_dim, *hidden_feats[:-1]],
                                hidden_feats):
            self.blocks.append(GCL(in_feats=f_in, out_feats=f_out))
     ➋ self.dense_top = dl.Sequential(
            dl.Layer(torch.nn.Linear, hidden_feats[-1], hidden_feats[-1] // 4),
            dl.Layer(torch.nn.ReLU),
            dl.Layer(torch.nn.Linear, hidden_feats[-1] // 4, out_feats),
        )

--- Strana 717 ---
    def forward(self, G):
        """Predict graph properties."""
     ➌ G["node_attr"] = self.node_embed(G["node_attr"])
        for block in self.blocks:
            G["node_attr"] = block(G["A"], G["node_attr"])
     ➍ pooled_graph_attr = torch.mean(G["node_attr"], dim=0)
     ➎ return self.dense_top(pooled_graph_attr).squeeze()  # LogP
Listing 11-11: The class to implement a graph convolutional network including an
embedding layer, global average pooling, and dense top (by modifying Listing 11-10)
This code modifies the GCN class to include an embedding layer, a
global average pooling, and a dense top. The initialization method
includes two new parameters: the number of atom types (num_atoms) and
the number of embedding dimensions (embed_dim). These parameters are
used to initialize the embedding layer ➊, which is applied to the list of
atoms before passing the node attributes through the graph convolution
layers ➌.
The global average pooling operation is added to the forward
method to aggregate the node attributes into a single graph-level
representation ➍. This is achieved by computing the mean of the node
attributes across the graph.
The dense top is defined as a sequential model comprising two
linear layers with a ReLU activation function between them ➋. The
first linear layer maps the graph-level representation to a hidden layer,
while the second linear layer maps the hidden layer to the output value.
This dense top takes the pooled node attributes as input to predict the
output ➎, which in this case will be the logP.
Adding Batch Processing
You can now complete the model by enabling batch processing to
improve the efficiency and scalability of the training process. To do this,
modify the GCN class, as shown in Listing 11-12.
class GCN(dl.DeeplayModule):
    --snip--

--- Strana 718 ---
    def forward(self, G):
        --snip--
        for block in self.blocks:
            G["node_attr"] = block(G["A"], G["node_attr"])
     
        num_graphs = torch.max(G["graph_ids"]) + 1
     ➊ pooled_graph_attr = torch.zeros(
            num_graphs, G["node_attr"].shape[1], device=G["node_attr"].device,
        )
     ➋ pooled_graph_attr = pooled_graph_attr.scatter_add(
            0, G["graph_ids"][:, None].expand_as(G["node_attr"]), 
            G["node_attr"],
        )
        node_counts = torch.bincount(G["graph_ids"])
     ➌ pooled_graph_attr = pooled_graph_attr / node_counts[:, None]
     
        return self.dense_top(pooled_graph_attr).squeeze()  # LogP
Listing 11-12: The class to implement a graph convolutional network with batch processing
(by modifying Listing 11-11)
This code updates the forward() method to accept a batched graph G
as input. Since different graphs can have different numbers of nodes,
G["node_attr"] stores the node attributes of all graphs in a single tensor of
a shape equal to the total number of nodes by the number of node
attributes. Similarly, G["A"] stores all the adjacency matrices of the graphs
as a block-diagonal matrix with a shape equal to the total number of
nodes squared, with each block corresponding to the adjacency matrix
of a single graph in the batch. Finally, G["graph_ids"] is a tensor of a shape
equal to the total number of nodes that stores the graph indices of each
node.
In the forward() method, the entire batch is passed into the
embedding layer, graph convolution layers, global average pooling, and
dense top. These operations are exactly the same as before. However,
after the batch is fed through the graph convolution layers, the node
attributes are aggregated to form a graph-level representation for each
graph rather than the whole batch.

--- Strana 719 ---
To achieve this, the updated method replaces the global average
pooling with a new approach. First, the code initializes the
pooled_graph_attr tensor to hold the aggregated node attributes for each
graph with a shape equal to the number of graphs by the number of
node features ➊. Then the code sums the node attributes belonging to
the same graph to get aggregated attributes for each graph ➋, applying
the scatter_add() function along the batch dimension, using the graph
indices. Next, the code normalizes the aggregated attributes by the
number of nodes in each graph to compute the mean node attributes
per graph ➌, by dividing the aggregated node features by the node
counts for each graph. Finally, the code returns the predicted logP
values by passing the aggregated node features through the dense-top
layers.
Instantiating the Graph Convolutional Network Model
Now that you’ve added batch processing, you can instantiate the model
with Listing 11-13.
gcn_model = GCN(
    num_atoms=28, embed_dim=64, hidden_feats=[64,] * 4, out_feats=1,
).create()
Listing 11-13: Instantiating the graph convolutional network
This code creates a graph convolutional network. The number of
node embeddings is set to 28, corresponding to the number of atom
types in the ZINC dataset. You can print the model with print(gcn_model)
to check the details of its architecture.
Training the Graph Convolutional Network
After instantiating the model, you’ll define the data loaders, compile the
graph convolutional network, and train it.
First, specify the data loaders with Listing 11-14.
from torch_geometric.loader import DataLoader

--- Strana 720 ---
train_loader = DataLoader(dataset=train_set, batch_size=32, shuffle=True)
val_loader = DataLoader(dataset=val_set, batch_size=32, shuffle=False)
test_loader = DataLoader(dataset=test_set, batch_size=32, shuffle=False)
Listing 11-14: Defining the data loaders
This code initializes the data loaders to train, validate, and test the
neural network by defining how the dataset is split into manageable
batches. The training loader shuffles the batches to ensure that the
model sees the data in a different order each epoch, promoting better
generalization. In contrast, the validation and test loaders don’t shuffle,
maintaining a consistent order to accurately evaluate performance.
Next, implement the MolecularRegressor class that will train and
evaluate the model, as shown in Listing 11-15.
class MolecularRegressor(dl.Regressor):
    """Regressor model for molecular property prediction."""
    def __init__(self, model, **kwargs):
        """Initialize molecular regressor."""
        super().__init__(model, **kwargs)
 
    def batch_preprocess(self, G):
        """Preprocess the graph batch for model input."""
        G["node_attr"] = G["x"].squeeze()
        G["A"] = to_dense_adj(G["edge_index"]).squeeze(0)
        G["graph_ids"] = G["batch"]
        return G.to(self.device)
 
    def forward(self, G):
        """Calculate model output for input graph batch."""
        return self.model(self.batch_preprocess(G))
Listing 11-15: The class to compile, train, and evaluate the graph convolutional network
This class handles the batch processing, training, and evaluation
loops. The batch_preprocess() method prepares the input to the model.
The method receives a batch of graphs as inputs (G). It saves the node
attributes as G["node_attr"] after squeezing the G("x") tensor to eliminate

--- Strana 721 ---
any singleton dimensions, ensuring that its shape matches the model
requirements. Then the method calculates and saves the adjacency
matrix (G["A"]) from the edge index (G["edge_index"]). Finally, the method
assigns the graph indices to G["graph_ids"] via G["batch"], which indicates
the graph that each node belongs to in the batch.
Next, create this class and train the model with Listing 11-16.
   import os
   from lightning.pytorch.callbacks import ModelCheckpoint
   gcn = MolecularRegressor(
       gcn_model, loss=torch.nn.L1Loss(), optimizer=dl.Adam(lr=1e-3),
   ).create()
➊ checkpoint_callback = ModelCheckpoint(
       monitor="val_loss", dirpath=os.path.join("models", "gcn"), 
       filename="ZINC-{epoch:02d}-{val_loss:.2f}", auto_insert_metric_name=False,
   )
   trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=400, callbacks=[checkpoint_callback])
   trainer.fit(gcn, train_loader, val_loader)
Listing 11-16: Training the graph convolutional network
This code initializes the model with an MAE loss function and
Adam optimizer. Then the code instantiates the trainer and starts
training.
In addition, the code creates a checkpoint callback to save the best
model during training ➊. This callback monitors the validation loss and
saves the model with the lowest loss in the dirpath directory. The
filename includes the epoch and the validation loss for ease of
identification.
Evaluating the Graph Convolutional Network
After you’ve trained the model and saved its weights, you can evaluate it
on the test set by loading the best model with Listing 11-17.
import glob

--- Strana 722 ---
model_paths = glob.glob(os.path.join("models", "gcn", "ZINC-*.ckpt"))
best_model_path = sorted(model_paths, key=os.path.getmtime)[-1]
gcn_best = MolecularRegressor.load_from_checkpoint(best_model_path, 
                                                   model=gcn_model)
test_results = trainer.test(gcn_best, test_loader)
Listing 11-17: Evaluating the performance of the trained graph convolutional network
This code first identifies the best model checkpoint in the directory
by searching for files that match the pattern "ZINC-*.ckpt" and sorting
them by their modification time to find the latest one. The code then
loads the model into a new instance of the MolecularRegressor class
(gcn_best), using the same MAE loss function employed during training.
Finally, the code evaluates the model’s performance on the test set and
returns the MAE.
You should expect an MAE of around 0.46 on the test data. While
this is a strong result for the model as currently configured, you could
improve it by tweaking parameters such as the learning rate or the
number of epochs, or by experimenting with different model
architectures.
EXERCISE
11-5:  Use your trained model to predict the logP values on the
test set and plot those values against the actual ones by using a
heatmap. What does the resulting plot indicate about your model’s
performance?
Predicting Molecular Properties with Message
Passing
When dealing with graphs, valuable information is found not only in
the nodes but also in the edges. This information, known as edge

--- Strana 723 ---
attributes (or edge features), is crucial for capturing relationships between
nodes in the graph. For example, in molecular graphs, edge attributes
can represent the type of chemical bond between atoms. This
information is essential for understanding the molecule’s structure and
properties. In the ZINC dataset, the edge attributes correspond to the
number of bonds between atoms. These attributes are encoded as
categorical attributes, which can be single, double, or triple.
Unsurprisingly, the number of bonds is represented by the value 1, 2, or
3.
Unfortunately, the graph convolution layers in the previous sections
can’t process edge attributes. To learn from both node and edge
attributes, you need a model that uses message-passing layers, which
you’ll explore in this section.
Implementing a Message-Passing Layer
Like graph convolution layers, message-passing layers consist of three
main steps: transform, propagate, and update. Indeed, graph
convolution layers can be viewed as a special case of message-passing
layers. Message-passing layers tailor these three steps to incorporate
edge attributes, equipping the model to integrate insights from both
nodes and edges.
Importantly, the message-passing layers you’ll use in this section will
store edge information in the form of an edge index instead of an
adjacency matrix. An edge index is a tensor that consists of two rows. The
first row contains the source nodes of each edge, and the second row
contains the target nodes of each edge. Accordingly, each column
represents an edge, and the total number of columns equals the number
of edges in the graph. For example, the graph in Figure 11-1 would
have the following edge index:
[[0, 1, 2, 3, 4],
[1, 2, 3, 4, 0]]
Although edge indices and adjacency matrices represent the same
information, the edge-based representation is best for message-passing
layers because it makes accessing graph edges more intuitive.

--- Strana 724 ---
Transforming Attributes into Messages
As the first major operation in the layer, the transform step merges the
node and edge attributes into a single, unified attribute vector called a
message. A message is a representation that encodes information about the
interaction between two connected nodes. This representation contains
the attributes of the source node where the message originates, the
attributes of the target node that receives the source node’s message,
and the attributes of the edge that transmits the message from the
source to a target.
You can implement this via the TransformLayer class in Listing 11-18.
class TransformLayer(torch.nn.Module):
    """Transform layer."""
 
    def __init__(self, hidden_feats):
        """Initialize the transform layer."""
        super().__init__()
        self.linear = torch.nn.LazyLinear(hidden_feats)
        self.activation = torch.nn.ReLU()
    def forward(self, G):
        """Compute messages by transforming node and edge attributes."""
        src_node_attr = G["node_attr"][G["edge_index"][0]]
        tgt_node_attr = G["node_attr"][G["edge_index"][1]]
        edge_attr = G["edge_attr"]
        msg = torch.cat([src_node_attr, tgt_node_attr, edge_attr], dim=-1)
     ➊ G["msg"] = self.activation(self.linear(msg))
        return G
Listing 11-18: The class to implement a layer to perform the transform step
The forward() method computes the messages by concatenating the
source and target nodes’ attributes with the connecting edge attributes
and passing the result through a learnable function. In this case, the
concatenated vector is fed into a linear layer, followed by a nonlinear
activation function ➊.

--- Strana 725 ---
Instead of an adjacency matrix, the code uses G["edge_index"] to
represent graph connectivity.
Propagating Messages
After you compute the messages, the PropagateLayer class transmits them
across the graph by aggregating the messages from neighboring nodes,
as shown in Listing 11-19.
class PropagateLayer(torch.nn.Module):
    """Propagate layer."""
    def __init__(self, hidden_feats):
        """Initialize propagate layer."""
        super().__init__()
        self.hidden_feats = hidden_feats
    def forward(self, G):
        """Aggregate messages from neighboring nodes."""
        num_nodes = G["node_attr"].size(0)
     ➊ aggregated_msg = torch.zeros(num_nodes, self.hidden_feats, 
                                     dtype=G["node_attr"].dtype,
                                     device=G["node_attr"].device)
     ➋ tgt_node_idxs = G["edge_index"][1].unsqueeze(1).expand_as(G["msg"])
     ➌ aggregated_msg = aggregated_msg.scatter_add(0, tgt_node_idxs, G["msg"])
        G["aggregated_msg"] = aggregated_msg
        return G
Listing 11-19: The class to implement a layer to perform the propagate step
This code creates the PropagateLayer class, which aggregates messages
from neighboring nodes. The forward() method of this class starts by
initializing a tensor to store the aggregated messages, adjusted to match
the data type and device of the node attributes tensor ➊ to ensure that
the tensor is compatible with the computation settings of the input
graph data.
Next, the code prepares the target node indices within the edge
index for each message ➋. This is done by unsqueezing and expanding

--- Strana 726 ---
the target node indices (G["edge_index"][1]) to match the shape of the
messages (G["msg"]). This process positions the target node indices so
that each aligns with its corresponding message, facilitating the directed
aggregation of messages to their designated receivers in the graph.
Finally, the aggregation is performed via a scatter_add() operation,
which adds the prepared messages to the initialized tensor at the
positions specified by the expanded indices tensor ➌. This operation
sums all messages directed to each node, updating the aggregate tensor
with the aggregated message information from neighboring nodes.
Updating the Node Attributes
In the final update step, the aggregated messages are used to update the
node attributes. Implement this with the UpdateLayer class in Listing 11-
20.
class UpdateLayer(torch.nn.Module):
    """Update layer."""
    def __init__(self, hidden_feats):
        """Initialize update layer."""
        super().__init__()
        self.linear = torch.nn.LazyLinear(hidden_feats)
        self.activation = torch.nn.ReLU()
    def forward(self, G):
        """Update node attributes combining them with aggregated messages."""
        attr = torch.cat([G["node_attr"], G["aggregated_msg"]], dim=-1)
     ➊ G["node_attr"] = self.activation(self.linear(attr))
     ➋ G["edge_attr"] = G["msg"]
        return G
Listing 11-20: The class to implement a layer to perform the update step
This code concatenates the node attributes and aggregated
messages. Then the code applies a linear layer and a nonlinear activation
function to produce the final updated node attributes ➊.

--- Strana 727 ---
The code also updates the edge attributes by using the messages as
the edge attributes for the next iteration of message passing ➋.
Creating a Message-Passing Layer
Now that you’ve finished setting up these three main operations, you
can create a simple message-passing layer with Listing 11-21.
mpl = dl.Sequential(
    dl.Layer(TransformLayer, hidden_feats=64),
    dl.Layer(PropagateLayer, hidden_feats=64),
    dl.Layer(UpdateLayer, hidden_feats=64),
).create()
Listing 11-21: Defining the message-passing layer
This layer is defined as a sequential layer that consists of the
transform, propagate, and update operations. You can use print(mpl) to
print out the details of its architecture.
Implementing a Message-Passing Network
Now that you’ve specified your message-passing layer, you’ll construct a
message-passing network by combining the classes from the previous
sections. Then you’ll train it to predict the logP values of molecules in
the ZINC dataset.
The architecture of the message-passing network is similar to that of
the graph convolutional network, except it is modified to incorporate
edge attributes. You can implement the network as shown in Listing 11-
22.
class MPN(dl.DeeplayModule):
    """Message-passing network."""
 
    def __init__(self, num_atoms, num_edge_embed, embed_dim, hidden_feats, 
                 out_feats):
        """Initialize message-passing network."""
        super().__init__()
        self.node_embed = dl.Layer(torch.nn.Embedding, num_atoms, embed_dim)

--- Strana 728 ---
     ➊ self.edge_embed = \
            dl.Layer(torch.nn.Embedding, num_edge_embed, embed_dim)
        self.blocks = dl.LayerList()
        for f_out in hidden_feats:
         ➋ mpl = dl.Sequential(
                dl.Layer(TransformLayer, hidden_feats=f_out),
                dl.Layer(PropagateLayer, hidden_feats=f_out),
                dl.Layer(UpdateLayer, hidden_feats=f_out),
            )
            self.blocks.append(mpl)
        --snip--
 
    def forward(self, G):
        """Predict graph properties."""
        G["node_attr"] = self.node_embed(G["node_attr"])
        G["edge_attr"] = self.edge_embed(G["edge_attr"])
        for block in self.blocks:
            G = block(G)
        --snip--
Listing 11-22: The class to implement a message-passing network (by modifying Listing 11-
12)
This class uses an additional edge embedding layer to process the
edge attributes ➊, converting each bond type into a continuous vector
representation. Furthermore, the class uses message-passing layers
instead of graph convolution layers to enable the model to learn from
both node and edge attributes ➋. The network refines the node
attributes by repeatedly aggregating information from neighboring
nodes and edges, ultimately summarizing the entire graph’s structure in
a final graph-level representation. This representation is then passed
through a dense top layer to produce the predicted logP value.
You can now instantiate this model with Listing 11-23.
mpn_model = MPN(
    num_atoms=28, num_edge_embed=4, embed_dim=64, hidden_feats=[64,] * 4,

--- Strana 729 ---
    out_feats=1,
).create()
Listing 11-23: Instantiating the message-passing network
The number of node embeddings is set to the number of unique
atom types in the ZINC dataset, and the number of edge embeddings is
set to the various types of chemical bonds between atoms (absent, single,
double, triple). You can use print(mpn_model) to see all details of this
model.
Training and Evaluating the Message-Passing Network
Now use the MolecularRegressor class to train and evaluate the model for
the message-passing network, as shown in Listing 11-24.
--snip--
mpn = MolecularRegressor(
    mpn_model, loss=torch.nn.L1Loss(), optimizer=dl.Adam(lr=1e-3),
).create()
checkpoint_callback = ModelCheckpoint(
    monitor="val_loss", dirpath=os.path.join("models", "mpn"), ...
)
trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=400, callbacks=[checkpoint_callback])
trainer.fit(mpn, train_loader, val_loader)
Listing 11-24: Training the message-passing network (by modifying Listing 11-16)
After training, you can evaluate the best model via Listing 11-25.
model_paths = glob.glob(os.path.join("models", "mpn", "ZINC-*.ckpt"))
best_model_path = sorted(model_paths, key=os.path.getmtime)[-1]
mpn_best = MolecularRegressor.load_from_checkpoint(best_model_path, 
                                                   model=mpn_model)
test_results = trainer.test(mpn_best, test_loader)
Listing 11-25: Evaluating the performance of the trained message-passing network (by
modifying Listing 11-17)
You should expect an MAE of around 0.22. This result significantly
improves that of the graph convolutional network, demonstrating the

--- Strana 730 ---
effectiveness of message-passing networks in capturing the structure of
molecular graphs.
EXERCISE
11-6:  Use your trained message-passing network model to
predict the logP values on the test set, and plot the predicted logP
values against the actual ones with a heatmap, as you did for the
graph convolutional network. Compare the heatmaps from both
models. What differences do you observe, and what might they
indicate about the performance of the message-passing network as
compared to the graph convolutional network?
NOTE
Code Example 11-1, “Predicting Molecular Properties with Graph
Neural 
Networks,” 
is 
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch11_GNN folder and then ec11_1_gnn. The
gnn.ipynb notebook provides a complete code example to predict the
properties of small molecules by using graph convolution layers with
message passing.
Project 11A: Simulating Complex Physical
Phenomena
Realistic simulations of complex systems are crucial for science and
engineering. Traditional approaches, such as molecular dynamics
simulations, often attempt to brute-force calculate the interactions
between every atom or particle in a system. Yet, these models typically
come with high computational requirements, making them impractical
for simulating large-scale systems or processes over long periods.

--- Strana 731 ---
In this project, you’ll implement a graph network–based simulator, a
machine-learning framework designed to simulate complex systems
learning from observations of the system dynamics. You’ll work with the
SAND dataset, which contains simulations of granular systems. You’ll
implement a graph neural network that uses message passing to update
particle states and train the model to predict future particle positions
and velocities. Finally, you’ll simulate the system by using the trained
model and visualize the results to see how well the model replicates
complex physical phenomena.
Working with the SAND Dataset
You’ll use the SAND dataset, which contains simulations of granular
systems mimicking the complex frictional characteristics of sand. The
dataset provides time-series data capturing the positions of particles
over multiple time steps as they interact with one another within a
simulated environment. Each simulation in the dataset represents a
sequence of particle positions, with each particle’s location recorded at
discrete time intervals.
The SAND dataset is divided into three subsets: a training set
consisting of 1,000 simulations, a validation set of 30 simulations, and a
test set of 30 simulations. Each simulation is stored as a separate dataset
entry, with the particle positions at each time step represented as a 3D
array. The first two dimensions correspond to the number of particles
and the number of time steps, respectively, while the third dimension
represents the spatial coordinates r = (x, y) of each particle. This data
structure allows you to track the movement and interactions of particles
over time. These subsets are stored as .npz files.
You can use Listing 11-26 to load the data.
import os
from huggingface_hub import snapshot_download
if not os.path.exists("sand_dataset"):

--- Strana 732 ---
    snapshot_download(repo_id="DeepTrackAI/Sand", local_dir="sand_dataset", 
                      allow_patterns=["*.npz", "*.json"], repo_type="dataset")
Listing 11-26: Downloading the SAND data
This code downloads the SAND data into the sand_dataset local
folder.
Now load the training, validation, and test data with Listing 11-27.
import numpy as np
def load_npz_data(path):
    """Load NPZ data."""
    with np.load(path, allow_pickle=True) as data_file:
        data = [item for _, item in data_file.items()]
    return data
train_data = load_npz_data("sand_dataset/train.npz")
val_data = load_npz_data("sand_dataset/valid.npz")
test_data = load_npz_data("sand_dataset/test.npz")
Listing 11-27: Loading the SAND data
This code defines the load_npz_data() function to load the SAND
datasets; then the function loads the training, validation, and testing
sets.
Accompanying the dataset, the metadata.json file contains metadata
extracted from the simulations. This includes information such as
simulation durations and statistics like the average velocities and
accelerations. These will serve as normalization parameters later in the
project. Use Listing 11-28 to load the metadata.
import json
with open("sand_dataset/metadata.json", "r") as data_file:
    metadata = json.load(data_file)
Listing 11-28: Loading the SAND metadata
You can use print(json.dumps(metadata, indent=4)) to print the metadata.

--- Strana 733 ---
After you’ve downloaded the dataset, you can visualize one of the
simulations via Listing 11-29.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from IPython.display import HTML
from matplotlib.animation import FuncAnimation
sample_id = np.random.randint(0, len(train_data))
r = train_data[sample_id][0]  # Particle positions
fig, ax = plt.subplots(figsize=(6, 6)) 
scatter = ax.scatter([], [], s=50, c="y", edgecolors="k", linewidth=0.5)
ax.set_xlim(0, 1); ax.set_xticks([]); ax.set_ylim(0, 1); ax.set_yticks([])
def update(frame):
    """Update frame."""
    scatter.set_offsets(r[frame])
    return [scatter]
ani = FuncAnimation(fig, update, frames=len(r), interval=10, blit=True)
video = HTML(ani.to_jshtml())
plt.close()
Listing 11-29: Visualizing a SAND simulation
This code animates the simulation. The code randomly selects
sample_id within the range of train_data and gets the corresponding
positions data (r). Then the code creates a scatterplot canvas with no
data points plotted, setting the x-axis and y-axis to range from 0 to 1 and
removing the ticks from both.
To create each frame of the animation, the code defines the update()
function. It takes a frame parameter representing the frame number,
updates the scatterplot based on the data for the current frame, and
returns a list containing the scatterplot object.
The animation is created using the FuncAnimation class. This class takes
the figure, the update function, the number of frames, and the interval
between frames as input parameters. Setting blit=True improves
rendering performance. The animation is then converted into

--- Strana 734 ---
JavaScript by the HTML class. You can display the animation by typing
video.
Figure 11-4 shows some frames from this animation.
Figure 11-4: The SAND simulation illustrating the dynamics of granular particles over time
These frames illustrate the simulation’s progression. The particles
represent a granular material. The particles’ positions change over time
under the action of gravity, interaction forces, and boundaries.
Building a Graph Network–Based Simulator
A graph network–based simulator models physical phenomena through
three steps. First, the model predicts the future accelerations of all
particles. Next, it uses these predictions to update the velocities and
positions of the particles through an Euler integration scheme, which is a
simple numerical method for approximating the solutions of differential
equations. Specifically, the model updates the position of each particle,
incrementing it by its current velocity multiplied by the time step.
Similarly, the model updates the velocity by adding the acceleration
multiplied by the time step. Finally, the model uses the updated
positions as input for the next prediction step, allowing the simulation
to evolve over time.

--- Strana 735 ---
This iterative process enables the graph network–based simulator to
model complex systems accurately. Unlike traditional force-field
simulations, which require calculating every interaction and frictional
force between particles (a process that is computationally expensive), the
graph network–based simulator approximates these dynamics by using
learned relationships between particles, significantly reducing the
computational burden while still capturing the essential system
behavior.
Predicting Physical States from Graphs
To accomplish this goal, the graph network–based simulator uses a
graph neural network to model and simulate the physical states of a
system by representing it as an interconnected graph of particles. In this
graph, nodes represent particles, and edges describe the interactions
between particles within a specified distance threshold.
The simulator makes its predictions via three main steps:
1. Constructing the graph to represent the physical system
2. Passing messages between nodes, through the edges, to update the
particles’ states and then aggregating and propagating messages
through multiple layers of the graph network
3. Getting dynamics information of the system by using the updated
states from the final layer of the graph network to provide
insights into the system’s evolution over time
Defining the Message-Passing Model
The graph network–based simulator updates the graph representation
through message passing. You can define a message-passing model with
Listing 11-30.
import deeplay as dl
model = dl.GraphToNodeMPM(hidden_features=[64,] * 9, out_features=2)
Listing 11-30: Implementing the message-passing model

--- Strana 736 ---
This code instantiates a model with an encoder, a message-passing
backbone processor, and a decoder. Consisting of two dense neural
networks, the encoder initially transforms the node and edge attributes
to high-level representations. Next, the message-passing backbone
iteratively updates these attributes, employing nine message-passing
layers, each with a latent dimension of 64. Finally, the decoder uses the
updated node attributes to predict the system’s dynamic attributes—
namely, the 2D accelerations for each particle.
Additionally, the graph network–based simulator will modify the
standard message-passing approach by incorporating skip connections
between the input and updated attributes so that the input attributes
skip some of the layers in the network and are fed into later layers. This
modification helps the model retain input attribute information,
facilitating deeper and more stable information propagation. You can
implement this with Listing 11-31.
import torch
rmp_backbone = dl.ResidualMessagePassingNeuralNetwork(
    hidden_features=model.backbone.hidden_features,
    out_features=model.backbone.out_features, out_activation=torch.nn.ReLU,
)
model.replace("backbone", rmp_backbone)
model.build()
Listing 11-31: Incorporating skip connections in the message-passing layer
This code creates a residual message-passing backbone (rmp_backbone)
by configuring it with parameters inherited from model. In particular, the
hidden and output attributes as well as the ReLU activation function for
the output layer should all match their counterparts in model. With these
specifications in place, the code replaces the existing backbone of model
with rmp_backbone and creates the model.
You can now print and verify the model summary with print(model).
Building the Dataset

--- Strana 737 ---
To effectively train the graph network–based simulator, you must
construct a dataset that captures the temporal dynamics of the system.
The SAND simulation dataset records the positions of particles at
different time steps. You’ll use this sequential data to calculate ground-
truth values for key physical properties such as velocity and acceleration.
Creating the Graph
First, you need to create the graph to represent this system, defining the
attributes of its nodes, the edge index describing the adjacency matrix,
and the attributes of the edges. The node attributes include a sequence
of some of the particles’ previous velocities and their relative distances
to the simulation boundaries. The edge index includes the edges
between particles within a specified distance threshold. The edge
attributes capture the relative positional displacement between
connected particles and the magnitude of these displacements.
First, implement the compute_node_attr() function to compute the node
attributes, as shown in Listing 11-32.
def compute_node_attr(r_next, r, n_std, metadata=metadata):
    """Compute node attributes."""
    v = np.diff(r, axis=1)  # Velocities
    v_mean = np.array(metadata["vel_mean"])
    v_std = np.array(metadata["vel_std"])
    v = (v - v_mean) / (v_std ** 2 + n_std ** 2) ** 0.5
    v = v.reshape(r_next.shape[0], -1)
    boundaries = np.array(metadata["bounds"])
    distance_to_lower_bound = r_next - boundaries[:, 0][None]
    distance_to_upper_bound = boundaries[:, 1][None] - r_next
    distance_to_bounds = np.concatenate(
        [distance_to_lower_bound, distance_to_upper_bound], axis=-1,
    )
    norm_distance_to_bounds = np.clip(
        distance_to_bounds / metadata["default_connectivity_radius"], -1, 1,
    )

--- Strana 738 ---
 
    return np.concatenate([v, norm_distance_to_bounds], axis=-1)
Listing 11-32: The function to compute the node attributes
This function generates the attributes for each node in the graph.
The function starts by calculating the velocities between consecutive
frames. Then it normalizes the velocities by subtracting the mean
velocity and dividing the result by the velocity standard deviation from
the metadata plus the noise standard deviation. Next, the function
reshapes the normalized velocities into a single attribute vector for each
particle.
Additionally, the function computes the distance of each particle to
the simulation boundaries and normalizes these distances relative to the
connectivity radius so that they fall within a range of –1 to 1. Ultimately,
the function returns a concatenation of the normalized velocities and
the normalized distances to the boundaries in the form of node
attributes, comprehensively representing each particle’s state and
environment.
Next, you’ll create the compute_connectivity() function to compute the
edge index and edge attributes, shown in Listing 11-33.
def compute_connectivity(r, metadata=metadata):
    """Compute graph connectivity from particle positions and radii."""
    Dr = r[:, None, :] - r[None, :, :]  # Displacements
    D = np.linalg.norm(Dr, axis=-1)  # Distance matrix
    radius = metadata["default_connectivity_radius"]
    mask = D < radius
    np.fill_diagonal(mask, False)  # Eliminate self-connections
    edge_index = np.argwhere(mask).T
    edge_attr = np.concatenate([Dr[mask], D[mask][:, None]], axis=-1) / radius
    return edge_index, edge_attr
Listing 11-33: The function to compute graph connectivity and edge attributes
This function determines the connectivity between particles based
on their positions and a radius specified in the metadata. The function
computes the displacement vectors between all pairs of particles (Dr) and
then calculates their Euclidean distance matrix (D). Next, the function

--- Strana 739 ---
creates a Boolean mask to identify pairs of connected particles within
the specified radius before excluding self-connections by setting the
diagonal to False. Finally, the function returns the edge index of the
connected particle pairs (edge_index) and a concatenated array of their
corresponding attributes (edge_attr), including the normalized
displacement vectors and distances. These operations define the edges
in the graph, indicating which particles influence each other.
Finally, you can implement the compute_graph() function, as shown in
Listing 11-34.
def compute_graph(r, n_std):
    """Compute the graph representation for the positions."""
    r_next = r[:, -1]
    node_attr = compute_node_attr(r_next, r, n_std)
    edge_index, edge_attr = compute_connectivity(r_next)
    return node_attr, edge_index, edge_attr
Listing 11-34: The function to compute the graph representation for the windowed positions
This function constructs the graph representation from a window of
particle positions. The function begins by getting the current positions
of the particles from the last frame of the position window (r_next).
Using r_next, the function determines which particles have edges
between them based on their proximity and then creates an edge index
through the compute_connectivity() function (Listing 11-33). The function
computes the node attributes from the noisy windowed positions via the
compute_node_attr() function (Listing 11-32)—specifically, the normalized
particle velocities and distances to the boundaries. Finally, the function
returns the node attributes (node_attr), the connectivity information
(edge_index), and the edge attributes (edge_attr) necessary to construct the
graph network.
Setting Up the Dataset Class
To begin, use Listing 11-35 to create a dataset class that will prepare the
inputs and outputs required during training.

--- Strana 740 ---
class ParticleDataset(torch.utils.data.Dataset):
    """Dataset for particle simulations."""
 
    def __init__(self, data, metadata, Dt, n_std):
        """Initialize dataset."""
        super().__init__()
        self.data, self.metadata, self.Dt, self.n_std, self.traj_length = \
            data, metadata, Dt, n_std, len(data[0][0])
Listing 11-35: The class to manage the dataset with particle simulations including only its
constructor
The class constructor initializes the dataset with the provided data
and metadata, the size of the time window for cropping trajectory sections
(Dt), and the standard deviation of the noise for data augmentation
(n_std). The class then extracts the trajectory length (traj_length), which is
320 for all trajectories in the SAND dataset.
You’ll now add the necessary supporting methods one by one,
starting with the get_r() method shown in Listing 11-36.
class ParticleDataset(torch.utils.data.Dataset):
    --snip--
    def get_r(self, i):
        """Get a position window."""
        sample_id, r_start = divmod(i, self.traj_length - self.Dt)
        r = self.data[sample_id][0].copy()
        r_window = np.transpose(r[r_start:r_start + self.Dt], (1, 0, 2))
        r_next = r[r_start + self.Dt]
        return r_window, r_next
Listing 11-36: The method to get the windowed positions (by modifying Listing 11-35)
For a given index i, the get_r() method gets a sequential segment of
particle positions within a specified time window (called windowed
positions), along with a label containing their subsequent positions from
the dataset. The method first identifies the sample (sample_id) and
starting position (r_start) corresponding to i. Next, the method gets an
array of particle positions for this window before transposing it so that
the data is in the correct shape for future steps (r_window). Finally, the

--- Strana 741 ---
method gets the subsequent particle positions (r_next) to serve as the
ground truth for the next time step in the simulation.
Next, add the noise() method as shown in Listing 11-37.
class ParticleDataset(torch.utils.data.Dataset):
    --snip--
    def noise(self, r_window, n_std):
        """Generate random walk noise to be added to a position window."""
        v = np.diff(r_window, axis=1)
        v_noise = (np.random.randn(*list(v.shape)) * n_std / v.shape[1] ** 0.5)
     ➊ noise = np.concatenate([
            np.zeros_like(v_noise[:, 0:1]), np.cumsum(v_noise, axis=1),
        ], axis=1)
        return noise
Listing 11-37: The method to generate random walk noise (by modifying Listing 11-36)
This method generates random walk noise to simulate more-realistic
particle trajectories during training. The method starts by calculating
the velocities (v) from the differences between consecutive windowed
positions. These velocities represent the movement of particles between
time steps. Next, the method generates noise for each velocity (v_noise)
by multiplying random numbers by the noise standard deviation over
the inverse square root of the number of velocity segments. This scaling
ensures that the noise magnitude is inversely proportional to the length
of the time window, keeping the overall noise level consistent across
windows of varying lengths.
Finally, the method concatenates this velocity noise with an initial 0
value ➊. This value ensures that the first position in the sequence
remains unchanged, meaning that no displacement occurs at the start of
the window. The cumulative sum of the noise is then calculated, which
results in the random walk pattern. By simulating the natural stochastic
movements in particle systems, this approach makes the model more
robust to noisy inputs and better suited for real-world variability.
You can now complete the ParticleDataset by adding the required
__len__() and __getitem__() methods, as shown in Listing 11-38.

--- Strana 742 ---
from torch_geometric.data import Data
class ParticleDataset(torch.utils.data.Dataset):
    --snip--
    def __len__(self):
        """Return the total number of position windows in the dataset."""
        return len(self.data) * (self.traj_length - self.Dt)
    def __getitem__(self, i):
        """Get a position window from the dataset."""
        r_window, r_next = self.get_r(i)
     
        noise = self.noise(r_window, self.n_std)
     ➊ r_window, r_next = r_window + noise, r_next + noise[:, -1]
     
        v_current = r_window[:, -1] - r_window[:, -2]
        v_next = r_next - r_window[:, -1]
     
     ➋ a = v_next - v_current  # Acceleration
        a_mean = np.array(self.metadata["acc_mean"])
        a_std = np.array(self.metadata["acc_std"])
        a = (a - a_mean) / (a_std ** 2 + self.n_std ** 2) ** 0.5
        node_attr, edge_index, edge_attr = compute_graph(r_window, self.n_std)
        return Data(x=torch.tensor(node_attr, dtype=torch.float32),
                    edge_index=torch.tensor(edge_index, dtype=torch.long),
                    edge_attr=torch.tensor(edge_attr, dtype=torch.float32),
                    y=torch.tensor(a, dtype=torch.float32))
Listing 11-38: The complete class for managing the SAND dataset (by modifying Listing 11-
37)
This completes the class for managing the SAND dataset. The
__len__() method returns the length of the dataset—that is, the total
number of position windows, given by the number of simulations
(len(self.data) multiplied by the length of each trajectory (traj_length)
minus the length of the cropping window (Dt). For the training dataset,

--- Strana 743 ---
this corresponds to 1,000 times 314 position windows when the window
length is 6.
The __get_item__() method starts by cropping a trajectory section of
the specified time window size via the get_r() method (Listing 11-36).
This cropping ensures that each sample represents a sequential segment
of the trajectory, which is crucial for learning temporal patterns. By
focusing on short trajectories, the model can more easily identify
immediate cause-and-effect relationships between particle positions,
velocities, and accelerations. Additionally, the get_r() method provides
the target particle positions of the next time step after the window
(r_next) so that you can compute ground-truth accelerations.
To minimize the accumulation of errors during prediction, especially
when iteratively forecasting future particle positions, the code makes the
model robust to noisy inputs. The noise() method (Listing 11-37)
generated the random-walk noise to corrupt the input velocities. After
calling this method, the __getitem__() method adds this noise to the
positions in the trajectory section and to the next position ➊.
Next, the method calculates the current velocity (v_current) and the
next velocity (v_next). Then the method computes target accelerations of
particles by calculating the difference between next and current
velocities ➋. For training stability, the target accelerations are
normalized by using average acceleration statistics from the metadata
and the noise standard deviation.
Finally, the method constructs the input graph from the noisy
cropped trajectory via the compute_graph() function (Listing 11-34). The
method returns a dictionary containing the node attributes (node_attr),
edge information (edge_index), edge attributes (edge_attr), and target
accelerations (a).
Initializing the Datasets
Now that you’ve created the ParticleDataset class, use it to initialize the
data-set, as shown in Listing 11-39.
Dt, n_std = 6, 3e-4

--- Strana 744 ---
train_set = ParticleDataset(train_data, metadata, Dt, n_std)
val_set = ParticleDataset(val_data, metadata, Dt, n_std)
test_set = ParticleDataset(test_data, metadata, Dt, n_std)
Listing 11-39: Initializing the training, validation, and test datasets
This code sets the window size to 6 to include the current time step
and the preceding five time steps and sets the noise standard deviation
to 3e-4. The choice of these parameters can affect the type and precision
of the dynamics that can be learned. In particular, the window size
determines how far back in time the model sees the system’s state, which
can be critical for capturing longer-range temporal dependencies.
Similarly, the noise standard deviation sets the magnitude of the data
augmentation noise added to the states.
The datasets are initialized with the training, validation, and test
data, along with the metadata.
Configuring the Data Loaders
Define the data loaders by using Listing 11-40.
from torch_geometric.loader import DataLoader
train_loader, val_loader, test_loader = \
    DataLoader(train_set, batch_size=4, shuffle=True, pin_memory=True), \
    DataLoader(val_set, batch_size=4, shuffle=False, pin_memory=True), \
    DataLoader(test_set, batch_size=4, shuffle=False, pin_memory=True)
Listing 11-40: Defining the data loaders
These data loaders will feed the data to the model during training
and evaluation.
Training the Model
Once you’ve finished building the dataset, you can train the model with
Listing 11-41.
from lightning.pytorch.callbacks import ModelCheckpoint

--- Strana 745 ---
regressor = dl.Regressor(
    model, loss=torch.nn.MSELoss(), optimizer=dl.Adam(lr=1e-4),
).create()
checkpoint_callback = ModelCheckpoint(
    monitor="val_loss", dirpath="models",
    filename="SAND-GNS-model{epoch:02d}-val_loss{val_loss:.2f}",
    auto_insert_metric_name=False,
)
trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=5, callbacks=[checkpoint_callback])
trainer.fit(regressor, train_loader, val_loader)
Listing 11-41: Training the model
The training process optimizes the model by using an MSE loss
function and the Adam optimizer. The model is trained for five epochs
by default, with the validation loss being monitored to save the best-
performing model, which produces good results.
For better performance, you can increase the number of epochs, but
this will result in longer training times of up to several weeks,
depending on the number of epochs and the available hardware.
However, once trained, the graph network–based simulator can perform
simulations much faster than traditional force-field methods. While a
single force-field simulation might be quicker for one-off calculations,
the trained network can be reused for any number of simulations,
offering significant time savings over repeated traditional simulations.
Alternatively, you can bypass the training process and download a
pre-trained model. To do so, you need to determine the optimal device to
make the computations via the get_device() function (Listing 7-10):
device = get_device()
Then load the pretrained model with Listing 11-42.
best_model_path = os.path.join("models", "SAND-GNS-model.ckpt")
best_model = torch.load(best_model_path, map_location=torch.device(device))
regressor.load_state_dict(best_model["state_dict"]);
Listing 11-42: Loading a pretrained model

--- Strana 746 ---
This code loads a model that has been pretrained for 30 epochs (it
took several days on a computer equipped with an A100 GPU) and
saved in the SAND-GNS-model.ckpt file.
Testing the Model
Now that you have either trained a new model or loaded the pretrained
model, you can evaluate its performance on the test set:
trainer.test(regressor, test_loader)
Using the pretrained model, you should expect an MAE of around 0.05
for the test set, displaying the model’s ability to accurately predict
particle accelerations despite the presence of noise.
Simulating the System
With your trained model, you can simulate a system of particles. This
process involves iteratively predicting future accelerations and updating
particle positions based on these predictions.
Performing the Simulation
Start by defining the simulate() function to perform a simulation with the
trained model, as shown in Listing 11-43.
def simulate(model, r, metadata, Dt, n_std):
    """Simulate the system."""
    model.eval()
    T = r.shape[0]  # Total time steps
 ➊ r_sim = np.transpose(r[:Dt].copy(), (1, 0, 2))  # Simulated positions
    for _ in range(T - Dt):
        with torch.no_grad():
            node_attr, edge_index, edge_attr = \
                compute_graph(r_sim[:, -Dt:, :], n_std)
            graph = Data(
                x=torch.tensor(node_attr, dtype=torch.float32),
                edge_index=torch.tensor(edge_index, dtype=torch.long),

--- Strana 747 ---
                edge_attr=torch.tensor(edge_attr, dtype=torch.float32),
            )
            graph = graph.to(model.device)
         
         ➋ a = model(graph)  # Acceleration
            a_mean = np.array(metadata["acc_mean"])
            a_std = np.array(metadata["acc_std"])
            a = a.cpu().numpy() * (a_std ** 2 + n_std ** 2) ** 0.5 + a_mean
            v = r_sim[:, -1] - r_sim[:, -2]  # Velocity
            v_next = v + a  # Next velocity
         
            r_next = r_sim[:, -1] + v_next  # Next position
         ➌ r_sim = np.concatenate([r_sim, r_next[:, None]], axis=1)
    return r_sim
Listing 11-43: The function to simulate the system
This code iteratively uses the last particle positions to compute the
predicted accelerations and the next particle positions to simulate their
movement. The code starts with the first Dt cropped from the ground-
truth data as initial positions for the simulation ➊.
A for loop iterates through the time steps. Within each iteration, the
code calls the compute_graph() function to generate the graph
representation of the current window of positions. Next, the code
creates a Data object to store the graph with its node attributes (node_attr),
edge index (edge_index), and edge attributes (edge_attr).
Subsequently, the model predicts accelerations from the provided
graph representation ➋ and scales the predicted accelerations to match
the data distribution.
Then, based on the predicted accelerations, the function calculates
the next positions of the particles by using an Euler integration scheme
to calculate the next velocity (v_next) and next position (r_next) from the
current velocity (v) and current position (r_sim[:, -1]).
Finally, the next positions are concatenated with the current
positions to update the simulation window for the next iteration ➌.

--- Strana 748 ---
Visualizing the Simulation
After you’ve implemented the simulation function, visualize the
simulation by using the animate() function in Listing 11-44.
def animate(sample_id, regressor, data, metadata, Dt, n_std):
    """Animate simulation."""
    r = data[sample_id][0]  # Ground-truth positions
    r_sim = np.transpose(simulate(regressor, r, metadata, Dt, n_std), 
                         (1, 0, 2))  # Simulated positions
    fig, axs = plt.subplots(1, 2, figsize=(12, 6))
    scatters = [
        axs[0].scatter([], [], s=50, c="y", edgecolors="k", linewidth=0.5),
        axs[1].scatter([], [], s=50, c="y", edgecolors="k", linewidth=0.5),
    ]
    axs[0].set_title("Ground Truth"); axs[1].set_title("Simulated")
    axs[0].set_xlim(0, 1); axs[0].set_xticks([])
    axs[0].set_ylim(0, 1); axs[0].set_yticks([])
    axs[1].set_xlim(0, 1); axs[1].set_xticks([])
    axs[1].set_ylim(0, 1); axs[1].set_yticks([])
    def update(frame):
        """Update frame."""
        scatters[0].set_offsets(r[frame])
        scatters[1].set_offsets(r_sim[frame])
        return scatters
    ani = FuncAnimation(fig, update, frames=len(r), interval=10, blit=True)
    video = HTML(ani.to_jshtml())
    plt.close()
    return video
Listing 11-44: The function to animate a simulation
This function is very similar to the code in Listing 11-29.
You can now try this simulation with various samples from the test
set by setting the sample_id parameter from 0 to 29. For example, set it to
23 as follows:

--- Strana 749 ---
animate(23, regressor, test_data, metadata, Dt, n_std)
You should get the simulation shown in Figure 11-5.
Figure 11-5: The first (left) and last (right) frames
Figure 11-5 displays the first and last frames of both the ground-
truth and the simulated data from sample 23. The ground-truth frames
are shown on the left, while the simulated frames are illustrated on the
right. This comparison demonstrates the effectiveness of the pretrained
model in replicating the dynamics of the granular system.
NOTE
Code Example 11-A, “Simulating Complex Physical Phenomena,” is
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch11_GNN folder and then ec11_A_dynamics.
The dynamics.ipynb notebook provides a complete code example that
uses graph neural networks to simulate complex systems of interacting
particles.
Project 11B: Identifying Cell Trajectories

--- Strana 750 ---
Tracking the movement of cells is a common task in biological image
analysis. This process usually has two steps: detecting and segmenting
cells in each frame and then linking them across frames to form
trajectories. In previous chapters, you learned various methods for
detecting and segmenting cells. For this project, you’ll focus on linking
the cells you detect across frames of segmented images to create
trajectories via MAGIK, an algorithm based on graph neural networks
that was published in 2023 by Jesús Pineda and co-workers in Nature
Machine Intelligence.
You’ll start by loading and visualizing some segmented images from
the cell-tracking dataset. Next, you’ll create a graph from these
segmented images to model cell motion and build a dataset for training
a graph neural network. After setting up the data, you’ll train the
MAGIK model to predict connections between cells across frames.
Finally, you’ll evaluate the model’s performance, compute cell
trajectories from the model’s output, and visualize these trajectories over
the original video frames.
Exploring the Cell-Tracking Data
You’ll use the DIC-C2DH-HeLa dataset from the Cell Tracking
Challenge. The dataset consists of two videos showing proliferating
HeLa cells, a commonly used line of metastatic cells.
Download and extract this dataset with Listing 11-45.
import os
from torchvision.datasets.utils import _extract_zip, download_url
dataset_name = "DIC-C2DH-HeLa"
dataset_path = os.path.join(".", "cell_detection_dataset")
if not os.path.exists(dataset_path):
    url = ("http://data.celltrackingchallenge.net/training-datasets/"
           f"{dataset_name}.zip")
    download_url(url, ".")

--- Strana 751 ---
    _extract_zip(f"{dataset_name}.zip", dataset_path, None)
    os.remove(f"{dataset_name}.zip")
Listing 11-45: Downloading the dataset
This script downloads the dataset, unzips it into the dataset_path
directory, and removes the downloaded ZIP file.
The data consists of two sets of image sequences stored in the 01
and 02 folders. Each set includes segmentation masks in two quality
levels: gold standard and silver standard. The gold-standard corpus
contains man-made reference annotations as the gold truth (GT). The
silver-standard corpus contains computer-generated reference
annotations as the silver truth (ST). Furthermore, each GT folder has an
additional TRA folder containing ground-truth cell trajectories in the
form of both text files and images.
You’ll use sequence 02 for training and sequence 01 for testing. In
both cases, you’ll use the silver-standard segmentation masks to simulate
real-world scenarios with imperfect segmentation masks.
Loading the Images
Load the data with Listing 11-46.
import cv2, glob
def load_images(path):
    """Load images."""
    images = []
 ➊ for file in sorted(glob.glob(path + "/*.tif")):
        image = cv2.imread(file, cv2.IMREAD_UNCHANGED)
        images.append(image)
    return images
train_image_path = os.path.join(dataset_path, "DIC-C2DH-HeLa", "02")
train_images = load_images(train_image_path)

--- Strana 752 ---
train_seg_path = os.path.join(dataset_path, "DIC-C2DH-HeLa", "02_ST", "SEG")
train_segs = load_images(train_seg_path)
Listing 11-46: Loading the images
This function iterates over each file in the specified directory path
containing a .tif extension ➊. The function reads the corresponding
image via the OpenCV cv2.imread() function with the cv2.IMREAD_UNCHANGED
flag to indicate that the image should be loaded without any
modification or conversion. Finally, the function appends the loaded
image to the images list. The code uses the load_images() function to load
the training images (train_images) and the corresponding segmentations
(train_segs).
Visualizing Some Images
Now that you’ve loaded the images, you can visualize some frames from
the training image sequence, along with their corresponding
segmentation masks, via Listing 11-47.
   import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
➊ frames_to_plot = [i for i in range(0, len(train_segs), len(train_segs) // 5)]
   fig, axs = plt.subplots(2, len(frames_to_plot), figsize=(20, 6))
   fig.patch.set_facecolor("white")
   for i, frame in enumerate(frames_to_plot):
       axs[0, i].imshow(train_images[frame], cmap="gray")
       axs[0, i].set_title(f"Frame {frame}", fontsize=16)
       axs[0, i].tick_params(axis="both", which="both", bottom=False, top=False, 
                             left=False, right=False, labelleft=False, 
                             labelbottom=False)
       if i == 0: axs[0, i].set_ylabel("Intensity image", fontsize=16)
       axs[1, i].imshow(train_segs[frame], cmap="tab20b")
       axs[1, i].tick_params(axis="both", which="both", bottom=False, top=False, 
                             left=False, right=False, labelleft=False, 
                             labelbottom=False)
       if i == 0: axs[1, i].set_ylabel("Segmentation", fontsize=16) 

--- Strana 753 ---
   plt.subplots_adjust(wspace=0.02, hspace=0.02)
   plt.show()
Listing 11-47: Visualizing some of the images and corresponding segmentations
This code plots six frames, distributed evenly over the training-
image sequence ➊. Figure 11-6 shows the resulting plot.
Figure 11-6: The cell images and corresponding segmentations
The top row shows the cell images, while the bottom row displays
the corresponding (silver-standard) ground-truth segmentations. Each
cell is assigned an integer number that’s kept across frames, while the
background is assigned a value of 0.
Creating a Graph from Segmented Images
To use MAGIK on the image dataset, you need to model cell motion
and interactions as a directed graph. In this graph, nodes represent
segmented cells, and edges represent connections between spatially
close cells within and across frames.
Obtaining the Graph
You’ll implement the GraphFromSegmentations class to convert segmented
video frames of cells into a graph. In this graph, each node represents a
detected cell in the video, while edges represent potential connections
between cells, both within the same frame and across consecutive
frames. This class will take into account spatial proximity (through a

--- Strana 754 ---
connectivity radius) and temporal proximity (maximum frame distance)
to determine which nodes should be connected by edges. Additionally,
the class will calculate ground-truth connections between cells based on
known parent-child relationships, allowing the resulting graph to be
used for training and for evaluating cell-tracking algorithms like
MAGIK.
Start implementing this class as shown in Listing 11-48.
class GraphFromSegmentations:
    """Graph representation of the motion of cells."""
 
    def __init__(self, connectivity_radius, max_frame_distance):
        """Initialize graph."""
        self.connectivity_radius = connectivity_radius
        self.max_frame_distance = max_frame_distance
Listing 11-48: The class for constructing a graph from segmentations
This code initializes the class with the parameters connectivity_radius
and max_frame_distance, which set the thresholds for determining whether
two nodes are connected within the graph structure.
You’ll now progressively add the necessary auxiliary methods to
construct the graph, the node attributes, and the ground-truth
connectivity. Then you’ll use those methods in the __call__() method of
the class. You’ll start by adding the get_node_attr() method, as shown in
Listing 11-49.
import numpy as np
from skimage import measure
class GraphFromSegmentations:
    --snip--
    def get_node_attr(self, segmentation):
        """Compute node attributes."""
     ➊ labels = np.unique(segmentation)[1:]  # Labels without background
        node_attr = []
        for label in labels:
            mask = segmentation == label

--- Strana 755 ---
            props = measure.regionprops(mask.astype(np.int32))[0]
            centroid = props.centroid / np.array(segmentation.shape)
            eccentricity = props.eccentricity
            node_attr.append([*centroid, eccentricity])
        return node_attr, labels
Listing 11-49: The method for computing the node attributes (by modifying Listing 11-48)
This method identifies separate objects in each frame of the
segmented video data by using their integer labels, excluding the
background with label 0 ➊. For every cell in the frame, the method
calculates the relevant attributes (namely, the normalized centroid and
eccentricity of the cell) and stores them in node_attr. Finally, the method
returns a collection of node attributes (node_attr) and labels (labels).
Next, add the get_connectivity() method, as shown in Listing 11-50.
--snip--
class GraphFromSegmentations:
    --snip--
    def get_connectivity(self, node_attr, frames):
        """Compute connectivity."""
        xy = node_attr[:, :2]  # Extracted centroids
        distances = np.linalg.norm(xy[:, None] - xy, axis=-1)
        frame_diff = (frames[:, None] - frames) * -1
        mask = ((distances < self.connectivity_radius) 
                & (frame_diff <= self.max_frame_distance) & (frame_diff > 0))
        edge_index, edge_attr = np.argwhere(mask), distances[mask] 
        return edge_index, edge_attr
Listing 11-50: The method for computing the connectivity (by modifying Listing 11-49)
This method calculates pairwise distances between the cell centroids
and the corresponding time difference between frames. Then, based on
the thresholds specified by connectivity_radius and max_frame_distance, the
method identifies nodes that are both spatially and temporally close.
From these nodes, the method returns a set of edge indices (edge_index)
and corresponding distances (edge_attr) representing their connectivity.
Now add the get_gt_connectivity() method, as shown in Listing 11-51.

--- Strana 756 ---
--snip--
class GraphFromSegmentations:
    --snip--
   def get_gt_connectivity(self, labels, edge_index, relation):
        """Compute ground-truth connectivity."""
        src_cell = labels[edge_index[:, 0]] 
        tgt_cell = labels[edge_index[:, 1]]
     ➊ self_connections_mask = src_cell == tgt_cell
        relation_labels = relation[:, [-1, 0]] 
        relation_labels = relation_labels[relation_labels[:, 0] != 0]
        relation_mask = np.zeros(len(edge_index), dtype=bool)
        for i, (s, t) in enumerate(zip(src_cell, tgt_cell)):
            if np.any((relation_labels == [s, t]).all(1)): 
                relation_mask[i] = True
        gt_connectivity = self_connections_mask | relation_mask
        return gt_connectivity
Listing 11-51: The method for computing the ground-truth connectivity (by modifying Listing
11-50)
This method computes the ground-truth edges. The graph
generated by get_connectivity() includes redundant edges that exceed the
actual parent-child relationship between cells. Since MAGIK aims to
prune redundant edges while retaining true connections, the ground
truth for each edge is a binary value indicating whether an edge should
connect two detected cells. Therefore, the method identifies self-
connections where sender and receiver nodes have the same cell labels
➊, indicating that they are the same cell that changed positions as time
has passed.
Next, the method iterates over the parent-child relationships to find
relational connections such as cell divisions. Finally, the method returns
the ground-truth connectivity obtained from the combination of self-
connections and relational connections.
You’re now finally ready to add the __call__() method, which uses the
methods you’ve implemented to construct the graph from the

--- Strana 757 ---
segmentations, as shown in Listing 11-52.
import torch
from torch_geometric.data import Data
--snip--
class GraphFromSegmentations:
    --snip--
    def __call__(self, segmentations, relation):
        """Compute graph."""
        node_attr, node_labels, frames = [], [], []
        for frame, segmentation in enumerate(segmentations):
            features, labels = self.get_node_attr(segmentation)
            node_attr.append(features), node_labels.append(labels)
            frames.append([frame] * len(features))
        node_attr = np.concatenate(node_attr)
        node_labels = np.concatenate(node_labels)
        frames = np.concatenate(frames)
     
        edge_index, edge_attr = self.get_connectivity(node_attr, frames)
        edge_gt = self.get_gt_connectivity(node_labels, edge_index, relation)
     
        graph = Data(
            x=torch.tensor(node_attr, dtype=torch.float),
            edge_index=torch.tensor(edge_index.T, dtype=torch.long),
            edge_attr=torch.tensor(edge_attr[:, None], dtype=torch.float),
            distance=torch.tensor(edge_attr[:, None], dtype=torch.float),
            frames=torch.tensor(frames, dtype=torch.float),
            y=torch.tensor(edge_gt[:, None], dtype=torch.float),
        )
        return graph
Listing 11-52: The class with the call method for obtaining the graph (by modifying Listing
11-50)
The __call__() method takes two inputs: the segmented video frames
(segmentations) and the parent-child relationships between cells (relation).
First, it uses the get_node_attr() method (Listing 11-49) to identify the
cells in each frame of the segmented video data based on their labels.
Then the get_connectivity() method (Listing 11-50) is called to calculate

--- Strana 758 ---
pairwise distances between the cell centroids and the time differences
between frames. After getting the nodes and edges, the
get_gt_connectivity() method is called (Listing 11-51) to compute the
ground-truth edges. Finally, it constructs a PyTorch Data object by using
node attributes, edge indices, attributes, distances, frames, and ground-
truth connectivity. This object encapsulates all necessary information
for training and testing.
You can now instantiate the GraphFromSegmentations class with a
connectivity radius of 0.2 (20 percent of the image size) and a maximum
frame distance of 2 to reconnect cells not detected in consecutive
frames:
graph_constructor = GraphFromSegmentations(connectivity_radius=0.2, 
                                           max_frame_distance=2)
Then use graph_constructor to construct the training graph:
train_file = os.path.join(dataset_path, "DIC-C2DH-HeLa", "02_GT", "TRA", 
                          "man_track.txt")
train_graph = graph_constructor(segmentations=train_segs, 
                                relation=np.loadtxt(train_file, dtype=int))
This code constructs the graph by using the training segmentations and
parent-child relationships between cells contained in the man_track.txt
file.
Visualizing the Graph Data Structure
After constructing the graph, let’s visualize its properties. Start by
identifying the number of nodes and edges with print("Number of nodes:",
len(train_graph.x)) and print("Number of edges:",
len(train_graph.edge_index[0])), which print Number of nodes: 988 and Number of
edges: 3036, respectively.
You can also plot the structure of the graph with Listing 11-53.
plt.figure(figsize=(8, 8))
for i, j in train_graph.edge_index.T:
    plt.plot([train_graph.x[i, 1], train_graph.x[j, 1]],

--- Strana 759 ---
             [train_graph.x[i, 0], train_graph.x[j, 0]], c="black", alpha=0.5)
plt.scatter(train_graph.x[:, 1], train_graph.x[:, 0], 
            c=train_graph.frames, cmap="viridis", zorder=10)
cb = plt.colorbar()
cb.ax.set_title("Frame", fontsize=14)
plt.xlabel("x", fontsize=14)
plt.ylabel("y", fontsize=14)
plt.show()
Listing 11-53: Plotting the graph
This code produces the graph in Figure 11-7.
Figure 11-7: The graph representing the cells and their relations
This scatterplot depicts a graph with nodes represented as dots. The
x- and y-coordinates represent the normalized node centroids. The
color of each dot corresponds to the frame number, as shown by the
color bar. The black lines on the plot illustrate the edges. Even though
it’s quite crowded, this graph allows you to visualize how cells move and

--- Strana 760 ---
divide over time. For example, a single node connected to multiple
nodes in subsequent frames may indicate a cell division, while the
patterns of edges can reveal how cells interact spatially and temporally
across the video sequence.
Building a Training Dataset
The training dataset consists of a single graph derived from the training
video sequence. Although this data may appear too limited, it’s sufficient
to train the MAGIK model. To address the scarcity of data, you can
augment the training graph by splitting it into smaller subgraphs
obtained from a limited range of frames. The CellTracingDataset class in
Listing 11-54 implements this augmentation strategy.
class CellTracingDataset(torch.utils.data.Dataset):
    """Class to prepare the graph dataset."""
 
    def __init__(self, graph, Dt, dataset_size, transform=None):
        """Initialize the graph dataset."""
        self.graph, self.Dt, self.dataset_size, self.transform = \
            graph, Dt, dataset_size, transform 
    def __len__(self):
        """Obtain length of dataset."""
        return self.dataset_size
    def __getitem__(self, idx):
        """Return a graph from the dataset."""
        frames, edge_index = self.graph.frames, self.graph.edge_index
     ➊ select_frame = np.random.randint(self.Dt, frames.max() + 1)
        start_frame = select_frame - self.Dt
        node_mask = (frames >= start_frame) & (frames < select_frame)
        node_attr = self.graph.x[node_mask]
        frame_pairs = torch.stack([frames[edge_index[0, :]], 
                                   frames[edge_index[1, :]]], axis=1)
        edge_mask = (frame_pairs >= start_frame) & (frame_pairs < select_frame)

--- Strana 761 ---
        edge_mask = edge_mask.all(axis=1) 
        edge_index = edge_index[:, edge_mask] - edge_index[:, edge_mask].min()
        graph = Data(
            x=node_attr, 
            edge_index=edge_index,
            edge_attr=self.graph.edge_attr[edge_mask],
            distance=self.graph.edge_attr[edge_mask], 
            y=self.graph.y[edge_mask],  # Ground-truth edges
        )
        if self.transform: graph = self.transform(graph)
        return graph
Listing 11-54: The class for preparing the graph dataset
This code constructs a class to divide the training graph into smaller
temporal subgraphs. The Dt parameter determines the number of frames
in each subgraph. The dataset_size parameter determines the number of
subgraphs to be generated in each training epoch. The __getitem__()
method generates subgraphs from the dataset by randomly selecting a
starting frame ➊ and then constructing the subgraph by getting nodes
and edges within a Dt window from that frame. Finally, the class returns
the subgraph as a PyTorch Data object.
To further enhance the training dataset, you can apply additional
augmentations to the subgraphs. The CellTracingDataset class provides the
flexibility to include custom augmentations by inputting them into the
transform parameter. For example, Listing 11-55 defines two
augmentations.
from math import cos, pi, sin
class RandomRotation:
    """Random rotation."""
 
    def __call__(self, graph):
        """Perform the random rotation."""
        graph = graph.clone()
        node_attr = graph.x[:, :2] - 0.5  # Centered positions

--- Strana 762 ---
        angle = np.random.rand() * 2 * pi
        R = torch.tensor([[cos(angle), -sin(angle)], [sin(angle), cos(angle)]])
        rotated_node_attr = torch.matmul(node_attr, R)
        graph.x[:, :2] = rotated_node_attr + 0.5  # Restored positions
        return graph
 
class RandomFlip:
    """Random flip."""
 
    def __call__(self, graph):
        """Perform the random flip."""
        graph = graph.clone()
        node_attr = graph.x[:, :2] - 0.5  # Centered positions
        if np.random.randint(2): node_attr[:, 0] *= -1
        if np.random.randint(2): node_attr[:, 1] *= -1
        graph.x[:, :2] = node_attr + 0.5  # Restored positions
        return graph
Listing 11-55: The classes for defining the random rotation and random flip
This code defines the RandomRotation class to randomly rotate the
positional attributes of the nodes within the subgraph and the RandomFlip
class to randomly flip the positional attributes of the nodes along the x-
or y-axis.
You can finally create the training dataset with Listing 11-56.
from torchvision.transforms import Compose
train_set = CellTracingDataset(
    train_graph, Dt=5, dataset_size=512, 
    transform=Compose([RandomRotation(), RandomFlip()]),
)
Listing 11-56: Creating the training dataset
This code creates the training dataset with a time window size of 5.
In each epoch, the code generates 512 subgraphs from the training
graph by using the augmentations defined in Listing 11-55.
From here, you can define the data loaders with Listing 11-57.

--- Strana 763 ---
from torch_geometric.loader import DataLoader
train_loader = DataLoader(train_set, batch_size=8, shuffle=True)
Listing 11-57: Defining the data loaders
This code defines the data loaders with a batch size of 8.
Making MAGIK
Now that you’ve prepared the dataset, you’re ready to train MAGIK.
This algorithm is similar to the message-passing neural networks from
previous examples. The main difference is that MAGIK implements a
local attention mechanism that allows the model to concentrate on
specific nodes and edges during message passing.
This mechanism comes into play when aggregating messages. Each
message’s contribution has a weight that depends on the distance
between the connected nodes. A function with learnable parameters
defines a learnable local receptive field. When deciding how to update
the information for a particular cell, the model doesn’t treat all
connections equally. Instead, it gives more importance, or weight, to
connections with nearby cells. The model learns how much importance
to give based on the distance between the cells, helping it better
understand and predict the way cells are likely to move and interact over
time.
With this mechanism, MAGIK can focus on relevant, distance-based
attributes during message passing. This approach is crucial for cell-
tracking tasks because it enables the model to accurately identify which
connections between cells in different frames represent true movements
and interactions, while filtering out redundant or irrelevant edges.
Instantiating MAGIK
You can instantiate the MAGIK model with Listing 11-58.
import deeplay as dl
model = dl.GraphToEdgeMAGIK([96,] * 4, 1, out_activation=torch.nn.Sigmoid)

--- Strana 764 ---
model.encoder[0].configure(hidden_features=[32, 64], out_features=96, 
                           out_activation=torch.nn.ReLU)
model.encoder[1].configure(hidden_features=[32, 64], out_features=96, 
                           out_activation=torch.nn.ReLU)
model.head.configure(hidden_features=[64, 32])
Listing 11-58: Defining the MAGIK model
This code sets up the GraphToEdgeMAGIK simplified version of MAGIK.
The model has four layers, each containing 96 hidden attributes. Along
with the message-passing layers, the model also includes a node
encoder, an edge encoder, and a classification head.
The node and edge encoders are configured with three layers, each
with 32, 64, and 96 hidden attributes. The classification head consists of
two hidden layers with 64 and 32 hidden attributes and a final output
layer with a single output and a sigmoid activation function by default.
You can use print(model) to print a detailed model summary.
Training MAGIK
After instantiating MAGIK, you can use Listing 11-59 to train the
model.
classifier = dl.BinaryClassifier(model=model, optimizer=dl.Adam(lr=1e-3))
classifier = classifier.create()
trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=10)
trainer.fit(classifier, train_loader)
Listing 11-59: Training the MAGIK model
This code compiles the MAGIK model as a binary classifier and
trains it for 10 epochs.
Evaluating Performance
Once you’ve trained the model, you can evaluate its performance on the
test dataset. Start by loading the test data with Listing 11-60.

--- Strana 765 ---
test_image_path = os.path.join(dataset_path, "DIC-C2DH-HeLa", "01")
test_seg_path = os.path.join(dataset_path, "DIC-C2DH-HeLa", "01_ST", "SEG")
test_images = load_images(test_image_path)
test_segs = load_images(test_seg_path)
Listing 11-60: Loading the test data
Next, construct the test graph with Listing 11-61.
test_file = os.path.join(dataset_path, "DIC-C2DH-HeLa", "01_GT", "TRA", 
                         "man_track.txt")
test_graph = graph_constructor(segmentations=test_segs, 
                               relation=np.loadtxt(test_file, dtype=int))
Listing 11-61: Constructing the test graph
This code uses the parent-child relationships from the test data TRA
file.
Calculating the F1 Score
After creating the test graph, you can assess the model’s performance by
calculating the F1 score of the predicted and ground-truth edge
classifications, as shown in Listing 11-62.
from sklearn.metrics import f1_score
classifier.eval()
pred = classifier(test_graph)
predictions = pred.detach().numpy() > 0.5
ground_truth = test_graph.y
score = f1_score(ground_truth, predictions)
print(f"Test F1 score: {score}")
Listing 11-62: Assessing the model performance with the F1 score
You can expect an F1 score of approximately 0.99 on the test graph,
exhibiting the model’s ability to accurately predict cell temporal

--- Strana 766 ---
associations.
Getting the Cell Trajectories
Unfortunately, MAGIK doesn’t output cell trajectories. It outputs only a
graph structure that shows potential connections between cells across
frames and can include both same-cell connections and parent-child
relations. MAGIK provides each potential connection with a weight
factor that can be interpreted as a probability. To generate cell
trajectories, you need to apply a post-processing algorithm to the
predicted graph structure.
The ComputeTrajectories class in Listing 11-63 implements a simple
post-processing algorithm to compute cell trajectories from MAGIK
predictions.
import networkx as nx
class ComputeTrajectories:
    """Computation of trajectories."""
    def __call__(self, graph, predictions):
        """Compute trajectories."""
        pruned_edges = self.prune_edges(graph, predictions)
        pruned_graph = nx.Graph()
        pruned_graph.add_edges_from(pruned_edges)
        trajectories = list(nx.connected_components(pruned_graph))
        return trajectories
    def prune_edges(self, graph, predictions):
        """Prune edges."""
        pruned_edges = []
        frame_pairs = np.stack([graph.frames[graph.edge_index[0]], 
                                graph.frames[graph.edge_index[1]]], axis=1)
        for src_cell in np.unique(graph.edge_index[0]): 
         ➊ src_cell_mask = graph.edge_index[0] == src_cell
         ➋ tgt_cell_candidates = predictions[src_cell_mask] == True
            if np.any(tgt_cell_candidates):

--- Strana 767 ---
                frame_diff = (frame_pairs[src_cell_mask, 1] 
                              - frame_pairs[src_cell_mask, 0])
                min_frame_diff = frame_diff[tgt_cell_candidates].min()
                tgt_cell_mask = (tgt_cell_candidates 
                                 & (frame_diff == min_frame_diff))
             ➌ edge = graph.edge_index[:, src_cell_mask][:, tgt_cell_mask]
                edge = edge.reshape(-1, 2)
             ➍ if len(edge) == 1:
                    pruned_edges.append(tuple(*edge.numpy()))
        return pruned_edges
Listing 11-63: The class to compute trajectories from MAGIK results
This code generates a set of trajectories from the linked edges
labeled by MAGIK. The algorithm starts by selecting a node in the first
frame (at time t = 0) ➊, then links it to other nodes in the following
frames, using only edges labeled as “linked” by MAGIK ➋. If there are
no “linked” edges connecting the sender node at time t to any receiver
nodes at time t + 1, the algorithm checks future frames up to a
maximum time delay ➌. If no “linked” edges are found within this time
frame, the trajectory ends. When a sender node has two “linked” edges
connecting it to two receiver nodes in a later frame, it’s identified as a
cell division. In this case, the algorithm creates two new trajectories ➍.
This process repeats until all “linked” edges are dealt with.
You can now compute the trajectories with the following commands:
compute_trajectories = ComputeTrajectories()
trajectories = compute_trajectories(test_graph, predictions.squeeze())
Here, the code instantiates the class to compute the trajectories and
applies it to the test graph output by MAGIK.
Visualizing the Cell Trajectories
Now that you’ve computed the trajectories, you can visualize them on
top of the segmented video frames, using Listing 11-64.
from IPython.display import HTML
from matplotlib.animation import FuncAnimation

--- Strana 768 ---
fig, ax = plt.subplots(figsize=(8, 8))
list_of_colors = plt.get_cmap("tab20b", len(trajectories))
def update(frame):
    """Update frame."""
    ax.clear()
    ax.imshow(test_images[frame], cmap="gray")
    segmentation = test_segs[frame]
    for label in np.unique(segmentation)[1:]:
        contour = measure.find_contours(segmentation == label, 0.5)[0]
        ax.fill(contour[:, 1], contour[:, 0], color=list_of_colors(label),
                alpha=0.5, linewidth=2)
    ax.text(0, -5, f"Frame: {frame}", fontsize=16, c="k")
    for i, t in enumerate(trajectories):
        frames = test_graph.frames[list(t)]
        xy_all = test_graph.x[list(t)] * 512
        xy_frame = xy_all[frames == frame]
        if len(xy_frame) != 0:
            ax.scatter(xy_frame[:, 1], xy_frame[:, 0])
            ax.text(xy_frame[0, 1], xy_frame[0, 0], str(i), fontsize=16, c="w")
                 
            xy_previous = xy_all[(frames <= frame) & (frames >= frame - 10)]
            ax.plot(xy_previous[:, 1], xy_previous[:, 0], c="w")
                 
            ax.plot(xy_frame[max(0, frame - 10):frame, 1], 
                    xy_frame[max(0, frame - 10):frame, 0], c="r")
    return ax
animation = FuncAnimation(fig, update, frames=len(test_segs))
video = HTML(animation.to_jshtml())
plt.close()
Listing 11-64: Visualizing the cell trajectories as a video
This code produces a video showing the linked cell trajectories. You
can view this video by typing video. Figure 11-8 shows a frame.

--- Strana 769 ---
Figure 11-8: A frame from the reconstructed video, with the cell trajectories
When you watch the video, you should see that the cell trajectories
are mostly correctly reconstructed, even when a cell divides.
NOTE
Code Example 11-B, “Identifying Trajectories with MAGIK,” is
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch11_GNN folder and then ec11_B_magik. The
magik.ipynb notebook provides a complete code example to track the
motion of cells by using a simplified version of MAGIK.

--- Strana 770 ---
Summary
In this chapter, you explored the theory, implementation, and
applications of graph neural networks, focusing on how they capture the
relationships inherent in graphs to analyze complex patterns in graph-
structured data.
The chapter started by explaining the basics of graph convolutions,
comparing them to the image convolutions used by the convolutional
neural networks from Chapter 3. You learned how to represent graphs
by using adjacency matrices and how to implement graph convolutions
to transform node attributes based on their edges. Through practical
examples, you grasped the process of applying graph convolutions to
different types of graphs, including cycle graphs and undirected graphs.
You moved on to more advanced problems such as predicting
molecular properties via graph neural networks. For this task, you
implemented a graph convolution layer, improved it with self-loops and
normalization, and applied it to the ZINC dataset for molecular
property prediction. You also enhanced your graph convolutional
network with embedding layers, global average pooling, and a dense top
for regression tasks.
To help you increase the network’s accuracy, this chapter taught you
about message-passing neural networks, highlighting their ability to
incorporate edge attributes into the graph representation. You learned
to implement a message-passing layer and apply it to predict molecular
properties, which improved your model’s performance over simple
graph convolutional networks.
You also worked on two extensive projects: simulating complex
physical phenomena and identifying cell trajectories. In the first project,
you built a graph network–based simulator to model granular systems
with the SAND dataset. You mastered the process of constructing
graphs, passing messages, and simulating system dynamics. In the
second project, you implemented MAGIK, a graph neural network–
based algorithm for tracking cell motion in biological images. This
required creating graphs from segmented images, training the model,
and evaluating its performance in identifying cell trajectories.

--- Strana 771 ---
As graph neural networks evolve, their potential applications are
bound to expand. From advancements in drug discovery and
personalized medicine to breakthroughs in social network analysis and
artificial intelligence, graph neural networks are set to revolutionize
various fields by leveraging the interconnected nature of data. By
mastering these innovative tools, you’re ideally positioned to exploit
their potential in a whole new series of applications.
Seminal Works and Further Reading
The foundation of graph neural networks was laid by Franco Scarselli et
al. in 2009 in “The Graph Neural Network Model,” published in IEEE
Transactions on Neural Networks (volume 20, pages 61–80). This work
proposed a framework for processing data represented as graphs,
enabling the learning of representations directly from graph structures.
In 2014, Joan Bruna et al. presented “Spectral Networks and Locally
Connected Networks on Graphs” at the International Conference on
Learning Representations (ICLR) and also published it on arXiv (article
number 1312.6203), extending the idea of convolution to graphs.
In 2017, Justin Gilmer et al. introduced the message-passing neural
network framework in “Neural Message Passing for Quantum
Chemistry,” presented at the 34th International Conference on Machine
Learning (ICML) and published in its proceedings (PMLR, volume 70,
pages 1,263–1,272). This framework unified various graph neural
network architectures under a single message-passing paradigm, where
nodes iteratively exchange messages with neighbors to update their state
representation. The message-passing mechanism became a cornerstone
for graph neural networks, underlying many later models, such as graph
convolutional networks and graph attention networks.
Graph convolutional networks were introduced in 2016 by Thomas
N. Kipf and Max Welling in “Semi-Supervised Classification with
Graph Convolutional Networks,” published on arXiv (article number
1609.02907) and presented in 2017 at ICLR.
Graph attention networks were introduced in 2017 by Petar
Velickovic et al. in “Graph Attention Networks,” published on arXiv

--- Strana 772 ---
(article number 1710.10903) and presented in 2018 at ICLR. Graph
attention networks incorporated an attention mechanism into the graph
learning process, allowing the network to assign varying levels of
importance to different nodes in the neighborhood and enhancing the
model’s ability to capture complex relationships in graph data.
Another notable application of graph-based deep learning is the
MAGIK algorithm, published in 2023 by Jesús Pineda et al. in
“Geometric Deep Learning Reveals the Spatiotemporal Features of
Microscopic Motion,” published in Nature Machine Intelligence (volume
5, pages 71–82). You used MAGIK in Project 11B to track and analyze
the motion of cells.
A landmark application of graph-based neural networks in biological
sciences was demonstrated in 2021 by John Jumper et al. in “Highly
Accurate Protein Structure Prediction with AlphaFold,” published in
Nature (volume 596, pages 583–589). AlphaFold achieved
unprecedented success in predicting protein structures using advanced
graph neural networks and attention mechanisms, treating the protein
structure prediction problem as a spatial graph learning challenge. The
profound impact of AlphaFold on the scientific community has been
recognized with the award of a share of the 2024 Nobel Prize in
Chemistry to two of its creators, Demis Hassabis and John Jumper.
CHALLENGE PROJECTS
11-1: Node classification on citation networks  Implement a
graph convolutional network to classify scientific publications into
predefined categories. Use the Cora dataset, which contains 2,708
nodes (papers) with 1,433 dimensional attribute vectors and 5,429
edges (citations). Train your model to predict the class of each
paper and evaluate its performance by using metrics such as
accuracy and F1 score. Compare your results with a baseline
model, such as a simple multilayer perceptron.

--- Strana 773 ---
11-2: Link prediction in biomedical literature  Develop a
graph convolutional network model to predict missing links in a
citation network. Use the PubMed Diabetes dataset, which
includes 19,717 scientific publications with 500 dimensional
attribute vectors and 44,338 edges. Train your model to identify
potential new citations and assess its performance by using
AUROC and precision-recall metrics. Compare your model’s
performance with methods that are not based on graph neural
networks, like common neighbors or Jaccard similarity.
11-3: Graph classification for chemical compounds 
Construct a graph convolutional network to classify chemical
compounds based on their mutagenicity. Use the MUTAG dataset,
consisting of 188 graphs with nodes representing atoms and edges
representing chemical bonds. Each graph is labeled as mutagenic
or non-mutagenic. Train your model to perform graph
classification and then evaluate its performance by using accuracy
and F1 score. Compare your results with traditional machine
learning methods, such as random forests or support vector
machines, applied to graph kernel attributes.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 774 ---
12
CONTINUOUSLY IMPROVING
PERFORMANCE WITH ACTIVE LEARNING
Not all data is created equal. In many cases, the cost of labeling data is
high, and the amount of labeled data is limited. In this chapter, you’ll
explore active learning, a semi-supervised learning method that aims to
reduce the cost of labeling data by selecting the most informative data
points to label.
Active learning is an advanced approach in the field of machine
learning that emphasizes continuous, iterative learning. It stands out
because of its dynamic nature—specifically, the way the learning
algorithm actively selects the most informative and relevant data points
to learn from. This approach makes the learning process more efficient,
addressing a major challenge in traditional machine learning by
significantly reducing the amount of labeled data required.
To begin, you’ll discover the principles and strategies of active
learning, particularly how it differs from standard learning paradigms
and its practical advantages. This chapter will guide you through the
application of active learning to binary and multiclass classification

--- Strana 775 ---
tasks, culminating in a project that applies active learning strategies to
classify MNIST digits by using a neural network.
By the end of this chapter, you’ll have a solid understanding of how
active learning operates so that you can implement it in your own
projects to make your models more responsive and efficient.
Understanding Active Learning
In traditional supervised learning, models depend heavily on extensive
labeled datasets. Acquiring these labels often involves considerable time
and cost, especially in specialized fields requiring expert annotations.
Active learning mitigates this issue by selecting only the most
informative samples for labeling. In doing so, it reduces the required
amount of labeled data, making the learning process more efficient.
Through iterative querying and labeling, active learning enables models
to achieve higher accuracy with fewer labeled samples.
A core component of active learning is the query strategy. This
strategy determines the way the active learning algorithm selects data
points to label. Common query strategies include uncertainty sampling,
where the model queries samples it’s least confident about, and query-by-
committee, where a committee of models selects the most contentious
samples for labeling. The underlying idea is that samples with high
uncertainty or disagreement between models are often the most
informative, because they represent areas where the models’
understanding is weakest and can benefit most from additional labeled
data.
The unlabeled pool is another essential element in active learning. It
consists of a large set of unlabeled data from which the active learning
algorithm selects samples to query as potential candidates for labeling.
The diversity and size of the unlabeled pool directly impact the
effectiveness of the active learning strategy.
The labeling oracle supplies the final crucial part of the active learning
loop. This is the source of ground-truth labels for the queried samples.
Depending on the application, the labeling oracle could be a human
annotator, an expert in the field, or an automated labeling system. The

--- Strana 776 ---
oracle’s accuracy and efficiency in providing labels are critical for the
active learning process.
Besides its efficiency and cost-effectiveness, another key advantage
of active learning is its adaptability. In a rapidly changing environment,
it’s crucial for machine learning models to continuously adapt to new
data and evolving patterns. Active learning facilitates this by enabling
continuous learning. The iterative querying and labeling process allows
the model to update its knowledge base in response to new information.
This adaptability ensures that the model remains relevant and accurate
over time, even as the underlying data distribution changes.
Performing Binary Classification
To begin developing an intuition for how active learning works, you’ll
classify a simple dataset composed of two distinct groups of data points.
You’ll start by generating and visualizing the dataset, which will help
you understand the fundamental concepts of binary classification. Then
you’ll implement a logistic regression model to classify these data
points. Finally, you’ll explore how active learning can improve the
model’s performance by selectively querying the most informative
samples.
Creating a Dataset with Two Groups of Data Points
Start by creating two groups of data points with Listing 12-1.
   import numpy as np
   gr0 = np.random.normal(loc=(-2, 0), scale=(1, 1), size=(100, 2))
   gr1 = np.random.normal(loc=(2, 0), scale=(1, 1), size=(100, 2))
➊ x = np.vstack((gr0, gr1))
➋ y = np.hstack((np.zeros(len(gr0)), np.ones(len(gr1))))
Listing 12-1: Creating a dataset with two groups of data
This code generates two groups of data points (gr0 and gr1), each
containing 100 samples. It centers the gr0 group on the point (–2, 0)

--- Strana 777 ---
with a standard deviation of 1 for both coordinates, and the gr1 group on
(2, 0) with the same standard deviation. The code then combines the
data points from both groups into a single NumPy array ➊ and
combines their labels corresponding to which dataset they belong to
into another NumPy array ➋.
Now plot the dataset using Listing 12-2.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
plt.scatter(gr0[:, 0], gr0[:, 1], marker="o", s=5, c="C0")
plt.scatter(gr1[:, 0], gr1[:, 1], marker="^", s=5, c="C1")
plt.xlim(-5, 5)
plt.ylim(-3, 3)
plt.show()
Listing 12-2: Plotting the dataset with two groups of data
Figure 12-1 shows the resulting plot.

--- Strana 778 ---
Figure 12-1: Data for binary classification with two groups
You can see the two groups of data points that are generated. The
circles represent gr0, centered on the point (–2, 0), while the triangles
represent gr1, centered on (2, 0). These two groups will serve as the basis
for the binary classification task.
Classifying the Data Points with a Logistic Regression
To classify the data points, let’s use a simple logistic regression model
instead of a neural network to keep the focus on the active learning
process. Listing 12-3 shows the code for training and testing the model.
from sklearn.linear_model import LogisticRegression

--- Strana 779 ---
def train_model(x_train, y_train, x_test, y_test):
    """Find optimal decision boundary using a logistic regression."""
    model = LogisticRegression()
    model.fit(x_train, y_train)
    accuracy = model.score(x_test, y_test)
    return model, accuracy
Listing 12-3: The function to train and test the model with a logistic regression
This function trains a logistic regression model by fitting it to the
training data; then the function evaluates the model’s accuracy on the
test data.
Once you’ve defined the function, train the model on the entire
dataset:
model, full_accuracy = train_model(x, y, x, y)
Here, you use the same data for training and testing. You can print the
accuracy of the trained model with print(full_accuracy), which in our run
was 0.97. Such a high accuracy means that the logistic regression model
is capable of effectively distinguishing between the two groups of data
points.
In the next sections, you’ll use the active learning process to
iteratively select the most informative data points to label, train the
model on these selected points, and observe how the model’s
performance evolves as you increase the labeled samples. This approach
aims to achieve similar or even better accuracy with significantly less
labeled data.
Implementing the Active Learning Process
Now that you’ve set up the logistic regression model, you’ll define a
function for the active learning process, as shown in Listing 12-4.
def train_active_learning(x, y, budget, query):
    """Train binary classifier with active learning."""
 ➊ annotated_idxs = [np.random.choice(np.where(y == i)[0]) for i in [0, 1]]
    unannotated_idxs = np.setdiff1d(np.arange(x.shape[0]), annotated_idxs)

--- Strana 780 ---
    accuracy_history = []
    for _ in range(budget):
     ➋ annotated_x, annotations = x[annotated_idxs], y[annotated_idxs]
        unannotated_x = x[unannotated_idxs]
     ➌ model, accuracy = train_model(annotated_x, annotations, x, y)
        accuracy_history.append(accuracy)
     
     ➍ idx_to_annotate = query(model, unannotated_x)
     ➎ annotated_idxs = np.append(annotated_idxs,
                                   unannotated_idxs[idx_to_annotate])
        unannotated_idxs = np.delete(unannotated_idxs, idx_to_annotate)
    return accuracy_history, model, annotated_idxs
Listing 12-4: The function to perform the active learning for binary classification
This code implements the core loop of the active learning process.
To begin, it annotates a small seed dataset by picking one random data
point from each class ➊. In a real-world scenario, this is usually a small,
randomly selected subset of the full dataset.
In each loop of the active learning cycle, the function extracts the
annotated data ➋, trains the model on the annotated dataset ➌, and
stores the model’s accuracy calculated on the test data. Then the
function selects a new data point to annotate, using a query strategy that
aims to select the most informative data point from the unannotated
dataset ➍, and adds this data point to the list of annotated data ➎. The
function repeats these steps until it exhausts the budget for labeling data.
By iteratively selecting and annotating the most informative data points,
the model becomes increasingly accurate with each cycle.
Random Sampling
As you learned at the beginning of the chapter, active learning uses a
query strategy to select the most informative samples for labeling. In
turn, it’s crucial to familiarize yourself with multiple query strategies so
that you can choose the one most suited to your particular task. For the
binary classification example, you can first test what happens if you use a

--- Strana 781 ---
random query strategy. To do so, implement the query_random() function
with Listing 12-5.
def query_random(model, unannotated_x):
    """Randomly select data point to annotate."""
    return np.random.randint(len(unannotated_x))
Listing 12-5: The function to select a data point at random
This function extracts a point at random to add to the annotated
dataset.
Now perform active learning with a random query strategy:
accuracy_history_random, model_random, annotated_idxs_random = \
    train_active_learning(x, y, budget=25, query=query_random)
In our run of the code, this strategy resulted in an accuracy of around
0.95, which is slightly worse than the accuracy the model achieved when
using the whole dataset.
To understand the model’s decision-making and assess the
effectiveness of the active learning process, it’s useful to visualize which
data has been annotated as well as the model’s final decision boundary.
You can do this via the plot_model() function in Listing 12-6.
def plot_model(model, gr0, gr1, annotated_x, annotations):
    """Plot model decision boundary and annotated data."""
    plt.scatter(gr0[:, 0], gr0[:, 1], marker="o", s=0.5, c="C0")
    plt.scatter(gr1[:, 0], gr1[:, 1], marker="^", s=0.5, c="C1")
    plt.scatter(annotated_x[~annotations, 0], annotated_x[~annotations, 1], 
                marker="o", s=100, c="C0", label="Selected Group 1")
    plt.scatter(annotated_x[annotations, 0], annotated_x[annotations, 1], 
                marker="^", s=100, c="C1", label="Selected Group 2")
    beta_1, beta_2 = model.coef_[0]
    intercept = model.intercept_
 ➊ boundary_x = np.linspace(-5, 5, 100)
 ➋ boundary_y = (- intercept - beta_1 * boundary_x) / beta_2
    plt.plot(boundary_x, boundary_y, c="black", label="Decision Boundary")

--- Strana 782 ---
    plt.xlim(-5, 5)
    plt.ylim(-3, 3)
    plt.legend()
    plt.show()
Listing 12-6: The function to plot the model, the annotated data, and its decision boundary
This function plots the points in the two classes of the dataset as
small circles and small triangles. It then highlights the selected points
from each class with larger markers.
In addition to the data points, the function calculates and plots the
decision boundary of the logistic regression model. First, the function
extracts the coefficients β1 and β2 from the trained model, which
represent the weights of the features in the decision function. The
function also retrieves the intercept term of the model, y0, the bias
added to the weighted sum of the features. Then the function generates
a range of x-values to cover the span of the data ➊ and computes the
corresponding y-values by using the equation of the line y = (–y0 + β1x)/
β2, which forms the decision boundary ➋. Finally, the function plots this
decision boundary as a black line on the graph, illustrating where the
model separated the two groups based on its learned parameters.
You can now use this function with the following:
plot_model(model_random, gr0, gr1, 
           annotated_x=x[annotated_idxs_random], 
           annotations=y[annotated_idxs_random].astype(bool))
This should generate a scatterplot similar to Figure 12-2.

--- Strana 783 ---
Figure 12-2: The decision boundary (line) and annotated data (large symbols) with random
sampling
The small markers represent the entire dataset, while the large
markers indicate the points selected for annotation during the active
learning process. The black line indicates the decision boundary of the
logistic regression model. The plot reveals that the model sampled most
points from the center of the groups, which isn’t ideal for estimating the
decision boundary and, consequently, reduces accuracy.
Uncertainty Sampling
Having established a baseline query strategy with the random sampling,
you can now use a more informative query strategy known as uncertainty
sampling. As its name indicates, this approach selects the data points for

--- Strana 784 ---
which the model’s predictions have the most uncertainty. In other
words, these are the points from which you can extract the greatest
amount of new information. You can implement this strategy with the
query_uncertainty function in Listing 12-7.
def query_uncertainty(model, unannotated_x):
    """Select data point to annotate randomly with uncertainty sampling.""" 
    probabilities = model.predict_proba(unannotated_x)
    return np.argmin(np.max(probabilities, axis=1))
Listing 12-7: The function to select data with uncertainty sampling
This function implements uncertainty sampling by selecting the data
point about which the model is least confident, based on the predicted
probabilities. Initially, the function uses the predict_proba() method from
the LogisticRegression object to return an array where each row
corresponds to a sample and each column corresponds to a class. The
values in the array represent the probability that a given sample belongs
to a given class. For a binary classification problem, the output will be
an array with shape (n_samples, 2). For a multiclass classification problem,
the output will have shape (n_samples, n_classes).
The function then identifies the data point whose prediction poses
the highest uncertainty for the model by finding the sample with the
smallest maximum probability across all classes. By selecting this
sample, the model can gain the most information from having it labeled.
Perform the active learning with uncertainty sampling:
accuracy_history_uncertainty, model_uncertainty, annotated_idxs_uncertainty = \
    train_active_learning(x, y, budget=25, query=query_uncertainty)
In our run of the code, the uncertainty sampling resulted in an accuracy
of 0.965.
You can then plot the decision boundary and sampled annotations:
plot_model(model_uncertainty, gr0, gr1, 
           annotated_x=x[annotated_idxs_uncertainty], 
           annotations=y[annotated_idxs_uncertainty].astype(bool))

--- Strana 785 ---
This should produce a scatterplot similar to Figure 12-3.
Figure 12-3: The decision boundary (line) and annotated data (large symbols) with
uncertainty sampling
You can see that these data points, unlike those in Figure 12-2, are
sampled near the decision boundary. This line represents where the
model is most uncertain and can gain the most information from
additional labels.
Comparing Random and Uncertainty Sampling Strategies
Because of the stochastic nature of random sampling, your results may
vary. To compare the two strategies, you should average them over

--- Strana 786 ---
multiple runs. Using Listing 12-8, conduct multiple experiments for
each query strategy, enabling you to compare the mean result.
trials = 50
accuracy_histories_random, accuracy_histories_uncertainty = [], []
for _ in range(trials):
    accuracy_history_random, *_ = \
        train_active_learning(x, y, budget=25, query=query_random)
    accuracy_histories_random.append(accuracy_history_random)
 
    accuracy_history_uncertainty, *_ = \
        train_active_learning(x, y, budget=25, query=query_uncertainty)
    accuracy_histories_uncertainty.append(accuracy_history_uncertainty)
Listing 12-8: Calculating the average accuracy as a function of annotations
This code conducts 50 experiments for each query strategy and logs
the resulting accuracy as a function of the number of annotations into
NumPy arrays.
You can then plot the average accuracy as a function of the number
of annotations, using Listing 12-9.
plt.plot(np.mean(accuracy_histories_random, axis=0), "^:", label="Random")
plt.plot(np.mean(accuracy_histories_uncertainty, axis=0), "v--", 
         label="Uncertainty Sampling")
plt.xlabel("Number of Annotations", fontsize=16)
plt.ylabel("Accuracy", fontsize=16)
plt.legend()
plt.show()
Listing 12-9: Plotting the average accuracy as a function of annotations
This code should produce a plot similar to Figure 12-4.

--- Strana 787 ---
Figure 12-4: The average accuracy as a function of annotations over multiple trials
The uncertainty sampling strategy converges more quickly and
achieves better average performance than the random sampling strategy.
NOTE
Code Example 12-1, “Training a Binary Classifier with Active
Learning,” 
is 
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch12_AL folder and then ec12_1_active2. The
active2.ipynb notebook provides a complete code example that uses
active learning to classify points in a plane into two classes.

--- Strana 788 ---
Performing Multiclass Classification
When transitioning to multiclass classification, the concept of
uncertainty becomes more complex. In binary classification, uncertainty
can be represented as a single value, but in multiclass classification,
uncertainty becomes a vector of values. You can measure uncertainty in
several ways in this context, and your choice will significantly impact the
performance of the active learning algorithm. You’ll see the most
common options in this section.
Creating a Dataset with Three Groups of Data Points
To illustrate the complexities of multiclass classification, use Listing 12-
10 to create a dataset consisting of three distinct groups of data points,
with each group representing a different class.
--snip--
gr0 = np.random.normal(loc=(-2.2, 0), scale=(1, 1), size=(150, 2))
gr1 = np.random.normal(loc=(2.2, 0), scale=(1, 1), size=(150, 2))
gr2 = np.random.normal(loc=(0, 2.5), scale=(1, 1), size=(150, 2))
x = np.vstack((gr0, gr1, gr2))
y = np.hstack((np.zeros(len(gr0)), np.ones(len(gr1)), 2 * np.ones(len(gr2))))
Listing 12-10: Creating a dataset with three groups of data (by modifying Listing 12-1)
This code generates three groups of data points, each containing
150 samples. The first group is centered on the point (–2.2, 0), the
second group on (2.2, 0), and the third group on (0, 2.5), all with a
standard deviation of 1 for both coordinates. The data points from all
groups are combined into a single NumPy array, and their
corresponding labels are combined into another NumPy array.
Next, use Listing 12-11 to plot the dataset in order to visualize the
three groups.
--snip--
plt.scatter(gr0[:, 0], gr0[:, 1], marker="o", s=5, c="C0")
plt.scatter(gr1[:, 0], gr1[:, 1], marker="^", s=5, c="C1")

--- Strana 789 ---
plt.scatter(gr2[:, 0], gr2[:, 1], marker="s", s=5, c="C2")
--snip--
Listing 12-11: Plotting the dataset with three groups of data (by modifying Listing 12-2)
This code uses different markers to distinguish the three groups:
circles for gr0, triangles for gr1, and squares for gr2. Figure 12-5 shows
the resulting plot.
Figure 12-5: The data for the multiclass classification of three groups
The three groups of data points are clearly separated, but they have
some overlap, making the multiclass classification task nontrivial.
Implementing the Active Learning Process with Multiple Classes

--- Strana 790 ---
Now update the train_active_learning() function from Listing 12-4 to
allow for any number of classes, as shown in Listing 12-12.
def train_active_learning(x, y, budget, query):
    """Train multiclass classifier with active learning.."""
    annotated_idxs = [np.random.choice(np.where(y == i)[0]) 
                      for i in range(int(y.max()) + 1)]
    --snip--
Listing 12-12: The function to perform the active learning for the multiclass classification
(by modifying Listing 12-4)
This function initializes the annotated indices by selecting one
random data point from each class, ensuring that the initial training set
contains all classes. The function does so by iterating through each class
index from 0 to the maximum. For each index, the function uses
np.random.choice() to randomly pick one sample from the corresponding
class. Next, in the active learning cycle, the function trains the model via
the train_model() function (Listing 12-3) on gradually increasing
annotated datasets; this part is identical to the function in Listing 12-4.
You’ll also need to upgrade plot_model() from Listing 12-6 to plot
three classes, as shown in Listing 12-13.
def plot_model3(model, gr0, gr1, gr2, annotated_x, annotated_y):
    """Plot model decision boundary and annotated data with 3 classes."""
    plt.scatter(gr0[:, 0], gr0[:, 1], marker="o", s=0.5, c="C0")
    plt.scatter(gr1[:, 0], gr1[:, 1], marker="^", s=0.5, c="C1")
    plt.scatter(gr2[:, 0], gr2[:, 1], marker="s", s=0.5, c="C2")
    is0, is1, is2 = annotations == 0, annotations == 1, annotations == 2
    plt.scatter(annotated_x[is0, 0], annotated_x[is0, 1], 
                marker="o", s=50, c="C0", label="Selected Group 1")
    plt.scatter(annotated_x[is1, 0], annotated_x[is1, 1], 
                marker="^", s=50, c="C1", label="Selected Group 2")
    plt.scatter(annotated_x[is2, 0], annotated_x[is2, 1], 
                marker="s", s=50, c="C2", label="Selected Group 3")
 ➊ xx, yy = np.meshgrid(np.linspace(-5, 5, 1000), np.linspace(-3, 3, 1000))
 ➋ z = model.predict(np.c_[xx.ravel(), yy.ravel()])

--- Strana 791 ---
    z = z.reshape(xx.shape)
    plt.contour(xx, yy, z, levels=[0.5, 1.5], colors="black")
    plt.xlim(-5, 5)
    --snip--
Listing 12-13: The function for plotting the multiclass classification (by modifying Listing
12-6)
This function initializes the scatterplots for the three groups of data
points. Then it separately plots the selected data points for each group.
Afterward, the function calculates and plots the decision boundaries
by generating a mesh grid and using the model’s predictions to draw
contour lines separating the classes. To do so, the code first generates a
mesh grid covering the entire plot area ➊. The code then predicts the
class for each point in the mesh grid and reshapes the predicted classes
to match the shape of the mesh grid ➋. Finally, the function plots
contour lines that represent the decision boundaries between the classes.
The contour levels are set to 0.5 and 1.5, which effectively separates the
three classes by drawing lines where the predicted class probabilities are
equal.
Random Sampling
To see how the model performs with random sampling for three classes,
you can use the following:
accuracy_random, model_random, idxs_random = \
    train_active_learning(x, y, budget=30, query=query_random)
plot_model3(model_random, gr0, gr1, gr2, x[idxs_random], y[idxs_random])
This code uses the random sampling strategy implemented by
query_random() in Listing 12-5. In our run of this code, the resulting
accuracy is 0.91.
Figure 12-6 shows the decision boundary and annotated data points.

--- Strana 792 ---
Figure 12-6: The decision boundary (lines) and annotated data (large symbols) with random
sampling and three classes
The decision boundaries between the three classes are shown as
contour lines, and the annotated data points are highlighted as larger
symbols. Similar to the binary classification case shown in Figure 12-2,
the function mostly samples points from the center of the distributions.
This central sampling pattern indicates that with random sampling, the
model tends to select data points in densely populated areas of each
class, which aren’t the most informative for refining the decision
boundaries.
Uncertainty Sampling

--- Strana 793 ---
Now that we’ve established some baseline results with random
sampling, let’s see how uncertainty sampling performs with three
classes. As you’ve seen, this method selects the data points for which the
model has the most uncertain predictions, potentially providing more-
informative samples for training. Implement the active learning with
uncertainty sampling as shown here:
accuracy_uncertainty, model_uncertainty, idxs_uncertainty = \
    train_active_learning(x, y, budget=30, query=query_uncertainty)
plot_model3(model_uncertainty, gr0, gr1, gr2, 
            x[idxs_uncertainty], y[idxs_uncertainty])
This code uses the uncertainty sampling strategy implemented by the
query_uncertainty() function in Listing 12-7. Our run gave an accuracy of
0.951, indicating that uncertainty sampling leads to a better model
performance by focusing on the most informative samples, as we
anticipated. Figure 12-7 shows the corresponding decision boundary
and selected samples.

--- Strana 794 ---
Figure 12-7: The decision boundary (lines) and annotated data (large symbols) with
uncertainty sampling and three classes
Unlike random sampling, the points selected by uncertainty
sampling are primarily located near the decision boundaries between
the classes. This sampling strategy helps the model refine its decision
boundaries more effectively by learning from the points where the
model is least certain.
EXERCISES
12-1:  Implement the small margin sampling strategy to select
data points where the model is least certain by focusing on the

--- Strana 795 ---
smallest difference between the highest and second-highest class
probabilities. Small margin sampling effectively targets the most
uncertain samples, but it may sometimes focus too much on
outliers. Use this strategy to perform active learning, train the
model with the selected data points, and plot the decision
boundary along with the selected samples.
12-2:  Implement the large margin sampling strategy, which
focuses on selecting data points where the model is most confident
about its predictions. Large margin sampling helps solidify the
model’s understanding of confident regions but may miss out on
effectively refining the decision boundaries. Perform active
learning using this strategy, train the model with the selected data
points, and plot the decision boundary along with the selected
samples.
12-3:  Implement the entropy sampling strategy to select data
points with the highest uncertainty by measuring the entropy of
the predicted probabilities. Entropy sampling is advantageous for
capturing overall uncertainty in predictions but can be
computationally intensive. Use this strategy to perform active
learning, train the model with the selected data points, and plot
the decision boundary along with the selected samples.
Comparing Sampling Strategies
After implementing various sampling strategies, comparing their
performance is insightful. To do so, you can calculate the average
accuracy as a function of the number of annotations over multiple trials
for each sampling strategy, as shown in Listing 12-14.
trials = 100
--snip--
for _ in range(trials):
    accuracy_history_random, *_ = \
        train_active_learning(x, y, budget=30, query=query_random)
    --snip--

--- Strana 796 ---
    accuracy_history_uncertainty, *_ = \
        train_active_learning(x, y, budget=30, query=query_uncertainty)
    --snip--
Listing 12-14: Calculating the average accuracy for multiclass classification (by modifying
Listing 12-8)
The code performs 100 trials of active learning for each sampling
strategy and records the accuracy at each step. For each trial, the
function applies the random sampling strategy and the uncertainty
sampling strategy.
You can then plot the average accuracy as a function of the number
of annotations, using Listing 12-9. Figure 12-8 shows the resulting plot.
Figure 12-8: The average accuracy for multiclass classification

--- Strana 797 ---
The uncertainty sampling strategy achieves higher accuracy with
fewer annotated samples compared to random sampling. This highlights
the efficiency of the uncertainty sampling strategy in selecting the most
informative samples for annotation, thereby improving the model’s
performance more quickly than random sampling. The results
demonstrate that active learning strategies focusing on sample
informativeness can significantly enhance model training efficiency.
NOTE
Code Example 12-2, “Training a Three-Class Classifier with Active
Learning,” 
is 
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch12_AL folder and then ec12_2_active3. The
active3.ipynb notebook provides a complete code example that uses
active learning to classify points in a plane into three classes.
EXERCISE
12-4:  Compare the performance of the following active learning
strategies: random sampling, uncertainty sampling, small margin
sampling, large margin sampling, and entropy sampling.
Implement each strategy, perform active learning on a common
dataset, and plot the average accuracy as a function of the number
of annotated samples. Evaluate which strategy achieves the highest
accuracy with the fewest annotations and discuss the strengths and
weaknesses of each approach. Note that small margin sampling is
often more stable because it finds points close to a boundary
between two classes, not necessarily near the intersection of
multiple classes.

--- Strana 798 ---
Project 12A: Classifying MNIST Digits with Active
Learning
In this project, you’ll use active learning strategies to classify
handwritten digits from the MNIST dataset. You’ve already
encountered the MNIST data-set several times. In brief, it consists of
60,000 training images and 10,000 testing images. Each image is a
28×28–pixel grayscale representation of a handwritten digit from 0 to 9.
Unlike the previous examples in this chapter that employed a
logistic regression, you’ll use a convolutional neural network as the
classifier, similar to what you employed in Project 3A to classify malaria-
infected blood stains. Furthermore, you’ll compare active learning
strategies to determine which yields the best performance with the
fewest labeled samples—namely, random sampling, uncertainty
sampling, and an adversarial approach.
Training a Baseline Model
To appreciate the effectiveness of active learning, you’ll first calculate
the model’s accuracy when trained on the full dataset. To begin, load the
MNIST dataset and prepare the training and testing data loaders with
Listing 12-15.
import deeplay as dl
from torchvision import datasets, transforms
train_data = datasets.MNIST(root="data", train=True, download=True, 
                            transform=transforms.ToTensor())
test_data = datasets.MNIST(root="data", train=False, download=True, 
                           transform=transforms.ToTensor())
train_dataloader = dl.DataLoader(train_data, batch_size=128, shuffle=True)
test_dataloader = dl.DataLoader(test_data, batch_size=1024, shuffle=False)
Listing 12-15: Loading the MNIST digits

--- Strana 799 ---
This code loads the train and test MNIST datasets, then prepares
the corresponding data loaders.
Next, define the classifier neural network. This network consists of a
convolutional backbone followed by a simple multilayer perceptron
head for classification, as shown in Listing 12-16.
   import torch
   backbone = dl.ConvolutionalNeuralNetwork(1, [64] * 4, 128)
   backbone.blocks[1:].pool.configure(torch.nn.MaxPool2d, kernel_size=2)
➊ backbone.blocks[-1].append(dl.Layer(torch.nn.AdaptiveAvgPool2d, 
output_size=1))
➋ backbone.blocks[-1].append(dl.Layer(torch.nn.Flatten, output_size=1))
   head = dl.MultiLayerPerceptron(128, [], 10)
   classifier_template = dl.Sequential(backbone, head)
Listing 12-16: Defining the classifier neural network
This code initializes the backbone with one input channel to match the
grayscale MNIST images, four convolutional layers with 64 filters each,
and an output convolutional layer with 128 filters. Then the code adds
an adaptive averaging filter that transforms each output feature map
into a feature map with only 1 pixel ➊ and a flattening layer ➋. The
classification head is a multilayer perceptron that takes the 128-
dimensional output from the convolutional backbone and maps it onto
10 output classes. Finally, the code combines these components into a
sequential model, where the backbone extracts features from the input
images and the head performs the classification task. As usual, you can
use print(classifier_template) to see details of the model.
After defining the network architecture, compile the classifier and
train it on the entire dataset as a baseline, as shown in Listing 12-17.
from torchmetrics import Accuracy
classifier = dl.CategoricalClassifier(
    classifier_template.new(), optimizer=dl.Adam(lr=1e-3), num_classes=10, 

--- Strana 800 ---
    metrics=[Accuracy(task="multiclass", num_classes=10)],
).build()
trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=10)
trainer.fit(classifier, train_dataloader)
full_results = trainer.test(classifier, test_dataloader)
Listing 12-17: Defining, training, and testing the classifier with all data
This code builds the classifier with a categorical classification head,
an Adam optimizer, and accuracy as the evaluation metric, tailored for
classification tasks with 10 distinct classes, corresponding to the number
of MNIST digits. A Trainer object configured to run for 10 epochs
manages the training process. After training, the code evaluates the
model on the test set to determine its performance.
Printing the results with print(full_results[0]), you should observe a
test loss of around 0.03 and an accuracy of around 99 percent, indicating
that this model performs very well on the MNIST dataset when trained
on the full dataset. You can use this as a reference point for evaluating
the efficiency and effectiveness of various active learning strategies in
the subsequent sections.
Implementing Multiple Active Learning Strategies
Now that you’ve established this baseline accuracy, you’ll evaluate three
distinct active learning strategies by using the same model trained on
small subsets of the MNIST dataset: uniform random sampling, which
selects samples randomly from the unlabeled pool; uncertainty
sampling, which selects samples the model is least confident about based
on the smallest difference between the highest and second-highest
predicted class probabilities; and adversarial sampling, which uses an
adversarial approach to select the most informative samples.
To ensure the reliability and statistical significance of your findings,
you’ll repeat each experiment five times (you can change this number
depending on your availability of computational power). Afterward,
you’ll compare the performance of the models on the test set, focusing

--- Strana 801 ---
on the number of labeled samples required to achieve a specified level of
accuracy.
Implementing a Common Configuration for All Samplings
To ensure the same conditions for testing each active learning strategy,
configure the experiments with Listing 12-18.
trials, budget_per_iteration, max_budget = 5, 120, 1800
rounds = max_budget // budget_per_iteration - 1  # Number of rounds per trial
Listing 12-18: Configuring the general parameters
This code defines the key parameters for each experiment. The
number of trials is set to 5, ensuring statistical significance by repeating
each experiment multiple times. The budget_per_iteration is defined as 120
samples, specifying the number of new samples to annotate and add to
the training set in each round of active learning. This contrasts with the
previous examples, where only one annotation was added per iteration,
making this approach more time efficient by processing multiple
annotations at once. The code sets the maximum budget (max_budget) to
1800 samples, indicating the total number of samples available for
annotation during the entire active learning process. Finally, the code
calculates the number of rounds per trial by dividing the maximum
budget by the budget per iteration and subtracting 1 to account for the
random samples selected in the first iteration.
Next, define a reusable active learning loop, as shown in Listing 12-
19. You’ll use this loop to test the three strategies.
def al_loop(strategy, epochs):
    """Perform active learning loop."""
    trainer = dl.Trainer(max_epochs=epochs, enable_checkpointing=False,
                         enable_model_summary=False)
    trainer.fit(strategy)
    test_results = trainer.test(strategy, test_dataloader)
    accuracy = test_results[0]["testMulticlassAccuracy"]

--- Strana 802 ---
    strategy.query_and_update(budget_per_iteration)
    strategy.reset_model()  # Reset the model to the initial state
    return accuracy
Listing 12-19: The function to perform an active training loop
First, this function trains the model on the current training set.
Next, the function evaluates the model on the test set, calculating the
accuracy to return. Then the function uses the active learning strategy to
select the next samples. Finally, the function resets the model to the
starting state so that each round of active learning starts training from
scratch.
If the model is computationally expensive, you can omit the fourth
step and continue training from the previous model state. Continuing
from the previous state may result in the model becoming more
specialized to the earlier samples, potentially leading to overfitting and
less generalization. On the other hand, resetting the model to the
starting state allows each round of active learning to begin with a fresh
perspective, ensuring that the model remains adaptable to new data.
Uniform Random Sampling
As your first query strategy, you’ll execute uniform random sampling
with Listing 12-20.
import deeplay.activelearning as al
import numpy as np
uniform_acc = np.empty((trials, rounds))
for t in range(trials):
    uniform_train_pool = al.ActiveLearningDataset(train_data)
 ➊ uniform_train_pool.annotate_random(budget_per_iteration)
 ➋ uniform_strategy = al.UniformStrategy(
        classifier_template.new(), train_pool=uniform_train_pool, 
        test=test_data, batch_size=128,
        test_metrics=[Accuracy(task="multiclass", num_classes=10)],
    ).build()

--- Strana 803 ---
    for r in range(rounds):
        print(f"Trial {t + 1}/{trials} Round {r + 1}/{rounds}", flush=True)
        uniform_acc[t, r] = al_loop(uniform_strategy, epochs=10)
Listing 12-20: Training with uniform random sampling
This code first wraps the training data with an ActiveLearningDataset
object. This object keeps track of which samples are annotated and
unannotated. It also provides a method to query the next samples to
annotate. At the start, the object assumes that all data is unannotated.
Then the code initializes the training dataset by randomly annotating a
small subset of the data ➊. This is required for all three active learning
strategies you’ll test.
Next, the code creates a UniformStrategy object, which contains the
query strategy ➋. This object takes a model as input, together with the
training data pool, the test set, a batch size, and a list of metrics. Finally,
the active learning loop is run for rounds iterations. For each round,
training lasts 10 epochs. The resulting accuracies are saved for each trial
and round in the uniform_acc NumPy array, reaching an accuracy of
around 92 percent.
Uncertainty Sampling
Once you’ve performed random sampling, you can similarly test
uncertainty sampling with Listing 12-21.
--snip--
uncertainty_acc = np.empty((trials, rounds))
for t in range(trials):
    uncertainty_train_pool = al.ActiveLearningDataset(train_data)
    uncertainty_train_pool.annotate_random(budget_per_iteration)
 ➊ uncertainty_strategy = al.UncertaintyStrategy(
        classifier_template.new(), train_pool=uncertainty_train_pool,
        criterion=al.Margin(), test=test_data, batch_size=128,
        test_metrics=[Accuracy(task="multiclass", num_classes=10)],
    ).build()
    for r in range(rounds):

--- Strana 804 ---
        print(f"Trial {t + 1}/{trials} Round {r + 1}/{rounds}", flush=True)
        uncertainty_acc[t, r] = al_loop(uncertainty_strategy, epochs=10)
Listing 12-21: Training with uncertainty sampling (by modifying Listing 12-20)
This code implements the uncertainty sampling strategy. For each
trial, the training data is wrapped with an ActiveLearningDataset object,
similarly to the random sampling strategy.
Then the code defines the uncertainty strategy by using the
Uncertainty Strategy class ➊, which includes a model, the training data
pool, the test set, a batch size, and a list of metrics. The criterion
parameter is set to al.Margin(), specifying that the model should measure
uncertainty by the smallest margin between the two highest class
probabilities.
The code iterates through the active learning loop for the specified
number of rounds, training the model for 10 epochs each round. The
resulting accuracies are stored in the uncertainty_acc array.
Uncertainty sampling does indeed work better than random
sampling, reaching an accuracy of around 95 percent. However, the gap
between the baseline accuracy of 99 percent and the accuracy achieved
through uncertainty sampling reveals that neural networks are generally
poor at estimating their own uncertainty. More-advanced methods try
to mitigate this by using alternate means of estimating uncertainty, such
as ensemble methods, Monte Carlo dropout, or estimating the loss of
the model.
Another issue with uncertainty sampling is that it can be biased
toward outliers or data points with incomplete information. While these
data points are often the most uncertain, they are not necessarily the
most informative. These points are often highly uncertain because the
model struggles to predict their labels, but labeling them may not
improve the model’s understanding of the broader data distribution.
Outliers and noisy data can mislead the model, focusing its learning on
rare or irrelevant cases rather than general patterns.
You can mitigate this issue by using alternative methods to identify
informative samples. These methods include selecting data points based
on how much they are expected to change the model (expected model

--- Strana 805 ---
change), how different they are from one another (diversity), or how
well they represent the overall data distribution (representativeness). In
fact, a combination of these measures can perform better than any
single measure.
Adversarial Sampling
To see this in action, you’ll explore a combination of uncertainty
sampling and diversity sampling by using an adversarial approach; you’ll
adversarially train a discriminator to distinguish between the
embeddings of annotated and unannotated images.
This approach has several advantages because it enhances the
uncertainty sampling process by also considering the diversity of the
data points. First, the discriminator’s choices can indicate the samples’
diversity. If the discriminator predicts that an unlabeled image is
labeled, that means that the image is similar to already labeled images
and might not be very informative. Second, by adversarially training the
backbone to fool the discriminator, you’re enforcing a structure to the
embeddings by using all the data in the dataset. The model learns to
organize the data in a way that captures the relationships between
different samples, not just focusing on the uncertain ones. This added
structure helps the model generalize better, especially when working
with small training sets, because it ensures that the model doesn’t just
memorize individual examples but understands the underlying patterns
in the data.
You can implement the adversarial sampling strategy by training a
discriminator to identify which samples are most diverse and
informative. You’ll do this with Listing 12-22.
--snip--
adversarial_acc = np.empty((trials, rounds))
for t in range(trials):
 ➊ discriminator = dl.MultiLayerPerceptron(128, [128, 128], 1,
                                            out_activation=torch.nn.Sigmoid())
 ➋ discriminator.initialize(dl.initializers.Kaiming())

--- Strana 806 ---
    adversarial_train_pool = al.ActiveLearningDataset(train_data)
    adversarial_train_pool.annotate_random(budget_per_iteration)
 ➌ adversarial_strategy = al.AdversarialStrategy(
        backbone=backbone.new(), classification_head=head.new(),
        discriminator_head=discriminator.new(),
        train_pool=adversarial_train_pool, criterion=al.Margin(),
        test=test_data, batch_size=128,
        test_metrics=[Accuracy(task="multiclass", num_classes=10)],
    ).build()
    for r in range(rounds):
     ➍ adversarial_acc[t, r] = al_loop(adversarial_strategy, epochs=5)
Listing 12-22: Training with adversarial sampling (by modifying Listing 12-21)
This code snippet implements the adversarial sampling strategy. The
discriminator is defined as a multilayer perceptron with an input size of
128 to match the output from the backbone, two hidden layers with 128
units each, and an output size of 1 ➊. The output activation function is
set to sigmoid, appropriate for binary classification tasks such as
distinguishing between annotated and unannotated samples.
The code then calls the initialize() method on the discriminator,
using the Kaiming initializer ➋. This initializer is well suited for layers
with ReLU activations and helps set up the network weights properly.
The code then initializes the AdversarialStrategy class to create the
adversarial strategy object ➌. This class takes the backbone,
classification head, and discriminator head as input, along with the
training data pool, criterion, batch size, and test metrics. The code uses
the backbone.new() and head.new() methods to create new instances of the
backbone and classification head, ensuring that each round starts with a
fresh model.
The active learning loop runs for the specified number of rounds,
each training the model for five epochs ➍. This is fewer epochs
compared to the previous strategies because each epoch processes the
entire dataset, including both annotated and unannotated data.
Furthermore, annotated data points are seen multiple times per epoch
since each batch contains an equal number of annotated and

--- Strana 807 ---
unannotated samples, with the smaller set repeated to match the size of
the larger one.
This adversarial sampling approach combines uncertainty and
diversity by using a discriminator to select informative samples.
Specifically, the discriminator primarily accounts for diversity, while the
uncertainty is separately measured by the criterion=al.Margin() function.
These two measures—uncertainty and diversity—are then combined
into a single, weighted informativeness score. This combination helps
improve the model’s generalization ability on small training sets. The
resulting accuracies are stored in the adversarial_acc array.
Comparing the Performance of the Active Learning Strategies
After running the experiments with all three strategies, you can compare
their performance in terms of test accuracy and the number of samples
required to reach a certain accuracy level. This comparison will
highlight the effectiveness of each active learning strategy and provide
insights into their strengths and weaknesses.
You can plot the accuracy as a function of the number of annotated
images, using Listing 12-23.
   import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
➊ x = np.arange(budget_per_iteration, max_budget, budget_per_iteration)
   plt.plot(x, np.median(uniform_acc, 0), label="Uniform", linestyle="--")
   plt.plot(x, np.median(uncertainty_acc, 0), label="Uncertainty", 
linestyle="-.")
   plt.plot(x, np.median(adversarial_acc, 0), label="Adversarial", linestyle="-")
   plt.axhline(full_results[0]["testMulticlassAccuracy_epoch"], 
               label="Full Test Accuracy", color="black", linestyle=":")   
   plt.xlabel("Number of Annotated Samples")
   plt.ylabel("Test Accuracy")
   plt.ylim([0, 1])
   plt.legend()
   plt.show()
Listing 12-23: Plotting the accuracy for the three strategies

--- Strana 808 ---
This code defines the x-axis as the range of annotated samples ➊;
plots the median accuracy across trials for the uniform sampling
strategy, the uncertainty sampling strategy, and the adversarial sampling
strategy; and adds a horizontal line representing the accuracy of the
model trained on the full dataset, providing a benchmark for
comparison.
Figure 12-9 shows the resulting plot.
Figure 12-9: Test accuracy as a function of annotated samples
You can observe how the accuracy of each strategy changes as more
samples are annotated. Each line represents the median accuracy across
multiple trials for each strategy.

--- Strana 809 ---
The uniform sampling (dashed line) strategy randomly selects
samples from the dataset. This approach shows a steady increase in
accuracy as more samples are annotated, but it generally requires more
samples to reach higher accuracy levels as compared to the other
strategies.
The uncertainty sampling (dash-dot line) strategy selects samples
about which the model is least certain. After a slow start, this approach
shows a faster improvement in accuracy with fewer samples, as
compared to uniform sampling, demonstrating the efficiency of
selecting informative samples.
The adversarial sampling (solid line) strategy combines uncertainty
and diversity by training a discriminator to identify the most
informative samples. This strategy reaches high accuracy levels more
quickly and consistently than the other two strategies, indicating its
effectiveness in selecting diverse and informative samples.
The dotted horizontal line represents the accuracy of the model
trained on the full dataset. Adversarial sampling achieves a performance
similar to this benchmark while using only 3 percent of the training
data.
NOTE
Code Example 12-A, “Training an MNIST Digits Classifier with
Active 
Learning,” 
is 
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch12_AL folder and then ec12_A_mnist_al. The
mnist_al.ipynb notebook provides a complete code example that uses
active learning to train a neural network capable of classifying the
MNIST digits.
Summary
In this chapter, you explored active learning and its application to both
binary and multiclass classification problems. Active learning optimizes
the labeling process by selectively choosing the most informative

--- Strana 810 ---
samples, reducing the labeling effort while maintaining high model
performance. To understand the effectiveness of active learning in
binary and multiclass classification, you started by creating simple
datasets; you then applied logistic regression models to illustrate the
active learning process, using random sampling and uncertainty
sampling.
The chapter culminated in a comprehensive project using the
MNIST dataset. You used a convolutional neural network and
compared the effectiveness of random, uncertainty, and adversarial
query strategies. Uncertainty and adversarial sampling strategies
significantly outperformed random sampling, achieving high accuracy
with fewer annotated samples. The adversarial strategy in particular
demonstrated superior efficiency by combining criteria of uncertainty
and diversity to select the most informative samples.
As you continue to apply active learning techniques, you’ll notice
that they not only can enhance the efficiency of the learning process by
reducing labeling costs while maintaining or even improving model
performance, but also can provide a powerful tool for continuously
adapting models to new data and evolving patterns. In fact, although
this chapter focused primarily on demonstrating active learning’s
efficiency in initial training, these techniques are particularly valuable in
real-world scenarios with data distributions that may shift over time. By
iteratively selecting and labeling the most relevant samples from new or
evolving datasets, active learning enables models to remain accurate and
up to date without requiring a complete retraining on a vast labeled
dataset. This adaptability ensures that your models continue to perform
well even as the underlying data changes, making active learning a
crucial strategy for maintaining model relevance and robustness in
dynamic environments.
Seminal Works and Further Reading
The concept of active learning was proposed in 1994 by David Cohn et
al. in “Improving Generalization with Active Learning,” published in
Machine Learning (volume 15, pages 201–221). The authors introduced

--- Strana 811 ---
the idea of query selection in the context of neural networks, focusing
on how to actively choose the most informative data points to improve
model generalization. Their approach centered on uncertainty
sampling, where the model queries instances that it’s least certain about,
thereby maximizing the learning potential from limited labeled data.
CHALLENGE PROJECTS
12-1: Active learning for text classification  Extend the active
learning framework to a text-classification problem. Use a dataset
such as the 20 Newsgroups dataset, which consists of news articles
categorized into 20 topics. Implement a text classifier by using a
neural network and compare active learning strategies. Evaluate
the performance in terms of classification accuracy and the
number of labeled samples required to achieve a certain accuracy
level.
12-2: Advanced text translation with transformer decoders 
Implement a transformer decoder model to perform text
translation on a public dataset, such as the WMT14 English-
German dataset. Preprocess the dataset and train your model to
translate sentences from English to German. Evaluate your
model’s performance by using BLEU scores, and compare your
results with those from state-of-the-art models. Additionally,
experiment with various active learning strategies to iteratively
select the most challenging sentences for labeling, aiming to
improve the model’s translation accuracy with fewer labeled
examples.
12-3: Automated image captioning  Create a neural network
model that generates captions for images—for example, by
classifying the keywords associated with the objects present in the
image. Combining image analysis with NLP, this challenge
involves not only recognizing objects in an image but also

--- Strana 812 ---
understanding the context and relationships to generate coherent
and accurate descriptions.
12-4: Active learning with vision transformers  Revisit the
ViT classification problem introduced in Chapter 8, where
achieving high accuracy on the CIFAR-10 dataset required a large
number of labeled samples, even with techniques like CutMix.
Implement an active learning framework to reduce the number of
labeled samples required to achieve high accuracy with ViT.
Experiment with active learning strategies, such as uncertainty
sampling and adversarial sampling, to identify the most
informative images for labeling. Compare the performance of
these strategies and evaluate how effectively they reduce the
labeling cost while maintaining or improving model accuracy.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 813 ---
13
MASTERING DECISION-MAKING WITH
DEEP REINFORCEMENT LEARNING
In this chapter, you’ll discover reinforcement learning, a fascinating and
powerful branch of machine learning focused on training computers to
make decisions and to control systems as agents.
Reinforcement learning has been instrumental in solving complex
problems across various domains. For instance, it’s used in robotics to
enable autonomous navigation, allowing robots to learn how to walk or fly
by optimizing their movements through trial and error. In finance,
reinforcement learning algorithms are used to manage investment
portfolios by adapting to market changes and maximizing returns. In
gaming, reinforcement learning has powered agents like AlphaGo, which
famously defeated human world champions in the ancient game of Go—a
milestone in artificial intelligence.
The history of reinforcement learning dates back to the 1950s and
1960s, with early work by researchers such as Richard Bellman, who
developed the Bellman equation, a foundational concept in reinforcement
learning. Over the decades, reinforcement learning has evolved from
simple rule-based systems to sophisticated algorithms capable of tackling
high-dimensional, complex problems. In reinforcement learning, agents
learn through interactions with their environment, shaping their behavior

--- Strana 814 ---
to optimize outcomes based on rewards and penalties. This approach is
exceptionally well suited for controlling complex systems, especially when
predefined rules are inadequate.
You’ll start by exploring the foundational concepts of reinforcement
learning, including algorithms and strategies that enable agents to learn
and adapt, such as Q-learning. You’ll apply these principles to play a
simplified version of Tetris so that you can experience a clear and engaging
demonstration of their effectiveness in problem-solving and decision-
making tasks.
Moving beyond traditional reinforcement learning, you’ll then learn
about deep reinforcement learning. This advanced variant integrates neural
networks in the control cycle, enabling agents to handle high-dimensional
input spaces and more-complex decision-making scenarios.
By the end of this chapter, you’ll understand both classical and deep
reinforcement learning. This knowledge will enable you to address
challenges that require you to have adaptive, intelligent control,
particularly in high-dimensional and complex environments.
Understanding Reinforcement Learning and Q-
Learning
In reinforcement learning, an agent learns to make decisions by interacting
with an environment through a process of trial and error. The agent’s
objective is to maximize its cumulative reward over time. In this machine
learning paradigm, the agent observes the state of the environment,
decides which actions to take, receives rewards or penalties as a
consequence of its actions, and adjusts its strategy to maximize its reward
in the future. In short, reinforcement learning is concerned with decision-
making under uncertainty, learning through interaction, and determining
the optimal behavior in a given context.
The central elements in reinforcement learning are the agent, which is
the decision-maker and learner, and the environment, which encompasses
everything external to the agent that the agent interacts with. The agent
perceives the state, a representation of the current situation or condition of
the environment, and takes an action, a choice that impacts the state of the

--- Strana 815 ---
environment. Following the action, the agent receives a reward, which is
positive or negative (penalty) feedback from the environment in response
to the action taken. The agent’s behavior is guided by a policy, a strategy
for mapping states to actions, determining its actions based on the current
state. Additionally, the agent uses a value function to estimate the expected
return (cumulative future rewards) of being in a given state or performing
a specific action in a given state. The agent’s ultimate goal is to learn a
policy that maximizes the total expected reward over time.
Q-learning is a type of reinforcement learning: The agent learns an
action-value function known as the Q-function. This function estimates the
expected total reward of taking each possible action in a given state,
allowing the agent to choose the optimal policy by selecting the action
with the highest expected reward.
The action-value function Q(s, a) represents the expected utility of
taking action a in state s. Q-learning aims to determine the function Q
that satisfies the Bellman equation:
Here, R(s, a) denotes the immediate reward received for taking action a
while in state s, after which the situation transitions to state s′. The
expression maxa′ Q(s′, a′) quantifies the maximum potential value attainable
in this subsequent state s′. Including this expression ensures that the
agent’s decisions optimize cumulative rewards over time, considering both
immediate and future gains.
The γ value is the discount factor, which balances the importance of
immediate versus future rewards. It typically ranges from 0 to 1. A higher
γ increases the value of future rewards, leading the agent to prioritize
long-term outcomes, while a lower γ favors immediate rewards.
At its core, the Q-learning algorithm iteratively approximates the Q(s,
a) function described by the Bellman equation through experience. The
algorithm achieves this by executing the Q-learning update rule:
Q (s, a) =
immediate reward
+ γ
future reward
   (13.1)
R (s, a)
max
a′  Q (s′, a′)

--- Strana 816 ---
Here, 
~Q (s, a) is the agent’s current estimate for the true Q(s, a), and α is
the learning rate. The term R (s, a) + γ maxa′ 
~Q (s′, a′) estimates the
optimal future reward. The difference between this estimate and the
current reward 
~Q (s, a), scaled by α, determines the magnitude of the
update. During this iterative updating process, the agent refines its policy,
typically using a greedy policy, to select the action with the highest Q-value
in the current state based on the current knowledge of the agent captured
by 
~Q (s, a). These updates enable the agent to converge on an optimal
policy that balances immediate and future rewards, guiding decision-
making to achieve the best outcomes over time.
Crucially, Q-learning is a model-free reinforcement learning algorithm
effective in environments with discrete, finite states and actions. Its model-
free nature means that it doesn’t require prior knowledge of the
environment’s dynamics. Furthermore, the versatility of Q-learning makes
it suitable for both deterministic and stochastic environments.
In many practical applications, Q-learning performs well in
environments with relatively small state-action spaces. For instance, in a
simple game like tic-tac-toe, the state space consists of 39 = 19,683
possible states, as each of the nine positions on the board can be empty,
filled with an X, or filled with an O (note that some of these states are
never reached if playing according to the rules of the game). This small
state space makes it feasible to maintain and update a Q-table that
effectively covers the entire state-action space, allowing the agent to learn
optimal policies efficiently.
However, when applied to more-complex environments with vast state
spaces, the limitations of Q-learning become evident. The number of
possible states can reach astronomical figures, far beyond the capabilities
of traditional Q-learning to handle. For example, a grid-based game with a
~Q (s, a) ←
~Q (s, a) + α
R (s, a) + γ max
a′
~Q (s′, a′)
estimated optimal  reward
−
~Q (s, a)
current reward
    (13

--- Strana 817 ---
large board and multiple possible tile placements can lead to a
combinatorial explosion of states.
Maintaining and updating a Q-table under these conditions would
require an immense amount of memory and countless training iterations
to explore even a fraction of the state-action space effectively. As you’ll see
later in the chapter, these challenges require more-advanced approaches,
such as deep Q-learning, which can generalize across large state spaces by
using neural networks.
EXERCISES
13-1:  Implement a Q-learning agent for tic-tac-toe. Recall how
you play the game and the strategies you use to win or avoid losing.
Most people develop optimal strategies when first learning tic-tac-
toe, such as taking the center square, creating forks (two potential
winning moves), and blocking your opponent’s winning moves. Use
these insights to create a Q-learning agent capable of playing the
game:
1. Reflect on your winning strategies: List the key strategies you
use in tic-tac-toe.
2. Define a state representation: Propose a way to represent the
game states that captures these strategies effectively but keeps
the state space manageable. Consider simplifying the state
space by focusing on critical patterns or board positions.
3. Design a Q-table: Using your state representation, create a
simplified Q-table that maps states to actions, incorporating
the strategies you’ve identified.
4. Implement the Q-learning agent: Code a Q-learning agent by
using your Q-table structure. Ensure that the agent updates its
Q-values based on the rewards from winning, drawing, or
losing.

--- Strana 818 ---
5. Train and evaluate: Train the agent over multiple games
against a random player. Observe how the agent’s performance
improves over time and how effectively it learns to apply your
strategies.
13-2:  Estimate the total number of possible game states in Connect
Four, a game played on a seven-column by six-row grid. Discuss how
this larger state space affects the feasibility of using traditional Q-
learning with a Q-table. Explain why more-advanced methods like
deep Q-learning are necessary for such complex environments.
A key challenge in reinforcement learning is balancing exploration, or
trying new actions to discover their effects, and exploitation, or using
known information to maximize rewards.
To this end, researchers have recently developed curiosity-driven
exploration, in which agents have an intrinsic motivation to investigate
novel or less understood areas of the environment. This approach uses an
intrinsic reward signal based on the prediction error or uncertainty of the
agent’s model. Essentially, the agent experiences a form of “boredom”
when encountering predictable rewards, while it finds unexpected rewards
or penalties more intriguing and worth exploring.
Curiosity-driven exploration is particularly effective in environments
with sparse or misleading external rewards, since it promotes
comprehensive learning and effective strategy development. By
integrating curiosity, agents achieve a more efficient balance between
exploration and exploitation, leading to faster learning and improved
performance. In the following sections, you’ll see how this concept can
significantly shape an algorithm’s optimization procedure.
Implementing Tetris
A timeless and iconic video game, Tetris was created in 1984 by software
engineer Alexey Pajitnov. It revolutionized the gaming industry with its
simple yet addictive gameplay.
Tetris features a random sequence of “Tetriminos,” geometric shapes
composed of four square blocks each that descend from the top of the

--- Strana 819 ---
playing field. The player must strategically rotate, move, and drop these
pieces to create horizontal lines without gaps. When a player forms such a
line, it disappears, and the player earns points. The player loses when the
pieces pile up high enough to reach the top of the game board before the
player can make them disappear. As the game progresses, the Tetriminos
fall more quickly, increasing the challenge.
In this section, you’ll implement a simplified version of Tetris that you
can play yourself.
Constructing a Simplified Tetris
The simplified version of Tetris you’ll implement captures the
fundamental mechanics of the original game, such as tile placement,
rotation, dropping, line clearing, and scoring. You’ll implement it step-by-
step in the Tetris class.
Tiles
Instead of traditional Tetriminos, you’ll use a set of simplified tiles
consisting of two, three, or four square blocks. Figure 13-1 shows these
tiles.
Figure 13-1: The tiles of the simplified Tetris game
You can implement these tiles with Listing 13-1.
class Tetris:
    """Simplified Tetris."""
 
    TILES = [
        [
            [[0, 2]],  # Tile 0, orientation 0
            [[0, 1], [0, 1]],  # Tile 0, orientation 1

--- Strana 820 ---
        ],
        [
            [[1, 2], [0, 1]],  # Tile 1, orientation 0
            [[0, 1], [1, 2]],  # Tile 1, orientation 1
        ],
        [
            [[0, 2], [0, 1]],  # Tile 2, orientation 0
            [[0, 2], [1, 2]],  # Tile 2, orientation 1
            [[1, 2], [0, 2]],  # Tile 2, orientation 2
            [[0, 1], [0, 2]],  # Tile 2, orientation 3
        ],
        [
            [[0, 2], [0, 2]],  # Tile 3, orientation 0
        ],
    ]
Listing 13-1: The class implementing Tetris with a simplified set of tiles
This code builds the TILES array within the Tetris class. This array
represents the types of tiles and their respective orientations. Each tile in
the TILES array is a list of orientations. An orientation is itself a list of pairs,
in which each pair specifies the blocks occupied by the tile in that pair’s
corresponding column. The pair values represent the start (inclusive) and
end (exclusive) of the occupied blocks. For instance, the pair [0, 2] means
that the blocks occupy positions 0 and 1 in that column, while [1, 2]
means that the block occupies only position 1 in that column.
The tiles are simplified versions of the traditional Tetriminos:
Tile 0 has two linear orientations: a vertical line of two blocks and a
horizontal line of two blocks.
Tile 1 has two diagonal orientations: top left to bottom right, and
bottom left to top right.
Tile 2 has four L-shaped orientations, each representing a different
rotation.
Tile 3 is a simple 2×2 square.
Game Board

--- Strana 821 ---
After you’ve built your tiles, you can add the game board to the Tetris
class, as shown in Listing 13-2.
import numpy as np
class Tetris:
    --snip--
    UNDEFINED = -1
 
    def __init__(self, rows, cols):
        """Initialize Tetris."""
        self.rows, self.cols = rows, cols
        self.restart()
     
    def restart(self):
        """Restart the game."""
     ➊ self.board = np.full((self.rows, self.cols), Tetris.UNDEFINED)
Listing 13-2: Adding the game board to the Tetris class (by modifying Listing 13-1)
This code expands the Tetris class by introducing the game board, a
crucial component of the Tetris game. The game board is represented as a
2D NumPy array, with the dimensions specified by rows and cols, defined
when initializing the class. The code also sets the constant UNDEFINED to -1,
to represent empty cells on the board. When the game starts, the restart()
method uses this value to initialize the game board to an empty state ➊.
This method also provides a convenient way to reset the game, making it
easy to start a new game after a game ends.
Gameplay Loop
During gameplay, the player encounters one descending tile at a time. The
player can move the tile horizontally, rotate it to change its orientation,
and drop it to the bottom of the board. The objective is to place the tiles
to make complete horizontal lines running across the board without gaps.
When a line is completed, it disappears from the board, and the player
earns points. You can implement these functionalities in the Tetris class by
making the additions shown in Listing 13-3.

--- Strana 822 ---
import numpy as np
import random
class Tetris:
    --snip--
    def restart(self):
        --snip--
        self.current_tile = Tetris.UNDEFINED
        self.tile_x = Tetris.UNDEFINED
        self.tile_y = Tetris.UNDEFINED
        self.tile_orientation = Tetris.UNDEFINED
             
        self.next_tile()
    def next_tile(self):
        """Get the next tile."""
        self.current_tile = random.randint(0, len(Tetris.TILES) - 1)
        self.tile_x = self.cols // 2
        self.tile_y = self.rows
        self.tile_orientation = 0
 
    def move_left(self):
        """Move current tile to the left."""
        if self.tile_x - 1 >= 0:
            self.tile_x -= 1
            return True
        else:
            return False
 
    def move_right(self):
        """Move current tile to the right."""
        tilewidth = len(Tetris.TILES[self.current_tile][self.tile_orientation])
        if self.tile_x + 1 <= self.cols - tilewidth:
            self.tile_x += 1
            return True
        else:
            return False
 
    def rotate(self):
        """Rotate current tile."""

--- Strana 823 ---
        new_orientation = ((self.tile_orientation + 1) 
                           % len(Tetris.TILES[self.current_tile]))
        tilewidth = len(Tetris.TILES[self.current_tile][new_orientation])
        if self.tile_x <= self.cols - tilewidth:
            self.tile_orientation = new_orientation
            return True
        else:
            return False
     
    def drop(self):
        """Drop current tile and update game board."""
        tile = Tetris.TILES[self.current_tile][self.tile_orientation]
     
        # Find first location where the tile collides with occupied locations
        self.tile_y = 0
        for tile_column in range(len(tile)):
            # Tile final y position for this tile column 
            # if no other columns are taken into account.
            tile_y = -1
            for y in range(self.rows - 1, -1, -1):
                if self.board[y, self.tile_x + tile_column] > 0:
                    tile_y = y + 1 - tile[tile_column][0]
                    break
            # Update tile y position
            if tile_y > self.tile_y:
                self.tile_y = tile_y
     ➊ # Change board entries at the newly placed tile to occupied
        for tile_column in range(len(tile)):
            self.board[self.tile_y + tile[tile_column][0]
                       :self.tile_y + tile[tile_column][1], 
                       tile_column + self.tile_x] = 1
     ➋ # Remove full lines
        removed_lines = 0
        for y in range(self.rows - 1, -1, -1):
            if np.sum(self.board[y, :]) == self.cols:
                removed_lines += 1
                for y1 in range(y, self.rows - 1):

--- Strana 824 ---
                    self.board[y1, :] = self.board[y1 + 1, :]
                self.board[self.rows - 1, :] = Tetris.UNDEFINED
     
        self.next_tile()
Listing 13-3: Adding the gameplay loop to the Tetris class (by modifying Listing 13-2)
This code creates the methods that control the movement of the
current tile during the gameplay loop, including initialization, lateral
movement, rotation, dropping, and updating the game board based on the
tile’s final position. In addition to the board, the restart() method now sets
the values of the current tile (current_tile), its lateral position (tile_x), its
vertical position (tile_y), and its orientation (tile_orientation) to UNDEFINED.
The next_tile() method randomly selects the next tile and positions it
at the center of the top of the board.
The player can move the current tile left with the move_left() method,
move it right with move_right(), or rotate it with rotate(). When the player’s
action is legal (the piece remains within the game-board boundaries and
doesn’t overlap with already occupied spaces), these methods adjust the
position or orientation of the tile within the game board’s bounds and
return True. Otherwise, they don’t change the position or orientation of the
tile and return False.
The drop() method moves the tile down until it collides with another
tile or the bottom of the board ➊. This method also clears any completed
lines, adjusting the game board accordingly ➋. Finally, drop() calls the
next_tile() method to choose the next tile.
Game Progression and End Condition
The game progresses by introducing a new tile each time the previous one
is placed. Over time, the player either achieves victory by placing the
maximum number of tiles or faces defeat when the board fills up to the
top.
In this version of the game, the code uses seeded randomness to give
the player the option to fix the sequence of new tiles. This predictable
sequence is particularly useful for testing and comparing multiple
strategies under identical conditions. You can implement these game
dynamics with the modifications shown in Listing 13-4.

--- Strana 825 ---
--snip--
class Tetris:
    --snip--
    def __init__(self, rows, cols, max_tiles, random_seed):
        """Initialize Tetris."""
        self.rows, self.cols = rows, cols
        self.max_tiles = max_tiles
        self.random_seed = random_seed
     
        self.restart()
     
    def restart(self):
        --snip--
     ➊ self.gameover = False
        self.tile_count = 0
        # Create predefined tile sequence
        rand_state = random.getstate()
        random.seed(self.random_seed)
        self.tile_sequence = [random.randint(0, len(Tetris.TILES) - 1) 
                              for _ in range(self.max_tiles)]
        random.setstate(rand_state)
     
        self.next_tile()
     
    def next_tile(self):
        """Get the next tile."""
        if self.tile_count < self.max_tiles:
            if self.random_seed is not None:
             ➋ self.current_tile = self.tile_sequence[self.tile_count]
            else:
             ➌ self.current_tile = random.randint(0, len(Tetris.TILES) - 1)
            self.tile_x = self.cols // 2
            self.tile_y = self.rows
            self.tile_orientation = 0
         
            self.tile_count += 1
        else:

--- Strana 826 ---
         ➍ self.gameover = True
 
    --snip--
 
    def drop(self):
        --snip--
        if self.tile_y + np.max(tile) > self.rows:
         ➎ self.gameover = True
        else:
            # Change board entries at the newly placed tile to occupied
            --snip--
     
        self.next_tile()
Listing 13-4: Adding the game progression and end condition to the Tetris class (by modifying
Listing 13-3)
This code extends the Tetris class to manage game progression by
introducing a mechanism to track the number of tiles placed, handle the
game’s end conditions, and optionally use a seeded random sequence for
tile generation, which is useful for consistent testing and strategy
comparison.
This revised Tetris class adds a gameover flag ➊, which becomes True
under two circumstances: either when the player places the maximum
number of tiles (max_tiles) and wins ➍, or when the player fills up the
board and loses ➎. Whenever the game restarts, the gameover flag is reset to
False ➊, and the tile count is reset to 0.
Importantly, the updated code also adds the random_seed parameter to
the class to control the tile sequence. To this end, the restart() method sets
up a predefined tile sequence. If random_seed is set to a number, the next tile
is taken from this predefined sequence ➋. If random_seed is set to None, the
next tile is selected at random, as in the previous version of the class ➌.
Scoring System
To increase the player’s engagement and provide a measurable
performance indicator, you can introduce a scoring system. Besides
motivating human players, this scoring system enables reinforcement
learning, which requires quantifiable rewards or penalties to train agents.

--- Strana 827 ---
As shown in Listing 13-5, the addition of this scoring mechanism allows
players and agents to gauge their performance and adapt their strategies
accordingly.
--snip--
class Tetris:
    --snip--
    def restart(self):
        --snip--
        self.reward = 0
     
        self.next_tile() 
    --snip--
     
    def drop(self):
        --snip--
        if self.tile_y + np.max(tile) > self.rows:
            self.gameover = True
         ➊ dreward = -100
        else:
            --snip--
         ➋ dreward = 10 ** (removed_lines - 1) if removed_lines > 0 else 0
        self.next_tile()
        self.reward += dreward
        return dreward
Listing 13-5: Adding the scoring system to the Tetris class (by modifying Listing 13-4)
This code modifies the Tetris class to include a scoring system. At the
beginning of each game session, the reward variable is set to zero. The player
receives a reward for clearing lines ➋; this reward increases exponentially
with the number of lines cleared at once, with a reward of 1 for a single
line and 10 for two lines. This mechanism creates an incentive to clear
multiple lines in a single drop and, hopefully, encourages the player to aim
for more-strategic tile placements.
When a player loses because a tile reaches the top row, the player
receives a significant penalty ➊. After each tile drop, the code updates the

--- Strana 828 ---
total reward accumulated during the game and returns the incremental
reward.
Now that you’ve implemented the Tetris class, you can create an
instance of the game:
tetris = Tetris(rows=4, cols=4, max_tiles=50, random_seed=123456)
This creates an instance of the game with four rows, four columns, fifty
tiles, and a random seed so that the player encounters a consistent tile
sequence.
Playing Tetris with the Command Line
It’s time to bring the game to life and play it. The simplest way to interact
with this implementation is by using the command line, as shown in
Listing 13-6.
while not tetris.gameover:
    print(f"Tile {tetris.tile_count}/{tetris.max_tiles}")
    print(f"Reward: {tetris.reward}")
    print(f"Current tile {tetris.current_tile} with "
          f"orientation {tetris.tile_orientation} at position {tetris.tile_x}")
    print(tetris.TILES[tetris.current_tile][tetris.tile_orientation])
    print(tetris.board)
 ➊ cmd = input("Please enter your command (L, R, O, D, X): ").upper()
    print(f"Your input: {cmd} \n")
    if cmd == "L":
        tetris.move_left()
    elif cmd == "R":
        tetris.move_right()
    elif cmd == "O":
        tetris.rotate()
    elif cmd == "D":
        tetris.drop()
    elif cmd == "X":
        break
Listing 13-6: Playing Tetris with the command line

--- Strana 829 ---
This code provides a basic text-based interface to interact with the
game. The main gameplay loop continues until the gameover flag is set to
True, indicating that the game has ended because the player has either
dropped the maximum number of tiles (victory) or filled up the board
(loss).
Inside the loop, the game displays relevant information about the
current state in text form: the current tile number and the total number of
tiles; the current score; details about the current tile, including its number,
orientation, and lateral position with respect to the board; and a
representation of the current tile’s shape and of the game board.
The player is then prompted to press a letter key (L, R, O, D, or X)
representing a command to control the game ➊. L moves the current tile
to the left; R moves it to the right; O rotates it; D drops it to the bottom
of the board; and X exits the game loop and ends the game. Finally, the
method of the Tetris object corresponding to the player’s command is
called to update the game state. For example, if the player inputs L, the
move_left() method is called to move the tile leftward.
You can now enjoy playing the game with the command line.
Playing Tetris with a Pygame Graphical Interface
Although playing Tetris with the command line can be useful for
debugging, this isn’t the most user-friendly or enjoyable way to play it.
You can create a more visually engaging experience by integrating a
graphical interface with Pygame, a popular Python library for game
development. This permits you to add colorful graphics, animations, and
interactive controls, transforming the text-based game into a dynamic
visual experience. In doing so, you’ll achieve a more immersive and
authentic gameplay similar to the gameplay that has made the original
Tetris a timeless classic.
You can use Listing 13-7 to implement the play_tetris_with_gui()
function to play Tetris with a graphical interface.
import pygame
def play_tetris_with_gui(tetris):
    """Play Tetris with GUI for human players."""

--- Strana 830 ---
    TILE_SIZE = 20
    BLACK = (0, 0, 0)  # RGB code for black color
    GRAY = (128, 128, 128)  # RGB code for gray color
    WHITE = (255, 255, 255)  # RGB code for white color
    RED = (255, 0, 0)  # RGB code for red color
    # Initialize the game engine
    pygame.init()
    pygame.display.set_caption("TETRIS")
    screen = pygame.display.set_mode((200 + tetris.cols * TILE_SIZE, 
                                      200 + tetris.rows * TILE_SIZE))
    pygame.key.set_repeat(300, 100)  # Set keyboard delay and interval in ms
    font = pygame.font.SysFont("Calibri", 25, True)
    # Loop until the window is closed
    running = True
    while running: 
        # Paint game board
        if pygame.display.get_active():
            screen.fill(WHITE)
            for i in range(tetris.rows):
                for j in range(tetris.cols):
                 ➊ pygame.draw.rect(screen, GRAY,
                                     [100 + TILE_SIZE * j, 
                                      80 + TILE_SIZE * (tetris.rows - i), 
                                      TILE_SIZE, TILE_SIZE], 1)
                    if tetris.board[i][j] > 0:
                     ➋ pygame.draw.rect(screen, BLACK,
                                         [101 + TILE_SIZE * j, 
                                          81 + TILE_SIZE * (tetris.rows - i), 
                                          TILE_SIZE - 2, TILE_SIZE - 2])
         
            tile = tetris.TILES[tetris.current_tile][tetris.tile_orientation]
            for x in range(len(tile)):
                for y in range(tile[x][0], tile[x][1]):
                 ➌ pygame.draw.rect(screen, RED, [
                        101 + TILE_SIZE * (x + tetris.tile_x),
                        81 + TILE_SIZE * (tetris.rows - (y + tetris.tile_y)),

--- Strana 831 ---
                        TILE_SIZE - 2, TILE_SIZE - 2,
                    ])
         ➍ screen.blit(
                font.render(f"Reward: {tetris.reward}", True, BLACK), [0, 0],
            )
         ➎ screen.blit(
                font.render(f"Tile {tetris.tile_count}/{tetris.max_tiles}", 
                            True, BLACK), [0, 30]
            )
            if tetris.gameover:
                screen.blit(font.render("G A M E   O V E R", True, RED), 
                            [40, 100 + tetris.rows * TILE_SIZE])
                screen.blit(font.render("Press ESC to try again", True, RED), 
                            [10, 100 + tetris.rows * TILE_SIZE + 30])
        pygame.display.flip()
     
        # Get user input
        for event in pygame.event.get():
            if event.type == pygame.QUIT:
                running = False
            elif event.type == pygame.KEYDOWN:
                if event.key == pygame.K_ESCAPE:
                    tetris.restart()
                if not tetris.gameover:
                    if event.key == pygame.K_LEFT:
                        tetris.move_left()
                    elif event.key == pygame.K_RIGHT:
                        tetris.move_right()
                    elif event.key == pygame.K_UP:
                        tetris.rotate()
                    elif event.key == pygame.K_DOWN:
                        tetris.drop() 
             
    pygame.quit()
Listing 13-7: The function to play Tetris with a graphical interface
After initializing Pygame with pygame.init(), this script creates a Pygame
window with the title TETRIS and a specified size based on the

--- Strana 832 ---
dimensions of the game board and the tile size. In addition, the script
configures the keyboard input settings for smooth gameplay. For this
purpose, the script adjusts the keyboard delay so that a key can be held
down for 300 milliseconds before repeating, and sets the keyboard interval
between each repeated key event to 100 milliseconds.
During play, the game runs inside a while loop that continues until the
player closes the window. This loop handles user inputs, updates the game
state, and renders the game board.
Inside this game loop, the code first draws the game board on the
screen by using Pygame’s drawing functions. Each cell of the board is
represented by a rectangle ➊, with empty cells outlined in gray and
occupied cells filled in black ➋. The current tile is drawn in red ➌.
Then the code displays the game’s score (reward) ➍ and the current
tile count ➎ on the screen via Pygame’s font-rendering capabilities. If the
game is over, the Pygame window will display a GAME OVER message
and a prompt to restart the game.
At the end of each loop, the script calls the Pygame flip() method to
update the Pygame display to reflect the current state of the game board
and any messages rendered.
The script captures user inputs through keyboard events: The player
presses the left and right arrow keys to move the current tile, the up arrow
key to rotate it, and the down arrow key to drop it. Pressing the ESC key
restarts the game.
You can now launch the game with the following code:
tetris.restart()
play_tetris_with_gui(tetris)
Figure 13-2 shows some screenshots of the graphical interface.

--- Strana 833 ---
Figure 13-2: Screenshots of the simplified Tetris game
You can see the graphical interface as it appears at the beginning of the
game (left), during gameplay (middle), and after a victory (right).
By playing on Pygame’s rich graphical interface, you can verify that it
offers a more immersive and engaging experience compared to the
command line version. You should be able to easily get scores well above
60.
EXERCISE
13-3:  Using the previous code as a foundation, modify and extend
it to implement the classic version of Tetris. This requires adjusting
the game mechanics to align with the traditional gameplay, including
using the original Tetris scoring system, implementing the standard
tile shapes and rotations, and ensuring that the game’s progression
and end conditions reflect the classic game’s rules.
Making an Agent Play Tetris with Q-Learning
As you’ve seen in the previous sections, in Q-learning, an agent learns by
exploring the environment and receiving rewards or penalties based on its
actions. The agent’s ultimate goal is to learn a policy that maximizes its

--- Strana 834 ---
cumulative rewards. In this section, you’ll adapt the actions of the Tetris
class to facilitate an agent’s learning process, implement this agent, and
then apply the Q-learning procedure.
Adapting the Actions of Tetris for Q-Learning
In the simplified Tetris game you implemented with the Tetris class, the
player primarily derives rewards from clearing lines. However, line-
clearing is a relatively infrequent event, particularly for an untrained agent
taking what amounts to random actions. Only after a long series of actions
such as moving the tile left and right, rotating it, and dropping it does the
agent get the reward. Moreover, clearing a line often requires dropping
several tiles, further delaying the possible reward. Consequently, the agent
may not receive sufficient immediate feedback to learn effectively—or at
all.
To mitigate this issue, you can implement a mechanism that allows the
agent to directly position a tile in a specific location and orientation. This
approach effectively speeds up the gameplay, functioning as a form of “tile
teleportation.” With the ability to rapidly experiment with different tile
placements and orientations, the agent receives more-immediate feedback
on its actions, facilitating a more efficient and effective learning process.
You can implement this modification by creating a child class of the
Tetris class, as shown in Listing 13-8.
class QLTetris(Tetris):
    """Simplified Tetris for Q-learning."""
 
    def __init__(self, rows, cols, max_tiles, random_seed):
        """Initialize Tetris for Q-learning."""
        super().__init__(rows, cols, max_tiles, random_seed)
 
    def teleport(self, new_x, new_orientation):
        """Teleport current tile to new position and orientation."""
     ➊ if 0 <= new_orientation < len(Tetris.TILES[self.current_tile]):
            tilewidth = len(Tetris.TILES[self.current_tile][new_orientation])
         ➋ if 0 <= new_x <= self.cols - tilewidth:
                self.tile_x = new_x
                self.tile_orientation = new_orientation

--- Strana 835 ---
                return True
        return False
Listing 13-8: The class to play Tetris with Q-learning
By incorporating the teleport() method, the QLTetris class provides a
more suitable environment for Q-learning; the agent can rapidly test
strategies and receive timely feedback. This method begins by checking
the validity of the requested orientation ➊. Then the method calculates
the width of the tile in this new orientation. With this new information,
the method ensures that the new horizontal position is within the
permissible range ➋. If both the new orientation and position are valid,
the method instantly updates the tile’s horizontal position and orientation,
effectively “teleporting” the tile to its new state. The method returns True
to indicate the success of the teleport action or False to indicate its failure.
You can now create an instance of this class with Listing 13-9.
qltetris = QLTetris(rows=4, cols=4, max_tiles=50, random_seed=123456)
Listing 13-9: Creating an instance of Tetris adapted for Q-learning
This code creates an instance of the Tetris game adapted for Q-
learning, which you’ll use in the following sections. Note that it uses a
fixed sequence of tiles by setting a value for random_seed.
Implementing the Q-Learning Agent
Now that you’ve built the modified Tetris game, you need to create an
agent capable of learning to play, using Q-learning. You’ll implement the
agent step-by-step in this section.
First, you’ll define the agent’s basic structure, enabling it to interact
with the game by taking random actions. Next, you’ll implement state
tracking, encoding the game board and current tile into a usable format.
Then you’ll introduce a Q-table for storing and updating expected
rewards for state-action pairs, followed by implementing the Q-learning
update rule to refine the agent’s strategy over time. Finally, you’ll train the
agent by allowing it to play multiple games, learning from experience and
improving its performance as it progresses.

--- Strana 836 ---
Making the Agent Take Actions
You’ll start by defining the basic structure of the QLAgent class, allowing the
agent to take random actions in the game by selecting a position and
orientation for each tile and then dropping it. You’ll also include
mechanisms for restarting the game after a loss and handling multiple
games in a sequence. Start by creating the QLAgent class, as shown in Listing
13-10.
class QLAgent:
    """Q-learning agent to play Tetris."""
 
    def __init__(self, tetris, games):
        """Initialize the agent."""
        self.tetris = tetris
        self.games, self.game = games, 0
     
        self.position_num = self.tetris.cols
        self.orientation_num = np.max([len(tile) for tile in Tetris.TILES])
        self.action_num = self.position_num * self.orientation_num
    def next_turn(self):
        """Execute the next turn in the game."""
        if self.tetris.gameover:
            if self.game + 1 < self.games:
                self.game += 1
             ➊ self.tetris.restart()
            else:
             ➋ return False  # Finish
        else:
         ➌ action = np.random.randint(self.action_num)
         
            new_x = action // self.position_num
            new_orientation = action % self.orientation_num
         ➍ if self.tetris.teleport(new_x, new_orientation):
                self.tetris.drop()
         
     ➎ return True  # Continue
Listing 13-10: The class representing a Q-learning agent taking a random action

--- Strana 837 ---
In its initialization, the class receives an instance of QLTetris (tetris) and
a number of games to be played (games). The current game (game) is set to 0.
Then the initialization method calculates the number of possible actions
(action_num) by taking the product of the number of positions (position_num)
and the maximum number of possible orientations (orientation_num). The
number of positions is equal to the number of rows in the Tetris board—in
this case, four from the settings in Listing 13-9. In Listing 13-1, the
maximum number of possible orientations is four.
When the next_turn() method is called, it randomly selects an action ➌,
from which the method gets the tile’s potential position (new_x) and
orientation (new_orientation). Finally, if this position and orientation are
legal ➍, the tile is dropped. Otherwise, nothing happens, and the agent
will wait for the next turn.
Once the agent wins or loses a game, it proceeds to start a new game if
more games remain to be played ➊, and the next_turn() method returns True
➎. Otherwise, nothing happens, and it returns False ➋.
Observing the Agent Play
After implementing this agent, you might want to observe how it behaves.
You can do this by adapting the play_tetris_with_gui() function (Listing 13-
7) so that the agent plays in your place, as shown in Listing 13-11.
def observe_tetris_with_gui(tetris, agent):
    """Observe a QL agent playing Tetris with GUI."""
    --snip--
    while running:
        --snip--
        # Get user input
        for event in pygame.event.get():
            if event.type == pygame.QUIT:
                running = False
            elif event.type == pygame.KEYDOWN:
             ➊ running = agent.next_turn()
    --snip--
Listing 13-11: The function to observe an agent playing Tetris with a graphical interface (by
modifying Listing 13-7)

--- Strana 838 ---
This function removes most of the user inputs and keeps only KEYDOWN,
which now makes the agent take the next turn in the game ➊.
You can use this function with Listing 13-12.
qltetris.restart()
agent = QLAgent(qltetris, games=3)
observe_tetris_with_gui(qltetris, agent)
Listing 13-12: Observing an agent play
This code restarts the game, creates an agent that will play for three
games, and lets you observe what the agent does.
As you push the down arrow key, you’ll see that the agent makes
random moves, often losing the game quickly. You’ll also observe that
sometimes nothing happens when you push a key. This is because the
randomly selected action is invalid.
Making the Agent Keep Track of the State of the Game
To decide which action to take, the agent must be able to assess the game’s
current state, which is a representation of the current board situation and
the current tile being played. You can make the necessary updates to the
QLAgent class with Listing 13-13.
class QLAgent:
    --snip--
    def __init__(self, tetris, games):
        --snip--
        self.state_size = (
         ➊ self.tetris.cols * self.tetris.rows  # Cells in board
         ➋ + 1 + np.floor(np.log2(len(Tetris.TILES) - 1)).astype(int)  # Tiles
        )
        self.state_num = 2 ** self.state_size
     ➌ self.update_state()
    def update_state(self):
        """Update the state of the agent."""
     ➍ tile = bin(self.tetris.current_tile)[2:]

--- Strana 839 ---
     ➎ board = np.copy(self.tetris.board.reshape((-1,))).astype(int)
        board[board == Tetris.UNDEFINED] = 0
     
     ➏ self.state_binary = np.append(tile, board)
     ➐ self.state = int("".join(str(i) for i in self.state_binary), 2)
    def next_turn(self):
        """Execute the next turn in the game."""
        if self.tetris.gameover:
            if self.game + 1 < self.games:
                self.game += 1
                self.tetris.restart()
                self.update_state()
            --snip--
        else:
            action = np.random.randint(self.action_num)
            --snip--
            if self.tetris.teleport(new_x, new_orientation):
                self.tetris.drop()
             ➑ self.update_state()
        --snip--
Listing 13-13: The class implementing a Q-learning agent with a representation of the state of
the game (by modifying Listing 13-10)
This code updates the QLAgent class to include a method for keeping
track of the game state. This class calculates a unique representation of the
game state by encoding the current board configuration and the current
tile, and that state is then used to inform the agent’s decisions during
gameplay. The state is updated after each turn and when the game restarts.
During its initialization, the updated class calculates the size of the
state (state_size) used to represent the state of the game. If you think of the
state as a binary number, you can determine state_size by adding the
number of cells on the board, each of which can be full or empty
(corresponding to 16 bits) ➊, to the logarithm (base 2) of the number of
different tiles, rounded down to the nearest integer and incremented by 1
(corresponding to 2 bits) ➋. This second expression represents the
additional bits required to encode the current tile in play. The class then

--- Strana 840 ---
calculates the number of states (state_num) as the power of 2 raised to this
combined size (216+2).
The update_state() method updates the state representation of the game.
This method first converts the current tile into a binary representation ➍,
simplifying the encoding of the tile type by using Python’s built-in bin()
function. This function returns a string representation of the integer in
binary format, prefixed with 0b. The inclusion of [2:] removes this 0b
prefix, ensuring that the resulting string contains only binary digits
representing the current tile. Next, update_state() transforms the game
board into a 1D binary list ➎ by flattening the board’s cells and converting
them to integers; then it sets any undefined cells in the board (represented
by UNDEFINED) to zero, ensuring a consistent binary representation of the
state. Next, the binary representations of both the tile and the board ➏ are
concatenated, forming a combined binary state representation. Afterward,
the method converts this binary state into an integer ➐, providing a
unique numerical representation of the entire game state. Ultimately, the
Q-learning algorithm needs this state to make decisions based on the
game’s current situation. Accordingly, the updated code calls the
update_state() method both when initializing the agent ➌ and after every
turn in the game ➑. This means that the agent always has an up-to-date
representation of the game state to work with.
You can use Listing 13-12 to verify that this code still works as before.
You can also confirm that the number of states is 262,144 by using
print(agent.state_num), corresponding to a state size of 18, which you can
print using print(agent.state_size). This is a pretty big number for a
relatively simple game. You can already see how the state size can scale
quickly for more-complex environments.
Adding a Q-Table to the Agent
A Q-table is a fundamental data structure in Q-learning, used to store and
update the Q-values associated with each state-action pair. The Q-table is
essentially a 2D array, with each row representing a possible state the
agent can be in, and each column representing a possible action the agent
can take.

--- Strana 841 ---
The entries in the table, known as Q-values, quantify the expected
future rewards of taking a specific action in a specific state, following the
agent’s current policy. As the agent explores the environment and
experiences various state transitions and rewards, it updates the Q-values
in the table, gradually refining its strategy to maximize cumulative
rewards.
The Q-table provides the agent with a clear map of its knowledge
about the environment, allowing it to select actions that are expected to
yield the best outcomes. The size of the Q-table can become large,
depending on the number of possible states and actions, which makes it a
powerful yet memory-intensive tool in Q-learning.
Once your agent can keep track of the current state, you need to equip
it with a Q-table to consult when deciding what action to take, as shown
in Listing 13-14.
class QLAgent:
    --snip-- 
    def __init__(self, tetris, games, epsilon):
        --snip--
        self.epsilon = epsilon
        self.Q_table = np.zeros((self.state_num, self.action_num))
        self.update_state()
    def next_turn(self):
        """Execute the next turn in the game."""
        if self.tetris.gameover:
            --snip--
        else:
            if np.random.rand() < self.epsilon:
             ➊ action = np.random.randint(self.action_num)
            else:
             ➋ action = np.argmax(self.Q_table[self.state, :])
            --snip--
Listing 13-14: The class representing a Q-learning agent with a Q-table (by modifying Listing
13-13)

--- Strana 842 ---
This new iteration of the QLAgent class adds a Q-table and an epsilon
parameter to the Q-learning agent. Introduced in the constructor, the
epsilon parameter represents the probability of the agent choosing a
random action instead of the one suggested by the Q-table. This approach
is known as the epsilon-greedy policy, which promotes exploration of the
state-action space.
The class initializes the Q_table as a 2D NumPy array with dimensions
corresponding to the number of possible states (self.state_num) and the
number of available actions (self.action_num). The array is filled with 0s so
that the table can store the expected rewards for taking different actions in
various states. In this case, the array has 262,144 × 16 entries,
corresponding to 4,194,304 expected rewards. You can verify this with
print(agent.Q_table.shape) and print(agent.Q_table.size), respectively.
During each turn, the agent decides whether to take a random action
or the best known action based on the current Q-table. The agent makes
this decision by comparing a random number to epsilon. If the random
number is less than epsilon, the agent chooses a random action ➊.
Otherwise, the agent selects the action with the highest expected reward
in the current state as indicated by the Q-table ➋. This mechanism
balances exploration (trying new actions) and exploitation (using learned
knowledge), which is crucial for the Q-agent’s effective learning.
You can now use Listing 13-15 to observe how the agent uses the Q-
table to play.
qltetris.restart()
agent = QLAgent(qltetris, games=3, epsilon=0)
observe_tetris_with_gui(qltetris, agent)
Listing 13-15: Observing an agent playing with an epsilon-greedy policy (by modifying Listing
13-12)
This code sets the epsilon-greedy policy to 0, meaning the agent will
always choose the strategy from the Q-table without random exploration.
Since the Q-table is initially filled with 0s and has not been trained yet,
the agent’s behavior will be quite simple: It will just teleport all tiles to
position 0 and orientation 0 and drop them.
Adding the Code to Train the Agent

--- Strana 843 ---
Now that you’ve constructed your Q-table, you need to add the code that
makes it possible to train the agent’s Q-table according to the Q-learning
update rule you saw previously (Equation 13.2). You can do this with the
modifications introduced in Listing 13-16.
class QLAgent:
    --snip--
    def __init__(self, tetris, games, epsilon, alpha, gamma):
        --snip--
        self.alpha = alpha  # Learning rate
        self.gamma = gamma  # Discount factor
        self.rewards = np.zeros(games)
        self.update_state()
    def next_turn(self):
        """Execute the next turn in the game."""
        if self.tetris.gameover:
         ➊ self.rewards[self.game] = self.tetris.reward
            if self.game > 0 and self.game % 100 == 0:
                av_reward = np.mean(self.rewards[self.game - 100:self.game])
                print(f"game {self.game}/{self.games} reward {av_reward}")
            if self.game + 1 < self.games:
                self.game += 1
                self.tetris.restart()
            else:
             ➋ np.savetxt("Q_table.txt", self.Q_table)
                return False  # Finish
        else:
         ➌ old_state = self.state
            --snip--
            if self.tetris.teleport(new_x, new_orientation):
                reward = self.tetris.drop()
         
                self.update_state()
             ➍ new_state = self.state
             ➎ dQ = self.alpha * (

--- Strana 844 ---
                    reward
                    + self.gamma * np.max(self.Q_table[new_state, :])
                    - self.Q_table[old_state, action]
                )
                         
             ➏ self.Q_table[old_state, action] += dQ
            else:  # Penalty for illegal move.
             ➐ self.Q_table[old_state, action] += -50
        --snip--
Listing 13-16: The class implementing a Q-learning agent capable of training the Q-table (by
modifying Listing 13-14)
This code completes the implementation of the agent. You’ve now
implemented the combination of rewards, penalties, and updating
mechanism based on the learning rate and discount factor that will enable
the agent to progressively refine its policy and improve its performance in
the game.
This code adds two important parameters to the constructor of the
QLAgent class. The alpha parameter represents the learning rate, which
determines the extent to which the agent updates its knowledge based on
new information. The gamma parameter is the discount factor, which
balances the importance of immediate and future rewards. You’ve already
seen these parameters in Equation 13.2.
In addition, the agent now maintains an array to store rewards for each
game (rewards). This array is used to track the agent’s performance over
time. During gameplay, the agent checks whether the game is over. If so,
the agent logs the received reward for the game ➊ and periodically prints
the average reward over the last 100 games, providing insights into its
learning progress.
If the number of games played is less than the total number of games
specified, the agent starts a new game. Otherwise, the agent saves the Q-
table into the Q_table.txt file and stops training ➋.
During each turn, the agent records the current state as the old state
before making a move ➌. If a move is successful, the agent calculates the
reward, updates its state to the new state ➍, and then updates the Q-table.
The Q-table update involves calculating the difference in value between
the estimated future reward and the current value for the action taken in

--- Strana 845 ---
the old state ➎. This difference, scaled by the learning rate alpha, is added
to the current Q-value, allowing the agent to learn from its experience ➏.
If the agent makes an illegal move, the code applies a penalty by
subtracting a fixed amount from the Q-value of the [old state, action] pair
➐. This penalty discourages the agent from repeating ineffective or invalid
actions, guiding it toward more-successful strategies.
Training the Q-Learning Agent
You can finally train the agent by using Listing 13-17.
qltetris.restart()
agent = QLAgent(qltetris, games=1_000, epsilon=0, alpha=0.2, gamma=1)
while agent.next_turn():
    pass
Listing 13-17: Training the Q-learning agent
This code trains the Q-learning agent. The code restarts the game,
initializes an agent to play 1,000 games without ever taking random moves
(epsilon of 0), sets a learning rate of 0.2, and sets a discount factor of 1. The
training iterates through a while loop that allows the agent to play, learn,
and update its strategy until it completes the specified number of games.
During training, the reward should steadily increase as the Q-learning
agent improves its policy. You can visualize this improvement by plotting
the rewards over time via Listing 13-18.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
plt.plot(agent.rewards)
plt.xlabel("Game")
plt.ylabel("Reward")
plt.legend()
plt.show()
Listing 13-18: Plotting the reward during training
Figure 13-3 shows the resulting plot.

--- Strana 846 ---
Figure 13-3: The rewards when training a Q-learning agent with a fixed sequence of tiles
As expected, the reward line shows an upward trend, indicating that
the agent learns to maximize its cumulative reward over time. Notably,
around 350 games, the reward jumps significantly by exactly 100,
suggesting that the agent has discovered its first strategy to avoid the –100
penalty for losing the game. However, this result doesn’t necessarily mean
that the strategy is near optimal. The result simply indicates that the agent
has reached a point where it can sustain the game without incurring the
game-over penalty.
You can now observe the agent play with the strategy it has learned,
using Listing 13-19.
qltetris.restart()
agent = QLAgent(qltetris, games=1, epsilon=0, alpha=0.2, gamma=1)

--- Strana 847 ---
agent.Q_table = np.loadtxt("Q_table.txt")
observe_tetris_with_gui(qltetris, agent)
Listing 13-19: Observing a Q-learning agent using a trained Q-table to play Tetris
This code loads the trained Q-table from the Q_table.txt file and uses it
to initialize the Q-table of the agent. Afterward, you can watch the agent
play Tetris with the learned strategy. Note that the agent always plays the
same strategy, taking advantage of the fixed sequence of tiles.
EXERCISE
13-4:  Change the value of epsilon in Listing 13-19 to 0.1 so that on
average, one move out of ten is random. Observe that the agent loses
its ability to play the game successfully as soon as a random move
happens. Can you explain why the policy learned by the agent is so
fragile?
To quantify how much the agent learned, you can check the number of
Q-table rows that contain nonzero values, which represent the states
where the agent has gained some experience. You can do this with Listing
13-20.
Q_table = agent.Q_table
non_zero_rows_mask = np.any(Q_table != 0, axis=1)
num_non_zero_rows = np.sum(non_zero_rows_mask)
print(f"Non-zero rows = {num_non_zero_rows}")
Listing 13-20: Analyzing the sparsity of the trained Q-table
The output will display a very small number of nonzero rows in the Q-
table—typically, around 100 out of the 262,144 Q-table rows
corresponding to all possible game states. Such a small number of nonzero
rows suggests that the agent has learned to focus its strategy on the subset
of states encountered with the fixed sequence of tiles but has not learned
to generalize to other situations. Accordingly, the agent is incapable of
dealing with even a single random event.

--- Strana 848 ---
EXERCISE
13-5:  Introduce randomness in the Q-learning agent’s training by
setting epsilon to 0.001, allowing occasional exploratory actions.
Increase training to 100,000 games for broader state-action learning.
Assess the impact on Q-table sparsity, since more-diverse actions
might reduce sparsity. Observe the learning curve and final
performance, and evaluate whether randomness enhances the agent’s
policy and ability to learn optimal Tetris strategies.
Training with a Random Tile Sequence
You can now assess the performance of Q-learning when the agent is
trained with a random sequence of tiles. This introduces a higher level of
complexity because of the increased variability in the state space. You can
perform this assessment with Listing 13-21.
qltetris = QLTetris(rows=4, cols=4, max_tiles=50, random_seed=None)
agent = QLAgent(qltetris, games=200_000, epsilon=0.001, alpha=0.2, gamma=1)
while agent.next_turn():
    pass
Listing 13-21: Training the Q-learning agent with random tile sequences (by modifying Listing
13-17)
This code sets the training tile sequence to a random one by selecting
None for random_seed, increases the number of games, and introduces
additional randomness in the agent by setting epsilon to 0.001.
You can plot the rewards during training by adapting Listing 13-18 to
add the smoothed average of the reward over time, as shown in Listing
13-22.
smoothed_rewards = np.convolve(agent.rewards, np.ones(100) / 100, mode="valid")
plt.plot(agent.rewards, label="Raw Rewards")

--- Strana 849 ---
plt.plot(smoothed_rewards, label="Smoothed Rewards")
--snip--
Listing 13-22: Plotting the reward during training (by modifying Listing 13-18)
This code uses a convolution operation to calculate the smoothed
rewards; this technique helps illustrate the trend more clearly by reducing
the noise in the raw rewards. The code should generate a plot similar to
Figure 13-4.
Figure 13-4: The rewards when training a Q-learning agent with random tile sequences
The rewards the agent received don’t increase as much as they did
during training with the fixed tile sequence, remaining confined around an
average of 0 at best. However, the rewards display a very large variability,
in part due to the epsilon-greedy policy, which introduces a random action
every 1,000 actions on average.

--- Strana 850 ---
In executing Listing 13-20, the count of nonzero rows in the Q-table
increases to about 20,000 thanks to the more random exploration of the
space. However, this number is still much smaller than the 262,144 Q-
table entries, meaning that the agent hasn’t been able to explore the whole
state space. As a potential solution, you could try to extend the number of
training games.
Making an Agent Play Tetris with Deep Q-Learning
The previous sections highlighted the challenges faced when applying
traditional Q-learning to environments with vast state spaces, such as
Tetris with a random tile sequence. The combinatorial explosion of states
makes maintaining and updating a Q-table impractical, since an unfeasible
amount of memory and training iterations would be needed to cover a
significant portion of the state-action space.
To address these challenges, you can turn to deep Q-learning, a
powerful variant that combines Q-learning with deep neural networks.
Deep Q-learning uses deep learning to approximate the Q-values for
state-action pairs, enabling the agent to generalize across similar states
and effectively reduce the dimensionality of the state-action space. Instead
of a Q-table, a deep Q-learning agent uses a neural network as a function
approximator to predict Q-values for all possible actions, given a state.
This approach is particularly advantageous for complex environments
because it allows the agent to learn in a continuous space and effectively
handle a large variety of states.
Understanding Deep Q-Learning
In deep Q-learning, two neural networks play a critical role in the learning
process: the Q-network and the target network.
As the main neural network, the Q-network (QNet) is actively trained
to approximate the Q-value function, predicting the total expected
rewards for taking specific actions in a given state. This network
undergoes continual learning, updating its weights at each step or after
certain intervals during the training process. The QNet bases its updates
on the temporal difference error, which is the difference between the

--- Strana 851 ---
predicted and target Q-values. The QNet seeks to minimize this
discrepancy through backpropagation.
One of the main challenges in deep Q-learning is the inherent
instability that can occur if the target Q-values depend on the same
network that selects actions. Using the QNet for both purposes can lead
to harmful feedback loops where the Q-values might oscillate or diverge.
For instance, imagine that the QNet slightly overestimates the value of a
particular action in a given state. If this overestimation guides the agent to
repeatedly choose that action, the QNet updates might reinforce this
mistake, amplifying the error over time. This could cause the Q-values to
shift erratically, making it difficult for the agent to learn an optimal policy.
To stabilize the learning process, deep Q-learning uses a target network
(TargetNet), which shares the QNet’s architecture but maintains a
separate set of weights. Since the TargetNet doesn’t select actions, there’s
no need to update its weights as frequently. The TargetNet provides stable
target Q-values for the QNet to learn from. Updating the TargetNet less
frequently reflects the slowly improving policy, avoiding the potential
instabilities that might arise from using rapidly changing Q-values as
learning targets. Consequently, a separate TargetNet ensures that the
QNet has consistent and reliable targets for learning.
NOTE
An intuitive way to understand the relationship between the QNet and
TargetNet is through the lens of the teacher-student learning
paradigm. In this analogy, the QNet is the eager student, constantly
learning and updating its knowledge based on new experiences. However,
if the student tries to learn solely from their own rapidly changing
understanding, they might become confused or develop misconceptions
due to overfitting to recent experiences. The TargetNet acts as the wise
teacher, providing stable and reliable guidance. By keeping the teacher’s
knowledge (the TargetNet’s weights) fixed for a period, the student can
learn effectively from consistent targets without being misled by
fluctuations in their own learning process. Periodically, the teacher
updates their knowledge to reflect the student’s progress, ensuring that
the learning journey remains on a steady path. This teacher-student

--- Strana 852 ---
dynamic stabilizes the learning process, allowing the QNet to converge
more smoothly toward an optimal policy.
In addition to these networks, deep Q-learning incorporates an epsilon-
greedy strategy to balance the exploration of untested states with the
exploitation of the current knowledge, represented by the Q-values. This
strategy initially favors exploration to prevent the agent from becoming
trapped in a suboptimal policy early on. As the agent learns more about
the environment, the strategy gradually reduces the epsilon value,
allowing the agent to transition to exploiting its learned values and
refining its policies.
Through these mechanisms, deep Q-learning can approximate the
value function for environments with large state spaces, allowing a deep
Q-learning agent to learn policies that generalize well across states and
lead to high performance levels. This is particularly important in games
like Tetris, where the number of possible states and sequences of actions is
overwhelmingly large, rendering traditional methods ineffective.
Implementing the Deep Q-Learning Agent
With these underlying concepts, you’re ready to upgrade the Q-learning
agent to a deep Q-learning agent. You’ll do this step-by-step in the
following sections. First, you’ll define the neural networks required for
deep Q-learning, including the QNet and the TargetNet. Next, you’ll
modify the agent to use these networks to select actions and update its
policy. Then you’ll implement a replay buffer to store and sample
experiences, which is essential for training the neural networks. After that,
you’ll add the training logic for the QNet, ensuring that it learns
effectively from the experiences stored in the buffer. Finally, you’ll
periodically synchronize the TargetNet with the QNet to stabilize the
training process. Doing this, you’ll implement a fully functional deep Q-
learning agent capable of playing Tetris.
Adding the Neural Networks
Start by instantiating the necessary neural networks as shown in Listing
13-23.

--- Strana 853 ---
import deeplay as dl
import torch
class DQLAgent(dl.Application):
    """Deep Q-learning agent to play Tetris."""
 
    def __init__(self, tetris, games, epsilon, alpha, gamma, hidden_units, 
                 **kwargs):
        --snip--
     ➊ self.q_net = self.get_net(hidden_units)
     ➋ self.target_net = self.get_net(hidden_units)
     ➌ super().__init__(
            loss=torch.nn.MSELoss(),
            optimizer=torch.optim.Adam(self.q_net.parameters(), lr=0.001), 
            **kwargs,
        )
     
        self.update_state()
 
    def get_net(self, hidden_units):
        """Create instance of neural network."""
        net = dl.MultiLayerPerceptron(
            in_features=self.state_size,
            hidden_features=hidden_units, 
            out_features=self.action_num,
        )
        return net.build()
 
    --snip--
Listing 13-23: Adding the neural networks (by modifying Listing 13-14)
This code creates the DQLAgent class with a QNet and TargetNet. In
contrast to the traditional Q-learning code, this approach implements this
class as a Deeplay Application because it will contain a trainable neural
network.
The get_net() method builds a dense neural network that accepts the
state as input, has a hidden layer, and returns the predicted Q-values for
each possible action. The hidden_units parameter specifies the number of

--- Strana 854 ---
hidden neurons. The activation functions of the hidden layers are set to
ReLU by default, but to further stabilize the training, you could also use
GeLU (Gaussian error linear unit), a smooth approximation of ReLU that
can improve training stability and convergence. When initializing the
agent, the code calls this method twice to create the QNet ➊ and the
TargetNet ➋.
Finally, the code calls the constructor of the parent Application class to
set the loss and optimizer ➌. Notice that only the QNet is optimized in
the training cycle, while the weights of the TargetNet will only
periodically be updated, as you’ll see later. Additional keyword arguments
(kwargs) for the Application class can also be passed through the constructor.
You can now inspect the architecture of the QNet and TargetNet via
print(agent.q_net) and print(agent.target_net) to confirm that these
architectures are identical.
Adapting the State Variable to PyTorch
After defining the QNet and TargetNet, you need to update the state
variable to make it compatible with PyTorch, as shown in Listing 13-24.
--snip--
class DQLAgent(dl.Application):
    --snip--
    def update_state(self):
        """Update the state of the agent."""
        num_bits = int(np.ceil(np.log2(len(Tetris.TILES))))
     ➊ tile = bin(self.tetris.current_tile)[2:].zfill(num_bits)
        tile = np.array([int(i) for i in tile])
        board = np.copy(self.tetris.board.reshape((-1,))).astype(int)
        board[board == Tetris.UNDEFINED] = 0
     
     ➋ self.state_binary = np.append(tile, board)
        self.state = torch.tensor(self.state_binary, dtype=torch.float32)
     
    --snip--
Listing 13-24: Making the state compatible with PyTorch (by modifying Listing 13-23)

--- Strana 855 ---
To make the state compatible with PyTorch, this code alters the
update_state() method to return the state reflecting the current game
situation as a PyTorch array. First, the code defines the num_bits variable to
determine the number of bits needed to represent all different Tetris tiles
in binary format. Next, the code converts the current tile into a binary
string, removes the 0b prefix, and then zero-pads it to ensure that it has a
length equal to the number of bits ➊. This results in a fixed-length binary
representation of the current tile type. The code then converts the binary
string into an array of integers for further processing.
Like the previous version of this method, the new method represents
the game board as a binary list. Each cell of the board is reshaped into a
1D array and converted to integers, just as it was in the corresponding
method of the DLAgent class.
Finally, the code concatenates the binary representations of the tile
and the board into a representation of the game’s complete state ➋. This
state is then converted into the state PyTorch tensor to be input into the
neural network for further processing and decision-making by the agent.
Updating the Selection of the Action
Once you’ve modified the method for updating the current state, you can
update the selection of the action to use the QNet instead of the Q-table,
as shown in Listing 13-25.
--snip--
class DQLAgent(dl.Application):
    --snip--
 
    def next_turn(self):
        """Execute the next turn in the game."""
        if self.tetris.gameover:
            --snip--
        else:
            old_state = self.state
         
            with torch.no_grad():
                if np.random.rand() < self.epsilon:
                    action = np.random.randint(self.action_num)

--- Strana 856 ---
                else:
                    state = self.state.view(1, self.state_size)
                    output = self.q_net(state).detach().numpy()[0]
                    action = np.argmax(output)
         
                new_x = action // self.position_num
                new_orientation = action % self.orientation_num
             
                self.tetris.teleport(new_x, new_orientation)
                reward = self.tetris.drop()
                 
                self.update_state()
                new_state = self.state
        return True  # Continue
Listing 13-25: Updating the selection of the action (by modifying Listing 13-24)
This code modifies the next_turn() method to use the QNet for
selecting actions instead of relying on the Q-table. Within a torch.no_grad()
context that disables gradient calculations to save memory and
computations, the agent decides with an epsilon-greedy strategy whether
to take a random action or to choose the best action according to its
QNet. In the latter case, the agent’s current state is reshaped and passed
through the QNet, which outputs the Q-values for each possible action.
Then the agent chooses the action with the highest Q-value.
After its selection, the method decomposes the action into rotation and
movement components and uses them to manipulate the piece on the
game board. The teleport() method moves the piece to the new position
and orientation, then drops the piece to update the game state. Note that
the if statement to check the legality of the teleport action is now missing;
if the teleportation is impossible, the tile will drop in its initial position
and orientation. The QNet will have to learn to adapt to this scenario.
Updating the Epsilon-Greedy Strategy
Now that you’ve applied the QNet to select the action, you need to
update the epsilon-greedy strategy so that the value of epsilon gradually
decreases across games. This allows the agent to transition from exploring

--- Strana 857 ---
the game environment through random actions to exploiting learned
strategies as it gains experience. Listing 13-26 shows how to do this.
--snip--
class DQLAgent(dl.Application):
    --snip--
 
    def __init__(self, tetris, games, epsilon_max, epsilon_min, epsilon_scale, 
                 alpha, gamma, hidden_units, **kwargs):
        --snip--
        self.epsilon_max = epsilon_max 
        self.epsilon_min = epsilon_min
        self.epsilon_scale = epsilon_scale
        self.epsilon = self.epsilon_max
        --snip--
 
    def next_turn(self):
        """Execute the next turn in the game."""
        if self.tetris.gameover:
            --snip--         
         ➊ self.epsilon = max(
                self.epsilon_min,
                self.epsilon_max - self.game / self.epsilon_scale, 
            )
        else:
            --snip--
Listing 13-26: Updating the epsilon-greedy strategy (by modifying Listing 13-25)
This code updates the epsilon-greedy policy. Initially, the agent favors
exploration by setting a high probability (epsilon_max) of taking random
actions. As the agent plays more games, epsilon_scale controls the rate at
which the value of epsilon decreases ➊, ensuring that it doesn’t fall below
the minimum threshold set by epsilon_min. The agent then uses the current
value of epsilon to balance exploration and exploitation.
Creating an Experience Buffer

--- Strana 858 ---
After modifying the epsilon-greedy policy, you need to create a buffer to
record the experience accumulated during the game so that you can use it
to train the QNet, as shown in Listing 13-27.
--snip--
class DQLAgent(dl.Application):
    --snip--
 
    def __init__(self, tetris, games, epsilon_max, epsilon_min, epsilon_scale, 
                 alpha, gamma, hidden_units, replay_buffer_size, **kwargs):
        --snip--
        self.buffer = []
        self.replay_buffer_size = replay_buffer_size
     
        self.update_state()
    def next_turn(self):
        """Execute the next turn in the game."""
        if self.tetris.gameover:
            --snip--
        else:
            --snip--
            with torch.no_grad():
                --snip--
                new_state = self.state
             
             ➊ self.buffer.append({
                    "old_state": old_state, 
                    "action": action, 
                    "reward": reward, 
                    "new_state": new_state, 
                    "gameover": self.tetris.gameover,
                })
                if len(self.buffer) >= self.replay_buffer_size + 1:
                 ➋ self.buffer.pop(0)
        return True  # Continue
Listing 13-27: Creating a training buffer (by modifying Listing 13-26)

--- Strana 859 ---
This code adds a buffer to the DQLAgent class. The buffer’s size is
determined by the replay_buffer_size parameter. During each turn in the
game, the code adds a new entry to the buffer. This entry contains all the
information needed to train the QNet ➊, including the previous state, the
selected action, the reward, the new state, and a flag indicating whether
the turn resulted in a game over. When the buffer reaches its capacity, the
addition of any new entry will simultaneously remove the oldest one ➋.
Adding the Code to Train the QNet
With all the QNet’s components in place, you need to add the code to
train it, as shown in Listing 13-28.
--snip--
class DQLAgent(dl.Application):
    --snip--
 
    def __init__(self, tetris, games, epsilon_max, epsilon_min, epsilon_scale, 
                 alpha, gamma, hidden_units, replay_buffer_size, batch_size, 
                 **kwargs):
        --snip--
        self.buffer = []
        self.replay_buffer_size = replay_buffer_size
        self.batch_size = batch_size
        --snip--
    def next_turn(self):
        """Execute the next turn in the game."""
        if self.tetris.gameover:
            --snip--
        else:
            --snip--
            if len(self.buffer) >= self.replay_buffer_size:
             ➊ batch = random.sample(self.buffer, self.batch_size)
                # Store states in lists
                states, next_states = [], []
                for sample in batch:
                    states.append(sample["old_state"])
                    next_states.append(sample["new_state"])

--- Strana 860 ---
             
                # Evaluate next state with TargetNet
                with torch.no_grad():
                 ➋ q_hat = self.target_net(torch.stack(next_states, dim=0))
             
                # Compute targets
                targets = torch.zeros(self.batch_size, self.action_num)
                targets_mask = torch.zeros(self.batch_size, self.action_num)
                for idx, sample in enumerate(batch):
                    if sample["gameover"]:
                        target = sample["reward"]
                    else:
                        target = (sample["reward"] 
                                  + self.gamma * np.nanmax(q_hat[idx, :]))
                    targets[idx, sample["action"]] = target
                    targets_mask[idx, sample["action"]] = 1
             
                # Evaluate predictions, apply mask, and update weights
                self.optimizer.zero_grad()
                preds = self.q_net(torch.stack(states, dim=0))
             ➌ masked_preds = preds * targets_mask
             ➍ loss = self.loss(masked_preds, targets)
                loss.backward()
             ➎ self.optimizer.step()
     
        return True  # Continue
Listing 13-28: Training the QNet (by modifying Listing 13-27)
This code introduces the process for training the QNet by sampling a
batch of experiences from the replay buffer. The code uses these samples
to compute target Q-values with the TargetNet and then updates the
QNet’s weights by minimizing the difference between its predicted Q-
values and the targets. This allows the agent to learn and improve its
performance over time.
The training process begins when the replay buffer reaches the size
specified by the replay_buffer_size attribute. This ensures that there is
enough data to train the network effectively. At this point, the code
samples a batch of experiences from the replay buffer ➊. This sampling

--- Strana 861 ---
method helps reduce the correlation between consecutive training
samples, which are often similar because of the sequential nature of the
task, thus stabilizing the learning process.
Once it has selected a batch, the code gets the current and next states
from each experience in the batch and stores them separately in the states
and next_states lists. These will be used to calculate the predicted Q-values
for the current states and the maximum Q-value for the next states, in
order to update the network.
Next, the code initializes the targets for the Q-value updates (targets)
alongside a mask that will be used to select the relevant Q-values
corresponding to the previously taken actions (targets_mask). The code uses
the TargetNet to evaluate the next states ➋.
Then, for each sample in the batch, the code computes the target Q-
value based on the reward received and, if the game isn’t over, the
maximum Q-value of the next state. The Bellman equation (Equation
13.2) is applied here by calculating the target as the immediate reward
plus the discounted value of the best possible future reward from the next
state. Specifically, the code does this by adding the current reward to the
product of the discount factor γ and the maximum Q-value from the next
state, as predicted by the TargetNet.
The QNet predicts the current Q-values (preds), which are then
multiplied by the mask ➌ to ensure that the subsequent loss computation
focuses only on the Q-values corresponding to the actions actually taken
by the agent, effectively ignoring the Q-values of other actions. This
masking directs the network’s learning only to relevant experiences.
Then the code computes the loss ➍ by comparing these masked
predictions with the target Q-values (targets). Finally, the network weights
are updated using backpropagation ➎.
Updating the TargetNet and Saving the Optimal Weights
Now that you’ve implemented the main training loop, you’re ready to add
the finishing touches to the code so that it periodically synchronizes the
TargetNet with the QNet and saves the QNet weights in a file whenever
the agent achieves a new maximum reward. Listing 13-29 shows how to
do this.

--- Strana 862 ---
--snip--
class DQLAgent(dl.Application):
    --snip--
 
    def __init__(self, tetris, games, epsilon_max, epsilon_min, epsilon_scale, 
                 alpha, gamma, hidden_units, replay_buffer_size, batch_size, 
                 sync_target_game_count, **kwargs):
        --snip--
        self.rewards = np.zeros(games)
        self.max_reward = 0
        self.buffer = []
        self.replay_buffer_size = replay_buffer_size
        self.batch_size = batch_size
        self.sync_target_game_count = sync_target_game_count
        --snip--
    def next_turn(self):
        """Execute the next turn in the game."""
        if self.tetris.gameover:
            self.rewards[self.game] = self.tetris.reward
            if self.game > 0 and self.game % 100 == 0:
                av_reward = np.mean(self.rewards[self.game - 100:self.game])
                print(f"game {self.game}/{self.games} reward {av_reward}")
                if av_reward > self.max_reward:
                 ➊ self.max_reward = av_reward
                 ➋ torch.save(self.q_net.state_dict(), "q_net.pth")
            --snip--
            if self.game + 1 < self.games:
                self.game += 1
                if ((len(self.buffer) >= self.replay_buffer_size)
                    and (self.game % self.sync_target_game_count == 0)):
                 ➌ self.target_net.load_state_dict(self.q_net.state_dict())
                self.tetris.restart()
                self.update_state()
            else:
             ➍ return False  # Finish

--- Strana 863 ---
        else:
            --snip--
Listing 13-29: Updating the TargetNet and saving the optimal weights (by modifying Listing 13-
28)
This code adds the max_reward variable to track the maximum average
reward achieved over a window of 100 games, allowing the agent to
measure improvements in its performance over time. After achieving a
new maximum average reward, the agent updates max_reward with this new
value ➊ and saves the current state of the QNet in the q_net.pth file ➋. It
also adds the sync_target_game_count parameter, which determines how
frequently the TargetNet gets synchronized with the QNet ➌.
This version of the code removes the saving of the Q-table ➍, which
doesn’t exist anymore.
Training the Deep Q-Learning Agent
Finally, train the deep Q-learning agent with Listing 13-30.
qltetris = QLTetris(rows=4, cols=4, max_tiles=50, random_seed=None)
agent = DQLAgent(
    qltetris, games=10_000, epsilon_max=1, epsilon_min=0.001,
    epsilon_scale=5_000, alpha=0.001, gamma=1, hidden_units=[128, 128],
    replay_buffer_size=10_000, batch_size=64, sync_target_game_count=100,
)
while agent.next_turn():
    pass
Listing 13-30: Training the deep Q-learning agent
To begin, this code creates instances of the QLTetris class and the
DQLAgent agent. Then the training loop is executed until the specified
number of games is reached.
To visualize the agent’s learning progress over time, you can plot the
raw rewards and their smoothed average via Listing 13-22. The result
should resemble Figure 13-5.

--- Strana 864 ---
Figure 13-5: The rewards when training a deep Q-learning agent
This plot suggests that the agent has learned a lot. Initially, the
rewards start near –100, the minimum achievable. However, after about
4,000 games, the agent starts to learn from its experience and refines its
policy. The rewards start to steadily increase, with the average reward
reaching around 50. This result would be pretty good for a human player.
While the raw rewards keep fluctuating widely, this can be largely
attributed to the random moves arising from the value of epsilon_min=0.001,
which means that roughly one move out of a thousand is random.
Finally, you can observe the behavior of the trained agent via Listing
13-31.
qltetris.restart()
agent = DQLAgent(
    qltetris, games=3, epsilon_max=0, epsilon_min=0, epsilon_scale=5_000, 

--- Strana 865 ---
    alpha=0.001, gamma=1, hidden_units=[128, 128], replay_buffer_size=10_000, 
    batch_size=64, sync_target_game_count=100,
)
model_state_dict = torch.load("q_net.pth")
agent.q_net.load_state_dict(model_state_dict)
agent.target_net.load_state_dict(model_state_dict)
observe_tetris_with_gui(qltetris, agent)
Listing 13-31: Observing the behavior of the trained deep Q-learning agent
This code resets the game, creates a new deep Q-learning agent, loads
the saved model state into both the QNet and the TargetNet, and lets you
observe how the agent plays the game while using the learned policy.
Importantly, the value of the epsilon-greedy policy is set to zero (by
setting both epsilon_max=0 and epsilon_min=0), so the agent always plays the
best possible move, without randomness. You’ll see the agent playing well
enough to compete with the best human players.
NOTE
Code Example 13-1, “Teaching a Deep Q-Learning Agent to Play
Tetris,” 
is 
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch13_RL folder and then ec13_1_tetris. The
tetris.ipynb notebook provides a complete code example that trains a
deep reinforcement learning model to play Tetris.
EXERCISES
13-6:  Increase the game complexity by changing the board to a
10×20 grid. Note that this would require around 2200 ≈ 1060 states,
which is impossible to even represent with standard Q-learning.
Train a deep Q-learning agent on this new version. Compare its
performance with that of the old version, focusing on how it handles
increased complexity and the differences in its learning and
convergence.

--- Strana 866 ---
13-7:  Use the seven standard Tetrominos to increase tile variety.
Update the reinforcement learning environment and train both the
Q-learning and deep Q-learning agents. Compare their learning
curves, strategies, and highest scores to show that the deep Q-
learning’s neural network approach has better generalization
capabilities.
13-8:  Optimize the deep Q-learning agent’s performance in Tetris
by altering the neural network architecture, learning rates, or epsilon
decay strategy. Analyze the impact on handling random tiles, and
compare the alteration with the original setup to find key factors for
improved performance.
Summary
In this chapter, you explored the fascinating world of reinforcement
learning, a key branch of machine learning that excels in training
computers to make decisions and control systems. You learned the
foundational concepts of reinforcement learning, including how agents
learn to make optimal decisions by interacting with their environment and
adapting their behavior based on a system of rewards and penalties.
You explored Q-learning, a form of reinforcement learning that uses
action-value estimation to guide agents toward the best possible actions in
a given state. You applied these concepts to make a simplified Tetris game,
demonstrating reinforcement learning’s problem-solving and decision-
making capabilities. You explored various game facets, including tile
representation, game-board mechanics, gameplay loops, and scoring
systems. The application of reinforcement learning highlighted its
potential for adaptive system control and continuous performance
enhancement.
The chapter also tackled the challenges of large state-space
environments. To overcome these hurdles, you used deep reinforcement
learning, an advanced variant of Q-learning that combines reinforcement
learning with the generalization power of neural networks to manage
high-dimensional input spaces and complex decision-making scenarios.
These traits are crucial for navigating complex situations with expansive

--- Strana 867 ---
state spaces, possible actions, and eventual outcomes, typical in real-world
scenarios.
Whether it’s mastering games like Tetris or addressing more-complex,
real-life challenges such as autonomous driving, robotics, or financial
trading, the insights and strategies you learned in this chapter will
empower you to solve problems for which adaptive, intelligent control is
paramount.
Seminal Works and Further Reading
The principles of reinforcement learning can be traced back to the work
of Richard Bellman in his 1957 book Dynamic Programming (Princeton
University Press). Bellman introduced the Bellman equation, a key
recursive relationship used to calculate the value of a policy in Markov
decision processes and the basis of many reinforcement learning
algorithms.
In 1988, Richard S. Sutton introduced temporal difference learning,
bridging the gap between dynamic programming and Monte Carlo
methods, in “Learning to Predict by the Methods of Temporal
Differences,” published in Machine Learning (volume 3, pages 9–44).
Temporal difference learning became a key algorithm for training agents
in environments requiring both prediction and control.
In 1992, Christopher J.C.H. Watkins and Peter Dayan introduced the
Q-learning algorithm in “Q-Learning,” published in Machine Learning
(volume 8, pages 279–292). Q-learning is a model-free reinforcement
learning method that enables agents to learn the optimal action-value
function without needing a model of the environment. Q-learning has
become one of the most widely used reinforcement learning methods
because of its simplicity and effectiveness.
In 1999, Sutton et al. introduced policy gradient methods in “Policy
Gradient Methods for Reinforcement Learning with Function
Approximation,” published in Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems (NeurIPS, volume 12). This work made reinforcement learning
applicable to environments with continuous actions by directly optimizing
the policy rather than the value function, extending the applicability of
reinforcement learning to more-complex and high-dimensional scenarios.

--- Strana 868 ---
The integration of deep learning with reinforcement learning took a
major leap in 2013 with “Playing Atari with Deep Reinforcement
Learning” by Volodymyr Mnih et al., published on arXiv (article number
1312.5602) and later presented at NeurIPS 2013. This work introduced
deep Q-networks, which used deep neural networks to approximate Q-
values, allowing agents to play Atari games at a superhuman level. This
marked a breakthrough in the practical implementation of reinforcement
learning and highlighted the potential of combining neural networks with
Q-learning.
A landmark in the application of reinforcement learning was achieved
in 2016 by David Silver et al. in “Mastering the Game of Go with Deep
Neural Networks and Tree Search,” published in Nature (volume 529,
pages 484–489). This work introduced AlphaGo, a reinforcement learning
system that famously defeated the human world champions in the game of
Go. AlphaGo combined deep neural networks with Monte Carlo tree
search, demonstrating the power of reinforcement learning in solving
complex, strategic problems and significantly pushing the boundaries of
AI.
CHALLENGE PROJECTS
13-1: Reinforcement learning to play Space Invasion  Apply
reinforcement learning to the Space Invasion game, as featured in
Python Crash Course by Eric Matthes (No Starch Press, 2023). Adapt
the game to create an environment suitable for a reinforcement
learning agent. Define appropriate states, actions, and rewards that
align with the game’s objectives, such as avoiding enemies, shooting
targets, and maximizing the score. Experiment with both Q-learning
and deep Q-learning techniques, comparing their performance.
13-2: Reinforcement learning to play other games  Implement
and train a reinforcement learning agent to play another classic
game, such as Snake or Pac-Man. Develop the necessary environment
for the game, including state representation, actions, and rewards.

--- Strana 869 ---
Experiment with both traditional Q-learning and deep Q-learning
approaches to assess their effectiveness.
13-3: Transfer reinforcement learning  Investigate the concept
of transfer learning in the context of reinforcement learning. Train a
deep Q-learning agent on Tetris with a specific set of rules or tile
shapes. Then modify the game’s rules or gradually introduce new tile
shapes and observe how the pretrained agent adapts to these
changes. Experiment with retraining the agent on the modified
game, using the pretrained weights as a starting point.
13-4: Impact of various reward functions  Explore the impact of
various reward functions on the learning and performance of a
reinforcement learning agent that plays Tetris. Design and
implement alternative reward functions that emphasize different
aspects of the game, such as clearing multiple lines simultaneously,
maintaining a low stack height, or creating certain patterns. Use
these reward functions to train agents, and then compare the
functions’ strategies and effectiveness. Analyze how the choice of
reward function influences the agent’s behavior and its ability to
master the game.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 870 ---
14
PREDICTING CHAOS WITH RESERVOIR
COMPUTING
In this chapter, you’ll learn about reservoir computing, which comprises
a fixed, randomly generated reservoir of neurons and a trainable output
layer. This unique architecture is particularly good at handling dynamic
systems and chaotic time series, where traditional methods often
struggle.
You’ll explore how reservoir computing can efficiently process
temporal information with minimal training requirements. You’ll also
apply reservoir computing to predict complex time-series data, such as
weather data, stock market prices, and heart-rate variability. By the end
of this chapter, you’ll have gained the theoretical insights and practical
skills necessary to use reservoir computing to tackle the challenges of
dynamic data interpretation.
Introducing Reservoir Computing
The deep learning approaches you’ve explored in previous chapters, like
deep neural networks and backpropagation, often require extensive
training and fine-tuning of numerous parameters. In contrast, reservoir

--- Strana 871 ---
computing simplifies the training process by using a large, fixed network
of randomly generated neurons, called a reservoir.
The reservoir acts as a dynamic memory for sequences of input data,
projecting the input into a higher-dimensional space where patterns
become more distinguishable. The reservoir’s weights aren’t trained.
Instead, a simple readout layer of neurons can be trained to make
predictions or classifications.
The advantage of reservoir computing lies in the simplicity of
training only the output weights, which drastically reduces the
computational burden and avoids the pitfalls of overfitting, common in
deep learning. This setup makes reservoir computing particularly adept
at tasks involving prediction, classification, and recognition of temporal
patterns, offering a robust and efficient alternative for processing
sequences and time series.
The basic idea is to harness the rich dynamics of the reservoir to do
the heavy lifting, allowing the system to learn from the past and
anticipate the future. In other words, the reservoir performs a lot of
complex computations, and then the output layer selects those that are
most useful to solve the problem at hand.
In the rest of this chapter, you’ll apply reservoir computing to
predict the dynamics of a classic example of a chaotic system. In a chaotic
system, or deterministic chaos, small changes in initial conditions can lead
to vastly different outcomes. This phenomenon is known as the butterfly
effect. A chaotic system makes long-term predictions extremely difficult.
Examples of chaotic systems range from weather patterns to financial
markets.
You’ll specifically focus on the Lorenz system, a simplified model of
the weather developed by meteorologist Edward Lorenz in the early
1960s. The model demonstrates how even simple deterministic systems
can exhibit unpredictable and chaotic behavior. You’ll learn how to
construct a reservoir, feed it with data generated from the Lorenz
equations, and finally train a readout layer to forecast the system’s future
states.

--- Strana 872 ---
Defining the Lorenz System
The Lorenz system is a simplified representation of atmospheric
convection; in this process, heat is transferred in the atmosphere
through the movement of air. The Lorenz system is expressed as three
nonlinear and deterministic differential equations depicting chaotic
behavior. These equations describe a 2D fluid layer uniformly warmed
from below and cooled from above, representing the air in the
atmosphere.
The Lorenz system has three variables: x is proportional to the rate
of convection, y represents the horizontal temperature variation, and z
corresponds to the vertical temperature variation. The Lorenz equations
describe how these variables evolve over time:
The parameters σ, ρ, and β represent physical aspects of the fluid: σ
represents the rate of return to equilibrium in the absence of
convection; ρ is related to the temperature difference between the
bottom and top of the fluid layer; and β is linked with physical
dimensions of the fluid layer. These parameters are crucial in
determining the system’s behavior, highlighting the interplay between
fluid dynamics, temperature variations, and length scales.
The Lorenz system is famous for its Lorenz attractor, a butterfly-
shaped pattern formed by its set of chaotic solutions, which you’ll re-
create in the following sections. This attractor illustrates the concept of
the butterfly effect.
Numerically Integrating the Lorenz System
In this section, you’ll first calculate the numerical solution of the Lorenz
system. Then you’ll use that solution to predict the system’s time
dx
dt
= σ (y −x)
dy
dt
= x (ρ −z) −y     (14.1)
dz
dt
= xy −βz

--- Strana 873 ---
evolution, or how the system’s state changes over time, governed by its
underlying dynamic equations.
The Lorenz system can be numerically calculated by integrating it
step-by-step through a finite difference approach that approximates the
continuous time derivatives in the Lorenz equations based on discrete
differences over small time intervals. In this method, the state of the
system at a future time is estimated based on its current state and the
rate of change at the current time. Specifically, for a small time step Δt,
you can express the updates as follows:
Here, xn, yn, and zn represent the state variables at the nth time step, and
xn+1, yn+1, and zn+1 are the state variables at the subsequent time step.
You have to carefully choose Δt: Too large a time step can lead to
instability and inaccurate results, while too small a time step can lead to
excessive computational cost. Unfortunately, there aren’t explicit recipes
to choose the right Δt; you have to determine it by trial and error.
NOTE
More-sophisticated methods like the Runge-Kutta algorithms can
provide better accuracy and stability for integrating systems like the
Lorenz system, especially when dealing with its chaotic behavior.
To perform the numerical integration, start by implementing the
lorenz_step() function to calculate a single step in the time evolution of
the model, as shown in Listing 14-1.
def lorenz_step(t, x, y, z, dt, sigma, rho, beta):
    """Calculate the next step in the Lorenz system."""
    dx = sigma * (y - x) * dt
    dy = (x * (rho - z) - y) * dt
xn+1 = xn + Δt ⋅σ (yn −xn)
yn+1
= yn + Δt ⋅(xn(ρ −zn) −yn)     (14.2)
zn+1
= zn + Δt ⋅(xyyn −βzn)

--- Strana 874 ---
    dz = (x * y - beta * z) * dt
    return t + dt, x + dx, y + dy, z + dz
Listing 14-1: The function to propagate the Lorenz system one step
This function first calculates the increments of the Lorenz system
variables (namely, dx, dy, and dz) and then sums them up to the initial
state of the model, while also returning the corresponding updated
time.
You can then iterate this function to obtain trajectories starting from
specified initial conditions, using the lorenz() function shown in Listing
14-2.
import numpy as np
def lorenz(t0, x0, y0, z0, dt, sigma, rho, beta, iter_num):
    """Calculate the evolution of the Lorenz system."""
    t, x, y, z = [np.zeros(iter_num + 1) for _ in range(4)]
    t[0], x[0], y[0], z[0] = t0, x0, y0, z0
    for i in range(iter_num):
        t[i + 1], x[i + 1], y[i + 1], z[i + 1] = \
            lorenz_step(t[i], x[i], y[i], z[i], dt, sigma, rho, beta)
    return t, x, y, z
Listing 14-2: The function to obtain a trajectory for the Lorenz system
This function preallocates some NumPy arrays for the trajectory,
sets their initial values, and runs a loop to calculate iter_num time steps.
Finally, use this function to calculate the evolution of the Lorenz
system for certain initial conditions, as shown in Listing 14-3.
t, x, y, z = lorenz(t0=0, x0=1, y0=1, z0=1, dt=0.01, 
                    sigma=10, rho=28, beta=8 / 3, iter_num=5_000)
Listing 14-3: Integrating the Lorenz system
This code sets the values of the sigma, rho, and beta constants to those
originally used by Lorenz.
Visualizing Time Evolution

--- Strana 875 ---
You can plot the time evolution of the Lorenz system via Listing 14-4.
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
fig, axs = plt.subplots(3, 1, figsize=(8, 6), sharex=True)  
axs[0].plot(t, x, "k--", lw=1.1, label="x")
axs[0].set_ylabel("x")
axs[0].legend()
axs[1].plot(t, y, "k--", lw=1.1, label="y")
axs[1].set_ylabel("y")
axs[1].legend()
axs[2].plot(t, z, "k--", lw=1.1, label="z")
axs[2].set_ylabel("z")
axs[2].legend()
axs[2].set_xlabel("Time Step")
plt.tight_layout()
plt.show()
Listing 14-4: Plotting the time evolution of the Lorenz system
This code plots Figure 14-1, which shows the time evolution of the
x, y, and z state variables in the Lorenz system.

--- Strana 876 ---
Figure 14-1: The time evolution of the Lorenz system
In the top plot, the variable x oscillates over time, displaying a
pattern that switches between high and low values with no apparent
regularity, suggesting the chaotic nature of the system. In the middle
plot, the variable y features similar behavior with irregular oscillations,
but with a different pattern and frequency, indicating the complex
relationship between the variables. In the bottom plot, the variable z
also features chaotic behavior, with its own distinct amplitude and
frequency of oscillations.
The fluctuations in the values of x, y, and z are a graphical
representation of the system’s inherent unpredictability. Despite the
deterministic nature of the underlying equations, each variable

--- Strana 877 ---
influences the others in a dynamic interplay, resulting in the complex,
aperiodic patterns captured by these time-series plots.
Visualizing the Lorenz Attractor
Instead of looking at the time evolution of the three individual variables,
you can plot the trajectory of the state of the Lorenz system in the 3D
space represented by its variables (which is known as a phase-space plot).
This approach reveals the Lorenz attractor, a captivating geometric
shape that illustrates the complex and chaotic behavior of the system.
This attractor provides a more holistic view of the system’s dynamics
than the earlier time-series plots.
You can use Listing 14-5 to plot the Lorenz attractor.
fig = plt.figure()
ax = fig.add_subplot(projection="3d")
ax.plot(x, y, z, "k--", lw=0.5)
ax.set_xlabel("X Axis")
ax.set_ylabel("Y Axis")
ax.set_zlabel("Z Axis")
plt.show()
Listing 14-5: Plotting the Lorenz attractor
This code produces Figure 14-2.

--- Strana 878 ---
Figure 14-2: The Lorenz attractor
The 3D trajectory of the Lorenz attractor forms a distinctive,
nonrepeating pattern with two main lobes (or wings) that appear to be
mirrored images of each other. These lobes are where the system’s state
tends to reside the most, creating a butterfly, or figure-eight, pattern as
the trajectory spirals outward before looping back.
Despite its complex structure, the trajectory of the Lorenz attractor
never intersects itself, demonstrating the system’s deterministic nature
(at any given point, the Lorenz system’s equations have a unique
solution). The path traced by the attractor shows how the system
evolves over time, swinging from one lobe to the other unpredictably,
which is a classic example of deterministic chaos.

--- Strana 879 ---
EXERCISES
14-1:  Alter the parameters of the Lorenz system (σ, ρ, and β) one
at a time and visualize how each change affects the Lorenz
attractor. What role does each parameter play in the system’s
dynamics?
14-2:  Extend the simulation of the Lorenz system to a much
longer time scale. Do the trajectories settle into a pattern, or do
they continue to exhibit chaotic behavior indefinitely?
14-3:  Modify the initial conditions of the Lorenz system
simulation to observe how different starting points affect the
resulting trajectory and Lorenz attractor.
14-4:  Investigate the impact of different time-step lengths on
the numerical solution of the Lorenz equations. How and why do
the trajectories and Lorenz attractor change? What is the largest
time step that still provides a stable and accurate solution?
Demonstrating the Butterfly Effect
Now let’s introduce a minimal change to the initial conditions and
repeat the previous calculations. This will demonstrate the chaotic
nature of the Lorenz system and its sensitivity to initial conditions,
popularly known as the butterfly effect.
Alter the value of one of the initial conditions from Listing 14-3:
t_a, x_a, y_a, z_a = lorenz(t0=0, x0=1 + 0.000_001, y0=1, z0=1, dt=0.01, 
                            sigma=10, rho=28, beta=8 / 3, iter_num=5_000)
Here, a very small amount is added to the initial condition for the x
variable. (Altering the value of some of the other initial conditions
would yield qualitatively similar results.)

--- Strana 880 ---
Then plot the resulting trajectories, adapting Listing 14-4 as shown
in Listing 14-6.
--snip--
axs[0].plot(t, x, "k--", lw=1.1, label="x")
axs[0].plot(t_a, x_a, color="cyan", lw=0.9, label="x_a")
--snip--
axs[1].plot(t, y, "k--", lw=1.1, label="y")
axs[1].plot(t_a, y_a, color="cyan", lw=0.9, label="y_a")
--snip--
axs[2].plot(t, z, "k--", lw=1.1, label="z")
axs[2].plot(t_a, z_a, color="cyan", lw=0.9, label="z_a")
--snip--
Listing 14-6: Plotting the time evolution of the Lorenz system with a slightly perturbed initial
condition (by modifying Listing 14-4)
This code plots the original trajectories as well as those with the
slightly perturbed initial condition, producing Figure 14-3.

--- Strana 881 ---
Figure 14-3: The time evolution of the Lorenz system with slightly perturbed initial
conditions
This figure plots both the original (dashed lines, x, y, and z) and
perturbed (solid lines, x_a, y_a, and z_a) trajectories. Initially, the
trajectories of the perturbed and original variables remain close,
indicating a low rate of separation. However, as time progresses, the
separation increases.
The rate at which the trajectories diverge relates to Lyapunov
exponents, which measure the rates at which nearby trajectories in a
dynamic system diverge or converge. A positive Lyapunov exponent is
indicative of chaos, signifying that two infinitesimally close trajectories
will diverge exponentially over time. The greater the exponent, the
more sensitive the system, and the more quickly the initially close states
will diverge.

--- Strana 882 ---
From the plots, you can infer that the Lorenz system has at least one
positive Lyapunov exponent because the perturbed trajectories diverge
exponentially from the original ones over time. The rate at which the
two trajectories diverge can be used to estimate the largest Lyapunov
exponent for the Lorenz system, although for an accurate calculation, a
more rigorous mathematical analysis would be required.
You can also plot the Lorenz attractor with Listing 14-7.
--snip--
ax.plot(x, y, z, "k--", lw=0.5, label="original")
ax.plot(x_a, y_a, z_a, color="cyan", lw=0.5, label="perturbed")
ax.legend()
--snip--
Listing 14-7: Plotting the Lorenz attractor with slightly perturbed initial conditions (by
modifying Listing 14-5)
Figure 14-4 shows the resulting attractor.

--- Strana 883 ---
Figure 14-4: The Lorenz attractor with slightly perturbed initial conditions
You can see the Lorenz system’s sensitivity to initial conditions as
well as its intrinsic deterministic nature. Because of the minute
difference in the initial conditions, represented by the original and
perturbed trajectories, the two paths evolve distinctly over time,
illustrating the chaotic behavior inherent in the system. Remarkably,
though, both trajectories converge to the same Lorenz attractor, as you
can tell by the two trajectories occupying the same space, a feature that
highlights the deterministic aspect of this chaotic system.
This convergence suggests that while the system’s short-term
behavior is highly sensitive and unpredictable because of its dependence
on initial conditions, its long-term dynamics are confined to a specific
set of patterns and structures, represented by the Lorenz attractor. This
duality—of sensitivity in the short term and determinism in the long

--- Strana 884 ---
term—underscores the complex and fascinating nature of chaotic
systems, where unpredictability and order coexist.
EXERCISE
14-5:  The Lyapunov exponent measures the rate at which
nearby trajectories in a dynamic system diverge over time. A
positive Lyapunov exponent indicates sensitive dependence on
initial conditions, meaning that small differences in starting points
lead to exponentially growing divergence; this is a hallmark of
chaotic systems. Estimate the largest Lyapunov exponent of the
Lorenz system, using the divergence of two closely started
trajectories over time. Implement a computational approach to
approximate the Lyapunov exponent and discuss the implications
of your findings for the predictability of the system.
Implementing a Reservoir Computer
You’re now ready to use reservoir computing to model and predict the
behavior of the Lorenz system. You’ll first define the size and topology
of your reservoir and then initialize the input and reservoir matrices
with appropriate scaling. Next, you’ll generate data from the Lorenz
system to serve as your training and validation datasets.
The training phase adapts the output weights to map the reservoir
states to the desired output by using a regularized least squares method.
After the training, you’ll exploit the reservoir’s capability to predict the
future states of the Lorenz system, thereby testing the efficacy of your
reservoir computer.
Finally, you’ll visualize and compare the reservoir’s predictions
against the actual Lorenz system dynamics.
Setting Up the Reservoir

--- Strana 885 ---
Figure 14-5 shows the architecture of the reservoir computer you’ll use
to predict the Lorenz system.
Figure 14-5: The architecture of a reservoir computer for the Lorenz system
The reservoir receives three inputs corresponding to the Lorenz
system variables x, y, and z. The reservoir consists of a network of
randomly connected neurons. This complex interconnectivity enables
the reservoir to process the input signals and predict their temporal
evolution. The three outputs correspond to the predicted values of the
Lorenz system variables, encapsulating the essence of the dynamic
system’s behavior.
Input Weights
To implement this reservoir computer, start by defining the connections
between the inputs and the reservoir with Listing 14-8.
dim_system = 3
dim_reservoir = 300
edge_probability = 0.1
W_in = 2 * edge_probability * (np.random.rand(dim_reservoir, dim_system) - 0.5)
Listing 14-8: Defining the reservoir input
This code defines the constants for the dimension of the Lorenz
systems (dim_system), the dimension of the reservoir with 300 neurons

--- Strana 886 ---
(dim_reservoir), and the probability of each possible edge between
neurons (edge_probability). Then the input weight matrix (W_in) is
initialized with random values.
Reservoir State and Weights
You can then initialize the state of the reservoir with Listing 14-9.
reservoir_state = np.zeros(dim_reservoir)
Listing 14-9: Defining the reservoir state
This code sets the states of all neurons in the reservoir to zero.
GRAPH THEORY
To understand the initialization of the reservoir weights, it’s
helpful to have a basic understanding of some key concepts of
graph theory, a field of mathematics that studies the properties of
graphs.
A graph is a collection of nodes with edges that connect pairs of
nodes. In the context of reservoir computing, each node represents
a neuron, and each edge represents a connection between neurons.
An edge can be assigned a weight that represents the strength of
the connection between two nodes.
A random graph has connections and weights that are generated
by a random process. An adjacency matrix is a square matrix used to
represent a finite graph. The elements of the matrix indicate
whether pairs of nodes are connected (adjacent) in the graph.
The eigenvalues of a matrix are a set of values that give
important information about the properties of the matrix. The
spectral radius of a matrix is the largest absolute value of its
eigenvalues. In reservoir computing, controlling the spectral radius
of the reservoir’s adjacency matrix (which represents the

--- Strana 887 ---
connection weights) is crucial to ensure that the reservoir’s
dynamic behavior is appropriate to process inputs.
Now you’re ready to define the connections between the neurons in
the reservoir. You’ll model the reservoir’s random connectivity by using
a random graph, represented as an adjacency matrix. You’ll define the
weights between neurons in the reservoir. Then you’ll adjust the
spectral radius of the adjacency matrix to control the reservoir’s
dynamics; this latter step ensures that the reservoir can effectively
process and learn from the input data. Let’s do this using Listing 14-10.
   import networkx as nx
   scaling_factor = 1.1
   graph = nx.gnp_random_graph(dim_reservoir, edge_probability)
   graph = nx.to_numpy_array(graph)
➊ A = 2 * (np.random.rand(dim_reservoir, dim_reservoir) - 0.5) * graph
   eigenvalues, _ = np.linalg.eig(A)
➋ A = A / np.absolute(np.amax(eigenvalues)) * scaling_factor
Listing 14-10: Defining the reservoir connections
This code generates a random graph to represent the reservoir’s
structure, using the gnp_random_graph() function from the NetworkX
toolbox for graph theory. This function generates a graph where each
possible edge between neurons is included with a probability given by
edge_probability defined in Listing 14-8. Then the function converts the
graph to an adjacency matrix held in a NumPy array, using the
to_numpy_array() function from NetworkX.
Finally, the code initializes the reservoir’s adjacency matrix with
random weights ➊, computes its eigenvalues, and scales it to control its
spectral radius ➋. The spectral radius directly influences the reservoir’s
dynamics, determining how quickly signals dissipate or amplify within
the network. By controlling the spectral radius (typically, keeping it
slightly below 1), you ensure that the reservoir is neither too stable
(where signals decay too quickly) nor too chaotic (where signals amplify

--- Strana 888 ---
uncontrollably), allowing it to exhibit rich, yet manageable, dynamic
behavior. This balance is key for effective temporal pattern processing.
Output Weights
Next, you can initialize the output weights with Listing 14-11.
W_out = np.zeros((dim_system, dim_reservoir))
Listing 14-11: Defining the output weights
This code initializes the weights of the output layer to zero.
Preparing the Training and Validation Data
To train your reservoir computer, you need a substantial amount of data
that captures the complex dynamics of the Lorenz system. To obtain it,
generate a long Lorenz trajectory and split it into training and
validation data, as shown in Listing 14-12.
   iter_num = 10_000
   t, x, y, z = lorenz(t0=0, x0=1, y0=1, z0=1, dt=0.01, 
                       sigma=10, rho=28, beta=8 / 3, iter_num=iter_num)
   xyz = list(zip(x, y, z))
   split_ratio = 0.50
   split_idx = int(iter_num * split_ratio)
➊ t_train, xyz_train = t[:split_idx], np.array(xyz[:split_idx])
➋ t_val, xyz_val = t[split_idx:], np.array(xyz[split_idx:])
Listing 14-12: Generating a long Lorenz trajectory for training and validation
This code uses the lorenz() function to simulate a trajectory long
enough to represent the Lorenz system’s chaotic behavior across its
phase space. Then the x, y, and z coordinate lists are combined into a
single list of 3-tuples.
Once the trajectory is generated, the code divides it into training
and validation sets. The split_ratio parameter determines the proportion

--- Strana 889 ---
of data allocated for training ➊, while the remaining data is used for
validation ➋.
Training the Reservoir Computer
You’re finally ready to train the reservoir to emulate the dynamics of the
Lorenz system.
Deriving the Mathematical Formulas
This section covers technical mathematical details that are essential for
understanding the theoretical background of the methods used.
However, if you prefer to focus on the practical implementation, feel
free to skip this section and go directly to the following sections, which
include code examples and applications.
The objective of the training is to find the output weights Wout that
minimize the regularized MSE between the predicted and actual
outputs.
Denote with R = [r0, . . . , rt–1, rt] the matrix of reservoir states,
where each column rt represents the reservoir state at a specific time
step. The update of the reservoir state is given by
where A is the reservoir matrix, Win is the input weight matrix, and xt is
the training input at time t.
The goal is to solve the regularized least squares problem
where X is the matrix of training outputs, λ is the regularization factor,
and ∥ · ∥2 denotes the Frobenius norm, which measures the size of a
matrix as the square root of the sum of the absolute squares of its
elements.
rt = Sigmoid (Art−1 + Winxt)     (14.3)
Wout = arg min
W ∥X −R⊤W∥
2 + λ∥W∥2     (14.4)

--- Strana 890 ---
In Equation 14.4, the regularization factor λ plays a critical role in
balancing the model’s fit to the training data with the model’s
complexity. A higher value of λ penalizes larger weights more severely,
thus helping to prevent overfitting and ensuring the model’s
generalization to new data.
The solution of Equation 14.4 is derived by differentiating the
regularized least squares objective function with respect to the weight
matrix W, setting the derivative equal to 0 to find the minimum, and
solving for Wout. This process finally yields the formula for the output
weights
where I is the identity matrix.
Implementing a Numerically Stable Sigmoid Function
Before training the reservoir, you need to implement a version of the
sigmoid function that carefully handles large positive and negative input
values. This is needed to prevent issues with floating-point arithmetic
overflow, common in the standard sigmoid function for extreme input
values. You can implement it as shown in Listing 14-13.
def sigmoid(x):
    """Compute the sigmoid function for the input array."""
    return np.where(x >= 0, 1 / (1 + np.exp(-x)), np.exp(x) / (1 + np.exp(x)))
Listing 14-13: The numerically stable sigmoid function
This implementation of the sigmoid function enhances numerical
stability by handling large positive and negative values of x differently
when x is nonnegative or negative.
Implementing the Training
With the activation function in place, you can train the reservoir
computer with Listing 14-14.
Wout = (X⊤R⊤)(RR⊤+ λI)
−1     (14.5)

--- Strana 891 ---
R = np.zeros((dim_reservoir, xyz_train.shape[0]))
for i in range(xyz_train.shape[0]):
    R[:, i] = reservoir_state
    reservoir_state = sigmoid(np.dot(A, reservoir_state) 
                              + np.dot(W_in, xyz_train[i]))
Rt = np.transpose(R)
regularization_factor = 0.0001
inverse_part = np.linalg.inv(np.dot(R, Rt) 
                          ➊ + regularization_factor * np.identity(R.shape[0]))
W_out = np.dot(np.dot(xyz_train.T, Rt), inverse_part)
Listing 14-14: Training the reservoir computer
This code starts by initializing the matrix R to record the evolving
internal states of the reservoir over time, capturing its dynamic response
to the training inputs. The dimensions of R are the reservoir’s size by the
length of the training data.
In the subsequent for loop, each column of R is filled with the current
reservoir state, providing a snapshot of the reservoir at each time step.
Then the reservoir_state is updated (implementing Equation 14.3). This
update applies the sigmoid function to a linear combination of the
current reservoir state (multiplied by the reservoir matrix A) and the
current training input (multiplied by the input weight matrix W_in).
Thanks to the sigmoid function, this step nonlinearly transforms the
inputs and the current state of the reservoir to produce the next state,
introducing some complex dynamics.
After populating R, the code calculates its transpose, Rt, and defines a
regularization factor. With these elements in place, the code calculates
the inverse part of the regularized least squares solution. This is done by
taking the inverse of the matrix product of R and Rt, added to the
product of the regularization factor and an identity matrix to ensure
numerical stability ➊. This inverse part plays a crucial role in finding a
balance between fitting the training data and maintaining model
simplicity, enhancing generalization and reducing the risk of overfitting.
Finally, the code computes the output weight matrix W_out (Equation
14.5). This is done by first multiplying the transpose of the training data

--- Strana 892 ---
with Rt and then multiplying this result with inverse_part. The resulting
W_out matrix, which is fine-tuned through this process, represents the
trained weights of the reservoir computer. These weights map the
reservoir states to the training outputs in a way that minimizes the
regularized MSE between the predicted and actual outputs. The output
layer now effectively translates the complex internal dynamics of the
reservoir into the desired output, completing the training phase.
Note that the training process of the reservoir computer is entirely
deterministic, distinguishing it from the other deep learning techniques
you’ve seen in the previous chapters that often rely on stochastic
elements such as random initialization or dropout during training.
Instead, in the reservoir computer approach, the initial conditions and
the structure of the reservoir are fixed, and the only adaptation occurs
through the deterministic optimization of the output weights W_out based
on the provided training data. This deterministic nature ensures that the
training process can be replicated precisely, yielding the same output
weights, given the same training data and reservoir configuration.
One advantage of this deterministic training is its potential for
simpler and more interpretable models. Since the optimization process
is straightforward, analyzing and understanding the relationship
between the input data and the trained weights can be easier. Moreover,
the absence of random elements in the training can lead to faster
convergence and reduce the need for extensive hyperparameter tuning
typically associated with stochastic training methods.
However, there are also disadvantages to consider. The deterministic
nature means that the reservoir computer model may not explore the
full range of possible solutions that could be discovered through
stochastic processes, potentially limiting its ability to model very
complex patterns or to generalize beyond the training data. Additionally,
the fixed structure of the reservoir may not be suitable for all types of
problems, and significant expertise may be required to design a reservoir
that captures the nuances of a particular dataset or task.
Predicting the Lorenz System

--- Strana 893 ---
Now you can use the trained reservoir computer to predict the
evolution of the Lorenz system with Listing 14-15.
steps_to_be_predicted = len(xyz_val)
xyz_pred = np.zeros((steps_to_be_predicted, dim_system))
for i in range(steps_to_be_predicted):
 ➊ xyz_pred[i] = np.dot(W_out, reservoir_state)
    reservoir_state = sigmoid(np.dot(A, reservoir_state) 
                              + np.dot(W_in, xyz_pred[i]))
Listing 14-15: Predicting the behavior of the Lorenz system with the trained reservoir
computer
This code initializes the xyz_pred array to store the predicted states of
the system, with dimensions corresponding to the number of steps to be
predicted by the dimensionality of the system.
In the for loop, the reservoir computer makes predictions for each
time step. For each iteration, the current prediction is obtained by
multiplying the trained output weight matrix with the current reservoir
state ➊. This step essentially transforms the internal state of the
reservoir into the predicted system state.
After generating the prediction, the reservoir_state is updated for the
next time step. This update is similar to the training phase: The sigmoid
activation function is applied to a linear combination of the updated
reservoir state (multiplied by the reservoir matrix) and the just-
predicted system state (multiplied by the input weight matrix). This step
ensures that the reservoir state evolves based on both its previous state
and the new input derived from the latest prediction.
This process is repeated for all time steps in the validation set,
allowing the reservoir computer to generate a sequence of predictions
that model the behavior of the Lorenz system over time.
Evaluating the Performance of the Reservoir Computer
Let’s examine the effectiveness of the reservoir computer by juxtaposing
its predictions against the actual Lorenz system outputs. This

--- Strana 894 ---
comparison is critical to understanding the accuracy of the reservoir
computer in capturing the complex dynamics of chaotic systems.
For convenience, you can use
x_val, y_val, z_val = xyz_val[:, 0], xyz_val[:, 1], xyz_val[:, 2]
x_pred, y_pred, z_pred = xyz_pred[:, 0], xyz_pred[:, 1], xyz_pred[:, 2]
to extract the validation dataset’s individual components and the
predicted outcomes from the reservoir computer.
Comparing Trajectories
You can then compare the actual and predicted trajectories of each
variable over time, using Listing 14-16.
--snip--
axs[0].plot(t_val, x_val, "k--", lw=1.1, label="x Lorenz")
axs[0].plot(t_val, x_pred, color="orange", lw=0.9, label="x prediction")
--snip--
axs[1].plot(t_val, y_val, "k--", lw=1.1, label="y Lorenz")
axs[1].plot(t_val, y_pred, color="orange", lw=0.9, label="y prediction")
--snip--
axs[2].plot(t_val, z_val, "k--", lw=1.1, label="z Lorenz")
axs[2].plot(t_val, z_pred, color="orange", lw=0.9, label="z prediction")
--snip--
Listing 14-16: Plotting the comparison of the time evolution for the validation and predicted
trajectories (by modifying Listing 14-6)
The plot should be similar to Figure 14-6, providing a comparison
of the actual Lorenz system trajectories and the predictions made by the
reservoir computer, across the three dimensions of the system.

--- Strana 895 ---
Figure 14-6: Comparison of the time evolution for the validation and predicted trajectories
Initially, the predicted trajectories align closely with the true Lorenz
system, indicating that the reservoir computer has captured the system’s
dynamics well during this phase. However, as time progresses, the
predicted paths begin to diverge from the actual trajectories. This
divergence highlights the inherent difficulty in predicting chaotic
systems over longer time horizons because of their sensitive dependence
on initial conditions. This phenomenon, quantified by Lyapunov
exponents, measures the rate of separation of infinitesimally close
trajectories.
Despite this deviation, the overall shapes and patterns of the
predicted trajectories suggest that the reservoir computer still retains

--- Strana 896 ---
some understanding of the Lorenz system’s underlying dynamics, but
the accuracy of its predictions decreases over time. This happens when
the Lyapunov exponents are positive, indicating sensitive dependence
on initial conditions and leading to an exponential growth of prediction
errors.
Comparing Lorenz Attractors
To verify whether the reservoir computing model has effectively learned
the underlying dynamics of the Lorenz system, you can create a 3D plot
to visualize the Lorenz attractor, using Listing 14-17.
--snip--
ax.plot(x_val, y_val, z_val, "k--", lw=0.5, label="Lorenz system")
ax.plot(x_pred, y_pred, z_pred, lw=0.5, color="orange", label="prediction")
--snip--
Listing 14-17: Plotting the Lorenz attractor with validation and predicted trajectories (by
modifying Listing 14-7)
This code should generate a plot similar to Figure 14-7.

--- Strana 897 ---
Figure 14-7: Comparison of the Lorenz attractor obtained with validation and predicted
trajectories
You can see that the reservoir computer successfully replicates the
unique geometry of the Lorenz attractor, demonstrating an
understanding of the Lorenz system’s chaotic behavior. The similarity in
the attractor’s shape within the 3D representation implies that the
model has internalized the fundamental dynamics sufficiently to mimic
the attractor’s form, which is a central aspect of the Lorenz system’s
dynamics.
Thus, even as individual trajectories inevitably part ways over time,
reflecting their innate sensitivity to initial conditions, the overall pattern
of the attractor prevails. This suggests that the model can be used to
forecast the qualitative features of the system’s behavior over the long
term, despite the inherent challenges of accurate long-range forecasting

--- Strana 898 ---
in chaotic systems. Therefore, the model’s consistency in capturing the
attractor’s topology reflects its ability to understand the underlying
dynamics of the Lorenz system despite its chaotic nature.
NOTE
Code Example 14-1, “Training a Reservoir Computer to Predict the
Lorenz 
System,” 
is 
available 
at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse.
Navigate to the Ch14_RC folder and then ec14_1_lorenz. The
lorenz.ipynb notebook provides a complete code example that trains a
reservoir computer to predict the evolution of the Lorenz system.
EXERCISES
14-6:  Investigate the sensitivity of the reservoir computer to its
hyperpara-meters. Vary the size of the reservoir, the edge
probability, and the scaling factor, and observe how these changes
affect the model’s ability to predict the Lorenz system. Which are
the most critical parameters and their optimal values?
14-7:  Assess the robustness of the reservoir computer to noisy
input data. Introduce varying levels of noise to the Lorenz system
data and evaluate the reservoir computer’s predictive performance.
Determine the noise threshold at which its predictions begin to
significantly diverge from the true system’s behavior.
14-8:  Experiment with different structures of the reservoir.
Replace the random graph with structured alternatives, like small-
world or scale-free graphs, and measure how these changes affect
the performance.
Summary

--- Strana 899 ---
In this chapter, you learned about reservoir computing, a paradigm
within machine learning that is tailored to deal with complex temporal
data. You learned the fundamental concepts that differentiate reservoir
computing from other neural network frameworks, like its fixed
reservoir of neurons. You also saw how the architecture of reservoir
computing simplifies the training process by deterministically adjusting
only the output weights, leaving the reservoir’s internal structure
unchanged.
You then put theory into practice by constructing a reservoir to
generate a trajectory of the Lorenz system. Training the reservoir, you
saw how the model learned to replicate the chaotic trajectory of the
Lorenz system. You also compared the reservoir computer’s predictions
with the actual behavior of the Lorenz system, using both time-series
plots and a 3D representation of the Lorenz attractor. This comparison
validated your model, while also highlighting the power of reservoir
computing in capturing the underlying laws governing complex
systems.
As this chapter ends, you are now equipped with a deep
understanding of reservoir computing and its unique place in the world
of neural networks. This knowledge will be invaluable as you continue
to explore and apply machine learning techniques to ever more
challenging problems.
Seminal Works and Further Reading
The foundation for recurrent neural networks and reservoir computing
was laid by John J. Hopfield in his seminal 1982 paper “Neural
Networks and Physical Systems with Emergent Collective
Computational Abilities,” published in Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences (volume 79, pages 2,554–2,558). Hopfield introduced
Hopfield networks, a form of recurrent neural network with feedback
connections. He demonstrated how these networks could settle into
stable states that could be used for associative memory tasks. This work
paved the way for understanding how dynamics and attractor states
could be used in neural computation, and it influenced later

--- Strana 900 ---
developments in both recurrent neural networks and reservoir
computing models such as echo state networks and liquid state
machines. Hopfield was awarded a share of the 2024 Nobel Prize in
Physics for his pioneering work on neural networks.
A major step forward for reservoir computing came in 2004 with
“Harnessing Nonlinearity: Predicting Chaotic Systems and Saving
Energy in Wireless Communication” by Herbert Jaeger and Harald
Haas, published in Science (volume 304, pages 78–80). They expanded
the application of echo state networks to practical problems such as
predicting chaotic time series and optimizing energy use in wireless
communication. This work was one of the first to show that reservoir
computing could be competitive with other machine learning methods
in real-world tasks, bridging the gap between theoretical exploration
and practical implementation.
CHALLENGE PROJECTS
14-1: Forecasting with reservoir computing  Build and train a
reservoir computer to forecast a time series generated by a system
other than the Lorenz system. Suggestions include the Rössler
system (another chaotic system with distinct dynamic properties
that can be used to test the ability of the reservoir to capture
different types of chaotic behavior) or the Mackey–Glass equation (a
delayed differential equation known for its complex, chaotic time-
series output often used as a benchmark in time-series prediction
tasks). Compare the performance of the reservoir computing
model with a standard recurrent neural network on the same task
to evaluate the effectiveness of the reservoir computing approach
in capturing the dynamics of various complex systems.
14-2: Reservoir computing for real-world data  Apply
reservoir computing to a real-world temporal dataset, such as stock
market prices that can be obtained from financial databases like
Yahoo! Finance or Google Finance, or weather data that can be

--- Strana 901 ---
accessed through APIs provided by services such as
OpenWeatherMap or NOAA Climate Data Online. Process the
data, train the reservoir, and evaluate its predictive accuracy.
Compare the results with alternative methods, such as recurrent
neural networks, to highlight the strengths and weaknesses of
reservoir computing in practical applications.
14-3: Memory capacity of reservoir computers  Investigate
the memory capacity of a reservoir computing system. Memory
capacity refers to the ability to retain and utilize historical input
information for future computations. Design experiments to
quantitatively measure the memory capacity of the reservoir by
assessing its performance on tasks that require retaining
information over different time spans. For instance, you can use
the echo state property as a metric, which involves presenting the
reservoir with a random input signal and then measuring how well
the system can reproduce this signal after a certain number of time
steps. Analyze how different reservoir configuration parameters,
such as the size, connectivity, and spectral radius of the reservoir,
affect the memory capacity. Compare the results with theoretical
bounds on memory capacity for reservoir computing systems.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 902 ---
CONCLUSION
Congratulations on making it to the end of this book!
By now, you’ve successfully navigated the world of deep learning and
mastered a wide array of concepts and techniques, from the
fundamentals of dense neural networks to advanced topics like GANs,
transformers, and reservoir computing. You’ve learned to build and train
complex models, you understand the theoretical underpinnings of
various architectures, and you know how to apply them to practical
tasks. With the hands-on experience you’ve gained through each
project, you now have the skills to tackle real-world problems by using
deep learning, setting you up for continued growth and exploration in
the field of AI.
But this is just the beginning. Now it’s time to experiment and
innovate. Use the knowledge and skills you’ve acquired to work on your
own projects. Apply deep learning to new datasets and challenges, and
explore creative ways to improve existing models.
Staying updated is crucial in this rapidly evolving field. You can
follow the latest research by reading academic journals like Nature
Machine Intelligence or IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning
Systems. Likewise, check the articles submitted to conferences such as
NeurIPS, ICML, and CVPR to learn about cutting-edge developments.
Most of these papers are available for free through open access

--- Strana 903 ---
repositories like arXiv (https://arxiv.org). Participating in online
communities like Reddit’s r/MachineLearning, Stack Overflow, and
specialized forums can also keep you informed and connected.
In addition, consider diving deeper into specific areas of interest.
You can find extensive resources on specialized topics such as computer
vision, natural language processing, or reinforcement learning across
various online platforms. Websites like arXiv provide open access
research papers, while platforms such as Coursera, edX, and Udacity
offer specialized courses. Furthermore, repositories like GitHub host
numerous open source projects and code implementations that can help
you explore these topics hands-on. Reading seminal papers and
textbooks in these areas can also provide you with deeper insights.
Finally, collaboration and contribution can provide new insights,
foster innovation, and expand your network—all vital for growth. Join
deep learning communities, contribute to open source projects, and
team up with others. Document your projects and share them on
platforms like GitHub. A strong portfolio will showcase your skills and
help you connect with potential collaborators and employers.
The world of AI and deep learning is vast and full of opportunities.
The mastery you’ve gained from this book has positioned you at the
forefront of this field, and it can become your gateway to a future of
innovation and discovery. Stay curious, keep learning, and continue
pushing the boundaries of what’s possible with deep learning.
Thank you for embarking on this journey with us. We hope to stay
connected with our readers through our GitHub repository at
https://github.com/DeepTrackAI/DeepLearningCrashCourse. Please feel free
to contribute your thoughts, projects, and suggestions there. We wish
you all the best in your continued exploration of deep learning and AI.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 904 ---
INDEX
Note: Bold page numbers indicate where a term is defined or given extensive
treatment. For classes and functions, bold entries show where they are defined;
non-bold entries show where they are used.
Symbols
& (deeptrack operator), 141, 171, 176, 183, 186, 190–192, 194, 200, 215,
230, 235, 242, 256, 269, 286, 308
^ (deeptrack operator), 175, 228, 239
>> (deeptrack operator), 140, 141, 170, 175, 176, 181, 186, 190, 198, 215,
227–230, 235, 239–242, 256, 269, 272, 286, 308
@ (dot product), 14, 17, 23, 28, 32, 33, 58, 62, 63, 64, 69
A
A100 GPU, 386
Abbe, Ernst, 463
Abbe’s diffraction limit, 463. See also diffraction limit
accuracy, 39, 203, 211, 533. See also binary accuracy
vs. precision, 136
Accuracy (torchmetrics), 548, 550–552
accuracy_score() (sklearn), 203
action (reinforcement learning), 558
in deep Q-learning, 586
legal, 565
in Q-table, 578–579
action-value function, 559

--- Strana 905 ---
activation function, 2, 3, 19–20
Heaviside step, 3, 20
hyperbolic tangent, 19, 20
leaky ReLU, 19, 20
linear, 19, 20
ReLU, 19, 20, 43
sigmoid, 19, 20
softmax, 42
activation potential. 2, 3, 23, 26–28, 33, 63
active learning, 530, 556
with multiple groups, 539–546
with two groups, 531–539
ActiveLearningDataset (deeplay), 550–552
ADALINE (adaptive linear element), 48
Adam (deeplay, torch), 87, 135, 173, 200, 217, 231, 244, 259, 264, 267, 273,
289, 292, 293, 295, 297, 316, 363, 368, 372, 383, 402, 416, 490,
496, 508, 522, 548, 588
Adam optimizer, 45
β1 and β2 parameters, 383
with parameter list, 289
regularization with weight decay, 363
AdamW (deeplay, torch), 356, 440, 458, 461
adaptive average pooling, 148
AdaptiveAvgPool2d (torch), 118, 148, 547
adaptive linear element (ADALINE), 48
adaptive switching circuits, 48
Add (deeplay), 351
Add (deeptrack), 227, 228, 241, 272
additive attention, 335–336
AdditiveAttention, 335
adjacency matrix, 476–477, 611

--- Strana 906 ---
adversarial learning/training, 376–379, 423. See also generative
adversarial networks
adversarial sampling, 549, 552–553
agent (reinforcement learning), 558
in deep Q-learning, 585–586
in Q-learning, 574–585, 597
AI (artificial intelligence), xxii
AlexNet, xxii, 165
al_loop(), 549, 550–552
all_words_in_vocab(), 306, 307
alpha (parameter LodeSTAR), 275–276
AlphaFold, xxii, 326, 528
AlphaGo, 557, 599
animate(), 510, 511
Anki decks, 299
annotated data (active learning), 533–538, 541–545, 548–553
AnnotatedDataset, 133, 134
anomaly detection, 195, 375
with autoencoder, 195–206
using latent space, 204–206
using reconstruction error, 201–203
append() (deeplay), 353, 486, 487, 495, 547
Application (deeplay), 258, 315, 587–592, 594
area under the ROC curve (AUROC), 117
ArgmaxJI, 217, 217
artificial intelligence (AI), xxii
artificial neuron, 2–3, 48. See also single neuron
AsType (deeptrack), 228, 229, 235, 241–242
Atari games, 599
attention, 325, 326–336, 373, 528
additive, 335–336

--- Strana 907 ---
concatenative, 373
dot-product, 326–331, 373
standard scaled, 333
trainable, 333–335
general, 373
attention head, 343. See also multi-head attention
attention matrix, 327, 328–332
interpretation, 340–342
visualization, 331–332
attention outputs, 327, 329–331
attention U-Net, 438–439
architecture, 438
conditional, 447–448, 457–458, 467
AttentionUNet (deeplay), 439, 448, 458, 467
AUROC (area under the ROC curve), 117
autoencoder, 167, 168, 179–207
for anomaly detection, 195–206
variational, 179–188
Wasserstein, 188–195
average pooling, 119, 148, 266, 487–489
axon, 2
B
Ba, Jimmy, 45
Bachimanchi, Harshith, 472
backbone, 257–258, 265, 335, 552–553
convolutional, 257–258, 265, 547–548
message-passing, 501–502
ViT as, 370–371
backpropagation algorithm, 25–27, 48, 145
implementation, 27–28, 33, 63

--- Strana 908 ---
mathematical derivation, 25–27
backward() (torch), 125, 150, 154, 157, 162, 289, 384, 403, 404, 417, 441,
462, 593
sum().backward(), 125
Bahdanau, Dzmitry, 373
Barcelona, 158
batch (in PyTorch), 103
batch processing (graphs), 488–489
batch training/learning, 45, 65–73
implementation, 67–68
increasing batch size, 93
randomization, 71–73
BCELoss (torch), 182, 383
BCEWithLogitsLoss (torch), 244
Bellman, Richard, 557, 598
Bellman equation, 559, 598
BERT, 374
beta (parameter diffusion model), 433
beta (parameter LodeSTAR), 275–276
beta (parameter VAE), 182–183
beta (regularization factor style transfer), 160, 163
Beta distribution, 366
betas (parameter Adam), 363, 368, 383, 402, 416
bias
in CNN, 102
in single neuron, 2, 3, 17–18
bilinear upsampling, 107
BiLingual Evaluation Understudy (BLEU) score, 321–322, 339
binary accuracy, 116, 119
BinaryClassifier (deeplay), 115, 119, 356, 522
binary cross-entropy loss, 115, 116, 119, 182, 244, 356, 377, 379, 383

--- Strana 909 ---
BioSR (super-resolution) dataset, 463–464
BioSRDataset, 464, 465
bisectrix, 66, 67, 69, 262, 265, 267
BLEU (BiLingual Evaluation Understudy) score, 321–322, 339
BLEUScore (torchmetrics), 321
bmm() (torch), 160
boredom (reinforcement learning), 561
bottleneck, 168, 180, 210, 439
Brightfield (deeptrack), 138, 169
bright-field microscopy, 138, 170, 178, 394, 409
Broad Bioimage Benchmark Collection, 234
Bronte Ciriza, David, 80, 93
Brown, Robert, 426
Brownian motion, 128, 426
Bruna, Joan, 527
buffer (for dataset), 172
buffer (to replay experiences), 591. See also replay buffer
build() (deeplay), 267, 273, 363, 368, 372, 381, 382, 391, 392, 400, 401,
414, 415, 439, 467, 501, 548, 550–552, 588
build_vocab_from_iterator(), 304, 305, 348, 453
butterfly effect, 602, 607–610
bwd_hook_func(), 125
C
Caicedo, Juan C., 234
Callegari, Agnese, 82
candidate gate (LSTM), 297
Cat (deeplay), 217
CategoricalClassifier (deeplay), 548
categorical cross-entropy loss, 43, 212

--- Strana 910 ---
cell counting dataset, 234–235
cell counting with U-Net, 234–247
cell gate (LSTM), 297
cell localization with LodeSTAR, 268–277
CellTracingDataset, 519, 521
Cell Tracking Challenge dataset
BF-C2DL-HSC, 268–269
DIC-C2DH-HeLa, 512–514
cell trajectory identification with MAGIK, 511–526
centroid (position), 232, 270, 515
chaos, 602, 607, 608
chaotic system, 602
chatbots, 299
ChatGPT, xxii
Chen, Ting, 278
Cho, Kyunghyun, 323
Christiansen, Eric M., 394
Çiçek, Özgün, 248
CIFAR-10 dataset, 358–359
clamp_() (torch), 150
classification head, 362, 370, 522, 548
classification of malaria-infected blood smears, 110–128
classification of MNIST digits
with active learning, 547–555
with DNN, 34–47
Classifier (deeplay), 37, 363, 367, 372
classifier-free guidance. 446–453, 458–460
classifier guidance, 446
CLIP (Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training), 326, 450
Clip (deeptrack), 235, 241
CLIP text encoder, 460–463

--- Strana 911 ---
CLIPTextModel (transformers), 461
CLIP tokenizer, 460–463
CLIPTokenizer (transformers), 461
clone() (torch), 121, 123, 125, 151, 184, 365, 520
closure(), 161, 161
closure function, 161–163
code examples
1-1: Classifying 1D Data with a Single Neuron, 9
1-2: Classifying 2D Data with a Single Neuron, 16
1-3: Classifying 2D Data with a Two-Layer Neural Network, 29
1-A: Classifying the MNIST Digits, 47
2-1: Regressing 1D Data with a Single Neuron, 55
2-2: Regressing 2D Data with a Single Neuron, 60
2-3: Regressing 2D Data with a Two-Layer Neural Network, 64
2-4: Fitting Data with a Neural Network Trained Using Batch
Training, 73
2-5: Training a Neural Network Splitting the Data, 79
2-A: Simulating the Forces Acting on an Optically Trapped Particle,
92
3-1: Implementing Neural Networks in PyTorch, 110
3-A: Classifying Blood Smears with a Convolutional Neural
Network, 128
3-B: Localizing Microscopic Particles, 145
3-C: Creating DeepDreams, 158
3-D: Transferring Image Styles, 164
4-1: Denoising Images, 178
4-A: Generating Digit Images, 188
4-B: Interpolating Between Images, 195
4-C: Detecting ECG Anomalies, 206
5-1: Segmenting Biological Tissue Images, 223
5-A: Detecting Quantum Dots, 234
5-B: Counting Cells with a U-Net, 247
6-1: Localizing Particles Using LodeSTAR, 267

--- Strana 912 ---
6-A: Localizing Multiple Cells Using LodeSTAR, 277
7-1: Predicting Temperatures using Recurrent Neural Networks,
298
7-A: Translating with a Recurrent Neural Network, 322
8-1: Understanding Attention, 336
8-A: Translating with Attention, 342
8-B: Predicting Sentiment Using a Transformer, 357
8-C: Classifying Images with a Vision Transformer, 372
9-1: Generating New MNIST Digits with a GAN, 389
9-A: Generating MNIST Digits On Demand, 394
9-B: Virtually Straining a Biological Tissue with a Conditional
GAN, 409
9-C: Converting Microscopy Images with a CycleGAN, 422
10-1: Generating Digits with a Diffusion Model, 445
10-A: Generating Bespoke Digits with a Conditional Diffusion
Model, 449
10-B: Generating Images of Digits from Text Prompts, 463
10-C: Generating Super-Resolution Images, 471
11-1: Predicting Molecular Properties, 497
11-A: Simulating Complex Physical Phenomena, 511
11-B: Identifying Trajectories with MAGIK, 526
12-1: Training a Binary Classifier with Active Learning, 539
12-2: Training a Three-Class Classifier with Active Learning, 546
12-A: Training a MNIST Digits Classifier with Active Learning,
555
13-1: Teaching a Deep Q-Learning Agent to Play Tetris, 597
14-1: Training a Reservoir Computer to Predict the Lorenz
System, 619
Cohn, David, 556
collate(), 349, 349
comb filter, 280–281
commonsense benchmark, 287
compiling (a neural network), 37

--- Strana 913 ---
Compose (torchvision), 113, 149, 360, 361, 371, 380, 398, 412, 432, 465, 521
computational device, 287–288
computational graph, 91, 121, 184, 385
compute_connectivity(), 503, 503
compute_graph(), 503, 506, 509
compute_node_attr(), 502, 503
ComputeTrajectories, 523, 524
Compute Unified Device Architecture (CUDA), 288
CompVis, 425
concatenative attention, 373
configure() (deeplay), 36, 42, 44, 45, 118, 199, 353, 400, 401, 522, 547
configure_optimizers() (deeplay, Application method), 368
confusion matrix, 40
plotting, 40–41
connected_components() (networkx), 524
Connect Four, 560
connection (graph), 476. See also edge
constants() (deeptrack, Source method), 213
context manager, 153–154. See also with
context vector (seq2seq model), 299, 308–311, 337–338
Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP), 326, 450
contrastive learning, 252–255, 277, 278, 450
contrastive loss, 252
Conv1d (torch), 199
Conv2d (torch), 102, 108, 147–148
convex dataset, 10
convolution, 96–100
1D, 96–98
2D, 98–100
graph, 476–479
convolutional base, 109, 110, 119

--- Strana 914 ---
ConvolutionalEncoderDecoder2d (deeplay), 173, 199
convolutional layer, 100, 102–104
activation, 121–124
ConvolutionalNeuralNetwork (deeplay), 118, 134, 257, 401, 547
ConvTranspose1d (torch), 199
coregistration, 395, 409
corpus file (NLP), 299
corpus iterator (NLP), 302–303
corpus_iterator(), 302, 305
correlation matrix analysis, 284
Cortes, Corinna, 34
CosineAnnealingLR (torch), 367–368
CPU, xxiv, 38, 91, 244, 287–288, 312, 381, 386, 387
cpu() (torch), 91, 245, 386, 393, 405, 419, 434, 438, 443, 445, 470, 509
create() (deeplay), 36, 37, 42, 44, 45, 87, 115, 119, 135, 143, 173, 178, 182,
191, 200, 217, 221, 231, 244, 259, 264, 292, 293, 295, 297, 318,
355, 356, 458, 460, 489, 490, 494, 496, 508, 522
create_batch(), 366, 366, 369
Crop (deeptrack), 235
CropTight (deeptrack), 239
cross-attention, 326, 326–337, 345, 457, 458. See also attention
cross-entropy loss, 211
binary, 115, 116, 119, 182, 244, 356, 377, 379, 383
categorical, 43, 212
sparse, 212
weighted, 224
CrossEntropyLoss (torch), 217, 231, 363
.csv files, 3, 12, 83, 89, 90, 196, 219, 283
CSVLogger (lightning), 89, 218, 221
CUDA (Compute Unified Device Architecture), 288
cuda (torch), 288

--- Strana 915 ---
curiosity-driven exploration (reinforcement learning), 560–561
current reward (reinforcement learning), 559, 594
Cursor (matplotlib), 130–131
custom text encoder implementation (NLP), 455–457
CutMix, 365, 366
CutMix augmentation, 364
CutMixClassifier, 367, 368
cutoff (classifier), 116
cutoff (parameter LodeSTAR), 275–276
cvtColor() (cv2), 128
Cybenko, George, 49
Cybenko’s theorem, 49
cycle consistency, 410, 418, 420
CycleGAN, 410, 424
CycleGANDiscriminator (deeplay), 415
CycleGANResnetGenerator (deeplay), 414
cycle graph, 476–479
D
DALL-E, xxii, 425, 450
Data (torch_geometric), 349, 505–506, 509, 516–517, 519
data augmentation, 214, 252–255, 372, 412, 504, 519–521
CutMix, 364
Mixup, 364
with VAE, 183
DataFrame (pandas), 346, 357
data loader, 38
DataLoader (deeplay, torch), 38, 39, 45, 88, 115, 134, 142, 172, 177, 183, 186,
191, 200, 218, 222, 232, 235, 244, 260, 267, 272, 286, 308, 349,
361, 364, 372, 383, 403, 416, 440, 468, 547

--- Strana 916 ---
DataLoader (torch_geometric), 489, 507, 521
data pipeline
with augmentations, 214–215
with labels, 186, 190, 215
to load an image crop, 272
to load images, 181
to load text, 307–308
to load traces, 196–199, 286
with segmentations, 235, 269
dataset
BioSR (super-resolution), 463–464
cell counting, 234–235
Cell Tracking Challenge
BF-C2DL-HSC, 268–269
DIC-C2DH-HeLa, 512–514
CIFAR-10, 358–359
electrocardiogram (ECG), 196–197
English-to-Spanish translations, 299–300
Fashion-MNIST, 189–191
Holo2Bright, 411
Human Motor Neuron, 394–395
IMDb Large Movie Review, 345–347
Jena Climate, 282–284
malaria-infected blood smears, 111–112
microscopic particle videos, 128–130
MNIST, 1, 34–35, 181, 380–381, 432–433, 547
with sentences, 451–452
optical forces, 80–81
quantum dot image, 224–225
SAND (particle simulation), 497–500
segmented tissue images, 213, 216
ZINC (molecular properties), 483–486

--- Strana 917 ---
Dataset (deeptrack), 183, 186, 191, 200, 215, 222, 232, 235, 242, 256, 272,
286, 308
Dataset (torch), 88, 133, 142, 172, 395, 397, 411, 464, 504, 505, 519
Dayan, Peter, 598
DCGANDiscriminator (deeplay), 382, 392
DCGANGenerator (deeplay), 381, 391
DDPM (denoising diffusion probabilistic models), 427–432
decision boundary, 15, 20, 535–538, 543, 544
decoder, 168, 180, 182–185, 188, 199, 218, 299, 310–315, 336–339, 345,
376, 400–401, 501
decoder-only transformer, 345
deep belief nets, 49
deep learning, xxii
Deep Learning: A Visual Approach (Glassner), xxiii
deep learning revolution, xxi
deepcopy() (copy), 360, 371
deepdream(), 152, 153, 154, 154, 156, 157
DeepDreams, 145–158
Deeplay, xxiv, 36, 87, 279, 287, 292, 315, 362, 401, 414, 415, 439, 588
DeeplayModule (deeplay), 309–311, 313, 314, 330, 334, 335, 337, 338, 343,
350, 351, 353, 481, 482, 486–488, 495
DeepTrack2, 137, 286, 308
denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPM), 427–432
denoising encoder-decoder, 169–179
dense neural networks, 20–33, 61–65
with three layers, 31–33
with two layers, 20–31, 61–65
dense top, 109, 112, 118–119, 124, 134, 257, 265–266, 353, 361, 362,
487–488, 496
depth (of a neural network), 21

--- Strana 918 ---
detach() (torch), 91, 103–105, 107, 121, 123, 125, 126, 136, 143, 151, 160,
174, 175, 177, 178, 184, 186, 192–194, 200, 201, 203–205, 232,
245, 260, 262, 264, 267, 273, 312–314, 331, 369, 386, 393, 417,
419, 523, 590
deterministic chaos, 602. See also chaos
detransformation, 254
Dhariwal, Prafulla, 472
diffraction limit, 255, 463
diffraction-limited particle images, 256
Diffusion, 433, 434, 435, 440, 444, 447, 452, 467, 468
diffusion (in physics), 426
diffusion equations, 426
diffusion trajectory, 432
digital twin, 52, 79
of a physical system, 79–92
directed graph, 477
discount factor (reinforcement learning), 559, 580–581, 594
discriminator, 377–378, 382, 423
conditional, 390, 391–392
distance_matrix() (scipy), 276
Divide (deeptrack), 228, 235, 241
dnn2_clas(), 23, 24, 29
dnn2_reg(), 62, 62, 67, 68, 75, 77
dnn3_clas(), 32, 32
Doersch, Carl, 278
Dosovitskiy, Alexey, 374
dot-product attention, 328–331, 373
standard scaled, 333
trainable, 333–335
DotProductAttention, 330, 330, 337, 338
downsampling layer, 105

--- Strana 919 ---
DQLAgent, 587–595, 596, 597
dropout, 148, 295–298, 355, 387, 551, 615
Dropout (torch), 148, 351, 353
dropout rate, 295
d_sigmoid(), 28, 28, 33, 63, 68
dying ReLU problem, 105
dynamically learned loss function, 377
E
early stopping, 73, 220–222
EarlyStopping (lightning), 221
Earth mover’s distance, 188
eccentricity (of object), 515
edge (graph), 476–479, 611
edge attributes, 491
edge index, 492
eigenvalues (graph), 611
Einstein, Albert, 426
ElasticTransformation (deeptrack), 239
electrocardiogram (ECG) dataset, 196–197
Ellipsoid (deeptrack), 238, 239
Elman, Jeffrey L., 323
Embedding (torch), 309, 310, 353, 455, 487, 495
embedding dimension, 328, 329, 354, 390, 391, 447, 457, 458, 487
embedding layer, 390
encoded distribution, 188
encoder, 168, 180, 182, 186–188, 199, 218, 299, 308–315, 336, 345, 351–
355, 376, 501
encoder-decoder, 168–169
encoder-only transformer, 345

--- Strana 920 ---
encoding
contrastive learning, 252
geometric learning, 254
non-contrastive learning, 253
English-to-Spanish translations dataset, 299–300
entropy sampling, 545
environment (reinforcement learning), 558
epoch, 38
epsilon-greedy policy/strategy, 579, 585, 587, 590, 591, 597
equivariance, 254
error backpropagation. See backpropagation algorithm
estimated optimal reward (reinforcement learning), 559
Euclidean norm, 19
Euler integration scheme, 500, 509–510
eval() (torch), 147, 191, 356, 369, 386, 392, 405, 419, 442, 444, 448, 459,
462, 469, 509, 523. See also train()
evaluate_model()
for CycleGAN, 419, 420
for virtual staining, 405, 406
experience buffer, 591. See also replay buffer
exploration vs. exploitation (reinforcement learning), 560–561, 579, 587,
591
exposure bias, 314
F
F1 score, 276, 523
f1_score() (sklearn), 523
failure analysis, 46–47
fallout, 117
false-positive rate (FPR), 116

--- Strana 921 ---
Fashion-MNIST dataset, 189–191
fast forward diffusion process, 429–434
feature map, 99–100, 103–110, 160, 182, 210–211, 363, 402, 415, 438,
439, 457, 467, 548
feedback (reinforcement learning), 558, 573
feedback loop/mechanism (RNN), 280, 281
filter, 96
2D, 98–99
Prewitt, 99
Sobel, 99
Gaussian, 97, 98, 99
matching pattern, 98, 99
Prewitt, 98
rectangular, 97
RGB, 100
smoothing, 98
Sobel, 97, 98
valid complete placements of, 97, 99
filter() (deeptrack), 196
find_contours() (skimage), 525
fit() (torch), 38, 42, 44, 45, 89, 116, 119, 135, 143, 173, 178, 183, 191,
200, 204, 218, 221, 232, 244, 260, 264, 267, 273, 292, 293, 295,
297, 319, 356, 363, 368, 372, 490, 496, 508, 522, 532, 548, 549
flanging, 280
Flatten (torch), 109, 134, 257, 547
FlipLR (deeptrack), 215
flip_transform(), 263, 263
FlipUD (deeptrack), 215
Fluorescence (deeptrack), 226, 228, 238, 256
fluorescence microscopy, 226, 227, 234, 238, 256, 394
forget gate (LSTM), 297
forward diffusion process, 427, 427–429

--- Strana 922 ---
fast, 429–430
implementation, 433–435
forward filling, 219
FPR (false-positive rate), 116
from_numpy() (torch), 91, 232, 273, 275, 276
from_pretrained() (transformers), 371, 461
fully connected neural network, 21. See also dense neural networks
FuncAnimation (matplotlib), 499, 510, 525
future reward, 558, 559, 578, 581, 594
Fwd_Hook, 153, 154
fwd_hook_func(), 125, 125
Fwd_Hooks, 156, 157, 160, 162
G
GANs. See generative adversarial networks
GATs (graph attention networks), 528
gated recurrent unit (GRU), 294–296
gather() (torch), 315
Gatys, Leon A., 165
Gaudí, Antoni, 158
Gaussian (deeptrack), 241, 256
Gaussian blur, 240
GaussianBlur (deeptrack), 240
Gaussian Error Linear Unit (GeLU), 588
Gaussian filter, 97–99
Gaussian sampling, 179, 180
GCL, 481–482, 486, 487
GCN, 486–488, 489
GCNs (graph convolutional networks), 486–489, 527
GeLU (Gaussian Error Linear Unit), 588

--- Strana 923 ---
GELU (torch), 456
general attention, 335, 373
generative adversarial networks (GANs), 375, 377, 376–379
conditional, 390
training
algorithm, 379
implementation, 384–386
generator, 377–379, 381–382, 423
conditional, 390, 390–391
geometric contrastive learning, 278
geometrical–optics approximation (optical tweezers), 79
get_device(), 288, 288, 381, 400, 414, 433, 466, 508
get_glove_embeddings(), 317, 318, 328, 355
get_mask(), 242, 242
Gilmer, Justin, 527
Glassner, Andrew, xxiii
global average pooling, 266, 487–489
Global Vectors for Word Representation (GloVe), 316–318, 328, 332,
355
GNNs (graph neural networks), 475
gnp_random_graph() (networkx), 612
Go (game), xxii, 557, 599
GODataset, 88, 88
Goodfellow, Ian, 379, 423
Google, 145, 325, 425
Google Colab, xxiv
Google Imagen, 425
GoogLeNet, 165
Google Research, 358
GPT, 374
GPT-4, xxi

--- Strana 924 ---
GPU, xxiv, 38, 91, 244, 287–288, 312, 381, 386
A100, 386
gradient ascent, 149–151
gradient descent, 25
gradient-weighted class activation mapping (Grad-CAM), 124–127
GradualWarmupScheduler (warmup_scheduler), 367
gram(), 160, 160, 162
Gram matrix, 160–163
Graph (networkx), 524
graph, 476, 611
directed, 477
undirected, 477
graph attention network (GAT), 528
graph convolution, 476–479
GraphConvolution, 480, 481
graph_convolution(), 478, 478
graph convolutional network, 486–489, 527
graph convolution layer, 480–482
GraphFromSegmentations, 514–516, 517
graph network–based simulator, 497, 500–502
graph neural networks (GNNs), 475
graph theory, 611
GraphToEdgeMAGIK (deeplay), 522
GraphToNodeMPM (deeplay), 501
Grill, Jean-Bastien, 278
GRU (gated recurrent unit), 294–296
GRU (torch), 309, 310
guidance strength, 446
GUI for particle position, 130–132

--- Strana 925 ---
H
Haas, Harald, 620
Hadamard product, 294, 297
handling contractions (NLP), 301
hash table (analogy with dot-product attention), 330
Hassabis, Demis, 528
He, Kaiming, 165
heatmap
attention, 331–332, 340–342
with Grad-CAM, 124–127
Heaviside step function, 3, 19, 20
Helgadottir, Saga, 128, 165
hidden layer, 20, 27
hidden state, 281, 289, 299, 309, 336, 337
Hinton, Geoffrey E., 49, 207
hist(), 202, 202–205
history (deeplay, Trainer field), 292, 319, 363
Ho, Jonathan, 431, 472
Hochreiter, Sepp, 323
Hoff, Marcian E., 48
holdout dataset, 74
Holo2Bright dataset, 411
Holo2BrightDataset, 411, 413
holographic microscopy, 409
hook_func(), 121, 122, 123, 150, 150
hook function, 121
backward, 125
forward, 125
Hopfield, John J., 620
Hopfield networks, 620

--- Strana 926 ---
Hornik, Kurt, 49
HTML (IPython), 499, 510, 525
Hugging Face (library), 345, 370, 372
Human Motor Neuron dataset, 394–395
hyperbolic tangent function, 19, 20, 105
hyperparameters, 40, 73
I
IBM Watson, xxii
Identity (numpy), 614
Identity (torch), 134, 199
Image (PIL), 121, 146, 151, 158, 159, 224, 395, 396, 411, 412
image classification with a ViT, 358–372
image conversion with CycleGAN, 409–422
image embedding, 450
ImageFolder (deeptrack), 181, 189, 213, 235
ImageFolder (torchvision), 111, 113
image generation
conditional
with diffusion model, 446–450
with GAN, 389–394
with diffusion model, 432–445
with GAN, 379–389
with VAE, 183–185
with WAE, 192–193
Imagen (Google), 425
ImageNet Large Scale Visual Recognition Challenge, xxii, 147, 148,
165, 364, 370
image patch embeddings, 362
image segmentation with U-Net, 211–224

--- Strana 927 ---
image super-resolution, 463–471
image_to_tensor(), 149, 150, 153, 154, 160
image_translation(), 258, 259, 263
imbalanced data classes (training), 196
imdb_iterator(), 348, 348
IMDb Large Movie Review dataset, 345–347
immediate reward, 559, 594
imread() (cv2), 513
imread() (matplotlib), 34, 39, 452
imread() (tiffile), 464
Inception (architecture), 165
Inception (movie), 145
inceptionism, 145
increasing batch size (for training), 93
IndexedPositionalEmbedding (deeplay), 353
inductive bias, 364
input (neuron), 2
input gate (LSTM), 297
InstanceNorm2d (torch), 400, 401
instance segmentation, 211
interobserver variability, 137
intersection over union (IoU), 216
intraobserver variability, 137
invariance, 254
inverse_flip_transform(), 263, 264
inverse_translation(), 258, 259, 264
IOU (intersection over union), 216
Isensee, Fabian, 248
isotropic_erosion() (skimage), 242

--- Strana 928 ---
J
Jaccard index, 216–217
Jaeger, Herbert, 620
Jena Climate dataset, 282–284
Johnson, Justin, 423
Join (deeptrack), 181, 189, 213
Jumper, John, 528
Jupyter Notebooks, xxiv
K
Kaggle Notebooks, xxiv
Kaiming (deeplay), 552
Kaiming initializer, 553
kernel, 102. See also filter
Kingma, Diederik P., 45, 207
Kipf, Thomas N., 527
KL (Kullback–Leibler) divergence, 180, 189
k-nearest neighbors algorithm, 204
Kneusel, Ronald T., xxiii
Krizhevsky, Alex, 165
Kullback–Leibler (KL) divergence, 180, 189
L
L1Loss (torch), 173, 200, 259, 264, 289, 402, 415, 468, 490, 496
l1_loss() (torch), 201, 203
L1 norm, 19, 416
L2 norm, 19, 416

--- Strana 929 ---
L2-norm pooling, 106
label() (skimage), 232, 236, 245
labeling oracle, 530
label_trans(), 113, 113, 121
Lambda (deeptrack), 215
large language models (LLMs), xxi
large margin sampling, 545
Latent Diffusion Models, 425, 472
latent representation, 168, 180, 390
latent space, 168, 180, 188, 204–206, 377
Layer (deeplay), 118, 134, 309, 310, 337, 343, 351, 353, 354, 481, 487, 494,
495, 547
LayerList (deeplay), 36, 353, 486, 487, 495
LayerNorm (torch), 455
LayerNorm (torch_geometric), 351
LazyLinear (torch), 257, 492, 494
LBFGS (torch), 161
L-BFGS (Limited-memory Broyden-Fletcher-Goldfarb-Shanno)
algorithm, 161–163
leaky ReLU, 19, 20, 105
LeakyReLU (torch), 400, 401
learned perceptual image patch similarity (LPIPS), 402
LearnedPerceptualImagePatchSimilarity (torchmetrics), 402
learning rate, 7, 8
LeCun, Yann, 34, 165
legal action (reinforcement learning), 565
LeNet-5 (architecture), 165
Lenton, Isaac C.D., 93
lerp() (torch), 447
Lightning, xxiv, 287

--- Strana 930 ---
Limited-memory Broyden-Fletcher-Goldfarb-Shanno (L-BFGS)
algorithm, 161–163
Linear (torch), 36, 109, 148, 288, 310, 334, 335, 343, 351, 353, 371, 456,
481, 487
LinearBlock (deeplay), 36
linear function, 19, 20
linear_sum_assignment() (scipy), 276
link (graph), 476
LLMs (large language models), xxi
load() (json), 451, 498
load() (numpy), 82–83, 133, 498
load() (torch), 508, 597
load_data(), 12, 12, 22, 30, 52, 56, 57, 61, 65, 74, 77
load_data_1d(), 3, 4, 10
load_data_file(), 84, 84, 85, 86
loader.py, 4, 9, 12, 16, 29, 52, 55, 60, 64, 73, 79
load_from_checkpoint() (lightning), 491, 496
load_glove_embeddings(), 317, 318, 328, 355
LoadImage (deeptrack), 181, 190, 215, 235, 269
load_images(), 512, 513, 522
load_npz_data(), 498, 498
load pretrained embeddings (NLP), 316–318
load_state_dict() (torch), 508, 595, 597
load_video(), 128, 129
LodeSTAR (deeplay), 267, 273
LodeSTAR (Localization and Detection from Symmetries, Translations,
and Rotations), 255–268, 278
alpha parameter, 275
beta parameter, 275
cutoff parameter, 275
displacement channels, 266

--- Strana 931 ---
mode parameter, 275
probability channel, 266
training with flipping, 262–265
translation equivariant training
algorithm, 257
implementation, 258–260
log() (lightning), 259, 368
logic gates, 22, 32
LogisticRegression (sklearn), 532
logistic regression model, 532–533
logits, 42, 212
log_metrics() (lightning), 368
log_output() (deeplay, Application method), 368
logP (penalized water-octanol partition coefficient), 483
Long, Jonathan, 207
long short-term memory (LSTM), 296–298, 323
Lorenz, Edward, 602
lorenz(), 604, 604, 607, 613
Lorenz attractor, 603, 606–607
lorenz_step(), 603, 604
Lorenz system
definition, 602–603
numerical integration, 603–604
time evolution, 604–605
loss() (deeplay, Application method), 259, 367, 593
loss function, 25
dynamically learned, 377
weighted, 231
LPIPS (learned perceptual image patch similarity), 402
Lp norm, 19
LSTM (long short-term memory), 296–298, 323

--- Strana 932 ---
Luong, Minh-Thang, 373
Lyapunov exponent, 608, 610, 618
M
machine learning, xxii
Machine Learning with Neural Networks: An Introduction for Scientists and
Engineers (Mehlig), xxiii
MAE. See mean absolute error
MAGIK, 511, 521–522, 528
malaria-infected blood smears dataset, 111–112
ManualAnnotation, 130, 131
manual annotation (of particle positions), 130–134
ManyThings.org website, 299
Margin (deeplay), 551, 552
Markov decision process, 598
Markov process, 427
maskedNLL(), 315, 316
mask_to_positions(), 232, 232
Math for Deep Learning (Kneusel), xxiii
Matplotlib, xxiv
%matplotlib inline (standard backend), 132
%matplotlib ipympl (interactive backend), 131
Matthes, Eric, xxiii
Max Planck Institute for Biogeochemistry, 282
MaxPool1d (torch), 199
MaxPool2d (torch), 105, 108, 109, 118, 134, 147–148, 257, 547
max pooling, 105
McCulloch, Warren S., 48
MeanAbsoluteError (torchmetrics), 87, 135
mean absolute error (MAE), 87, 135, 143, 245, 287, 402, 416, 491, 509

--- Strana 933 ---
mean percentage error (MPE), 245
mean squared error (MSE), 26, 37, 68, 87, 162, 183, 402, 416, 431, 508,
613, 615
Mehlig, Bernhard, xxiii
memory, 280
message (GNN), 492
message-passing layer, 492–495
message-passing network, 495–496, 527
Metal Performance Shaders (MPS), 288. See also GPU
MetricCollection (deeplay), 37–38
metrics.csv file, 89, 90, 219
microscopic particle videos dataset, 128–130
Midtvedt, Benjamin, 255, 278
MieSphere (deeplay), 137, 139
mini-batch training. See batch training/learning
min pooling, 106
Mixup augmentation, 364
MNIST handwritten digit database, 1, 34–35, 181, 380–381, 432–433,
547
with sentences, 451–452
mode (parameter LodeSTAR), 275–276
mode collapse, 175–176, 253, 382, 389, 393, 394, 444
ModelCheckpoint (lightning), 490, 496, 508
model-free reinforcement learning, 559, 598
Module (torch), 370, 455, 480, 492–494
molecular property prediction with GNN, 479–497
MolecularRegressor, 490, 490, 491, 496
momentum (of an optimizer), 45
Mordvintsev, Alexander, 145
morphing images with WAE, 193–195
MoveAxis (deeptrack), 170, 175, 176, 181, 190, 215, 230, 235, 242, 256, 272

--- Strana 934 ---
moving average, 96
MPE (mean percentage error), 245
MPN, 495, 496
MPS (Metal Performance Shaders), 288. See also GPU
mps (torch), 288
MSE. See mean squared error
MSELoss (torch), 37, 87, 135, 161, 191, 402, 415, 440, 508, 588
MulticlassAccuracy (torch), 37–38
MulticlassJaccardIndex (torchmetrics), 217
multi-head attention, 342–344, 345
MultiHeadAttentionLayer, 343, 350, 351
multilayer perceptron, 21. See also dense neural networks
MultiLayerPerceptron (deeplay), 36, 38, 87, 115, 118, 134, 547, 552, 588
multimodal learning, 358
Multiply (deeptrack), 272
N
natural language processing. See NLP
NearestNeighbors (sklearn), 204
nearest neighbor upsampling, 107
negative log-likelihood loss, 315
negative pairs (contrastive learning), 252
NetworkX, 612
neural style transfer, 158–164, 165
neuron. See also single neuron
artificial, 2–3, 48
biological, 2, 48
neuron_clas_1d(), 5, 6, 8
neuron_clas_2d(), 14, 14, 15
neuron_clas_2d_bias(), 17, 18

--- Strana 935 ---
neuron_reg_1d(), 53, 53, 54
neuron_reg_2d(), 58, 59
new() (deeplay), 548, 550–552
NFC (Normalization Form C), 302
NFD (Normalization Form D), 302
n-gram, 321
Nichol, Alexander, 472
NLP (natural language processing), 299
corpus file, 299
corpus iterator, 302–303
custom text encoder implementation, 455–457
handling contractions, 301
pretrained embeddings loading, 316–318
removing noise, 301–302
tokenization, 300
vocabulary building, 303–306
nnU-Net, 248
Nobel Prize in Chemistry
Hassabis, Demis, 528
Jumper, John, 528
Nobel Prize in Physics
Hinton, Geoffrey E., 49
Hopfield, John J., 620
node (graph), 476, 611
node attributes, 476, 477
no_grad() (torch), 290, 314, 338, 339, 405, 435, 444, 509, 590, 592, 593
non-contrastive learning, 277, 278
NonOverlapping (deeptrack), 241
normalization
output, 42
weight, 18–19
Normalization Form C (NFC), 302

--- Strana 936 ---
Normalization Form D (NFD), 302
normalize() (cv2), 128
Normalize (torchvision), 149, 151, 360, 361, 371, 380, 398, 412, 432, 465
normalize() (unicodedata), 301, 302, 307, 320, 348
normalized() (deeplay), 400, 401
normalize_image(), 366, 366, 369
NormalizeMinMax (deeptrack), 141, 170, 175, 176, 181, 190, 215, 256
.npy files, 82, 83, 133
NumPy, xxiv
numpy() (torch), 91, 114, 122, 126, 136, 143, 151, 184, 186, 260, 262, 264,
267, 273, 369, 386, 393, 399, 405, 413, 419, 434, 438, 443, 445,
470, 484, 509, 523, 524, 590
O
observe_tetris_with_gui(), 575, 576, 579, 583, 597
OneHot (deeptrack), 229
one-hot encoding, 37, 212, 229
online network (non-contrastive learning), 253
online training, 65
open() (PIL, Image method), 121, 146, 158, 159, 224, 396, 411, 412
open() (Python), 3, 12, 81, 84, 85, 302, 307, 317, 451, 453, 498
OpenAI, 425, 450
optical forces dataset, 80–81
optical tweezer, 79
optimal transport theory, 188, 207
optimizer, 37, 45
Adam, 45
momentum of, 45
RMSprop, 45, 115
stochastic gradient descent, 37

--- Strana 937 ---
OTGO (toolbox for optical tweezers in the geometrical optics regime),
82, 84
output (neuron), 2, 3
output gate (LSTM), 297
output layer, 20
output normalization, 42
overfitting, 39, 73, 77, 78, 93, 148, 219–222, 284, 290, 293, 296, 297,
352, 360, 386, 443, 550, 586, 602, 614, 615
P
pad(), 306, 307, 320
Pad (deeptrack), 239
pad_and_process(), 454, 455, 457, 459
pairwise_distances() (sklearn), 205
Pajitnov, Alexey, 561
Pandas, 89
read metrics file with, 89
panoptic segmentation, 211
Parameter (torch), 102
parameters() (torch), 37, 87, 289, 312, 314, 320, 321, 383, 402, 416, 440,
458, 461, 462, 588
Parc Güell, 158
ParticleDataset, 504–505, 507
particle localization (microscopy)
with convolutional network, 128–145
with LodeSTAR, 255–268
with U-Net, 224–234
ParticleLocalizer, 258, 259, 263
ParticleLocalizerWithFlips, 263, 264
penalty (reinforcement learning), 558

--- Strana 938 ---
perceptron, 48
perceptual loss, 402, 404, 407, 423
permute() (torch), 142, 171, 215, 216, 236, 243, 273, 275, 276, 344, 366,
369, 405, 413, 419, 443, 445, 465, 470
phase-space plot, 606
Pineda, Jesús, 511, 528
pipeline, 138. See also data pipeline; simulation pipeline
pitch shifting, 280
Pitts, Walter, 48
pixel-wise multiclass classification, 211
playing Tetris
with command line, 568–569
with deep Q-learning, 585–597
with GUI, 569–572
with Q-learning, 573–585
play_tetris_with_gui(), 570, 572
plot_activations(), 122, 123
plot_attention(), 331, 331, 340
plot_blood_smears(), 111, 112, 113, 114
plot_channels(), 103, 103–105, 107
plot_class_examples(), 358, 359
plot_data_1d(), 4, 5, 52
plot_data_2d(), 13, 13, 57
plot_image() (Code Example 3-1), 101, 101
plot_image() (Code Example 4-1), 171, 171, 174, 175, 177
plot_model(), 534, 535, 537
plot_model3(), 542, 543, 544
plot_mse(), 70, 70, 72, 72
plot_mse_train_vs_val(), 76, 76
plot_position_comparison(), 260, 261, 262, 264, 267
plot_pred_1d(), 6, 6, 54

--- Strana 939 ---
plot_pred_2d(), 14, 15, 24, 29, 59, 62, 75, 77
plot_pred_vs_gt(), 66, 67, 75, 77
plot_roc(), 117, 117, 119
plot_simulated_particles(), 138, 139, 140
plot_simulated_particles_with_positions(), 141, 141
plotting.py, 5, 6, 9, 12, 14, 16, 29, 52, 53, 55, 57, 59, 60, 64, 66, 69, 72, 73,
76, 79
plot_training(), 291, 291, 292
plot_training_metrics(), 219, 220, 221
point particle, 255
PointParticle (deeptrack), 227, 228, 255
Poisson (deeptrack), 140, 170, 240
Poisson noise, 140, 170, 229
policy (reinforcement learning), 558
pooling layer, 105
positional_encoding(), 436, 437, 440, 442, 444, 455, 468, 469
positional encoding function, 436–438
positional encodings, 352–353, 362
positive pairs (contrastive learning), 252
precision, 203, 276
vs. accuracy, 136
precision_score() (sklearn), 203
predicting Lorenz system with reservoir computing, 610–619
prediction error, 560
predictions-versus-ground-truth plot, 65–67
prepare_data() (Code Examples 10-1, 10-A and 10-B), 440, 441, 448, 459
prepare_data() (Code Example 10-C), 468, 469
preprocessing(), 348, 348
pretrained embeddings loading (NLP), 316–318
PretrainedViTModel, 370, 372
Prewitt filter, 98

--- Strana 940 ---
prior distribution, 188
process(), 307, 308
product() (deeptrack, Source method), 213
PropagateLayer, 493, 494, 495
Pygame, 569–572
Python, xxiv
documentation, xxiv
official website, xxiv
Python Crash Course, 3rd edition (Matthes), xxiii
Python package (creating and importing), 4–5
PyTorch, xxiv, 100–110, 287
convolutional architectures, 108–109
convolutional layer, 102–104
dense layers, 109–110
pooling layers, 105–106
ReLU activation, 104–105
upsampling layers, 106–108
PyTorch tensor (image), 101
Q
Q-function, 558
Qiao, Chang, 463
QLAgent, 574, 576, 576, 578, 579, 580, 581, 583, 584
Q-learning, 558–561, 598
QLTetris, 573, 574, 584, 596
Q-network (deep Q-learning), 586, 599
Q-table, 578–579
quantum dot, 224
detection, 224–234
quantum dot image dataset, 224–225

--- Strana 941 ---
query-by-committee sampling, 530
query_random(), 534, 534, 538, 543, 545
query strategy, 530
query_uncertainty(), 536, 537, 538, 544, 545
R
Rajaraman, Sivaramakrishnan, 111
RandomCrop (torchvision), 360, 371, 398
random_ellipse_axes(), 238, 238
RandomFlip, 520, 521
random graph, 611
RandomHorizontalFlip (torchvision), 360, 371, 398, 412
RandomRotation, 520, 521
random sampling, 534–536, 543, 548, 550
random_split() (deeptrack, Source method), 196, 213, 285, 308
random_split() (torch), 114, 134
RandomVerticalFlip (torchvision), 398, 412
read_csv() (pandas), 89, 196, 219, 221, 283
recall, 116, 203, 276
recall_score() (sklearn), 203
receiver operating characteristic (ROC), 117
reconstruction error (autoencoder), 196
reconstruction term (loss in VAE), 180
recurrence relations, 279
RecurrentModel (deeplay), 292, 293, 295, 297
recurrent neural networks (RNNs), 281–282
GRU, 294–296
LSTM, 296–298
stacked, 293–294
regionprops() (skimage), 232, 269, 515

--- Strana 942 ---
register_forward_hook() (torch), 121, 122, 125, 150, 153, 156
register_full_backward_hook() (torch), 125
regression, 51
Regressor (deeplay), 87, 135, 173, 200, 217, 231, 244, 292, 293, 295, 297,
490, 508
regularization
for Adam, 363
factor
for reservoir computing, 613
for style transfer, 163
term (VAE), 180–181, 183
training, 73
weight, 18–19
reinforcement learning, 558
ReLU (rectified linear unit), 19, 20, 104–105
ReLU (torch), 44, 104, 108, 134, 147–148, 351, 353, 481, 487, 492, 494, 501,
522
ReLU activation function, 43
remove() (os), 111, 269, 317, 512
remove() (torch), 122, 125, 150, 154, 156
removing noise (NLP), 301–302
reparameterization (Gaussian distribution), 428
replace() (deeplay), 501
replace (in dataset), 172
replay buffer, 587, 591–594
requires_grad_() (torch), 147, 149
requires_grad (torch, Tensor attribute), 319, 355, 462
rescale_intensity() (skimage), 126
reservoir, 601
reservoir computing
implementation, 610–619

--- Strana 943 ---
introduction, 601–602
reset gate (GRU), 294, 295
residual connection, 165, 344, 351, 352, 414. See also skip connections
ResidualMessagePassingNeuralNetwork (deeplay), 501
resize() (cv2), 128
resize() (skimage), 126, 369
Resize (torchvision), 113, 371, 380
resolve() (deeptrack), 138, 141, 142, 171, 172, 174, 175, 177, 178, 230
reverb, 280
reverse diffusion
implementation, 435–436
process, 427, 430–432
reward (reinforcement learning), 558
RGB images, 100
RMSprop (deeplay, torch), 45, 115, 119
RMSProp optimizer, 45
RNN (torch), 288
RNNs. See recurrent neural networks
ROC (receiver operating characteristic), 117
ROC (torchmetrics), 117
ROC curve, 116–118
Rombach, Robin, 472
Ronneberger, Olaf, 210, 248
Rosenblatt, Frank, 48
Rumelhart, David E., 49
Runge-Kutta algorithms, 603
S
Saharia, Chitwan, 472
Salakhutdinov, Ruslan R., 207

--- Strana 944 ---
SampleToMasks (deeptrack), 229, 242
sampling (active learning)
adversarial, 549, 552–553
entropy, 545
large margin, 545
query-by-committee, 530
random, 534–536, 543, 548, 550
small margin, 545
uncertainty, 530, 536–538, 544, 548, 550–552
sampling process, 428
SAND (particle simulation) dataset, 497–500
save() (numpy), 83, 133
save() (torch), 595
Scarselli, Franco, 527
Schmidhuber, Jürgen, 323
Seaborn, 40
segmentation, 211, 358
instance, 211
panoptic, 211
semantic, 207, 211
segmented tissue images dataset, 213, 216
select_labels(), 214, 215
self-attention, 326, 332, 342, 343, 362, 373, 374, 439, 455, 456, 458. See
also attention
self-loop (graph), 481
self-supervised learning, 252–255
contrastive, 252–253
geometric, 254–255
non-contrastive, 253–254
semantic segmentation, 207, 211
sensitive dependence on initial
conditions, 607. See also butterfly effect

--- Strana 945 ---
sensitivity, 116
sentiment analysis, 299
with a transformer, 342–357
Seq2Seq, 315, 318
seq2seq (sequence-to-sequence) model, 299
seq2seq (sequence-to-sequence) transformation, 299
Seq2SeqDecoder (Code Example 7-1), 310, 312
Seq2SeqDecoder (Code Example 8-A), 337
Seq2SeqEncoder, 309, 312
Seq2SeqModel (Code Example 7-1), 311–314, 316
Seq2SeqModel (Code Example 8-A), 338
sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) architecture, 311
combine encoder and decoder, 311–315
with attention, 338–339
define loss, 315
implement application, 315–316
implement decoder, 310–311
with attention, 337–338
implement encoder, 308–310
load pretrained embeddings, 316–318
test, 319–322
with attention, 339–340
train, 318–319
sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) model, 299
sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) transformation, 299
Sequential (deeplay, torch), 104, 105, 107–110, 118, 134, 147–148, 257, 351,
353, 456, 487, 494, 495, 547
SGD (deeplay, torch), 37, 38
shot noise, 170, 229
sigmoid(), 22, 23, 28, 32, 33, 62, 63, 69, 281, 282
sigmoid() (numerically stable), 614, 614, 616

--- Strana 946 ---
sigmoid() (torch), 245
Sigmoid (torch), 36, 115, 118, 353, 401, 522, 552
sigmoid function, 19, 20, 105
simple implementation, 22, 281
stable implementation, 614
signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), 140, 170, 240
Silver, David, 599
Simonyan, Karen, 165
simulate(), 509, 510
SimulatedDataset (Code Example 3-B), 142, 142
SimulatedDataset (Code Example 4-1), 172, 172, 177–178
simulation (with GNN), 497–511
simulation pipeline
cell images, 237–242
microscopic particle image, 137–142, 169–171, 176
point particle, 255–257
quantum dots, 225–231
single neuron, 2–19, 52–61
classification of 1D data with, 3–11
classification of 2D data with, 11–17
regression of 1D data with, 52–57
regression of 2D data with, 57–61
training algorithm, 7
training code, 8, 54
skip connections, 209, 210
sklearn, 203–205, 523, 532
small margin sampling, 545
Smith, Samuel L., 93
SNR (signal-to-noise ratio), 140, 170, 240
Sobel filter, 97, 98, 99
Softmax (torch), 42, 110, 310, 337

--- Strana 947 ---
softmax() (torch), 232, 330, 334, 336, 344, 350
softmax activation/function, 42, 110, 211, 311, 329
Sohl-Dickstein, Jascha, 471
Source (deeptrack), 196, 213, 235, 269, 285, 308
spaCy models, 300
sparse categorical cross-entropy, 212
special tokens, 305–307, 320, 454
spectral radius, 611, 612
Sphere (deeptrack), 169, 176
splitting the data, 73–79
squeeze() (numpy), 136, 138, 141, 184, 214, 230, 434
squeeze() (torch), 47, 101, 151, 190, 192–194, 198, 200, 245, 246, 312–314,
331, 335, 339, 340, 354, 380, 434, 437, 484, 487, 488, 490, 524
Stable Diffusion, 425, 450
stacked recurrent neural networks, 293–294
standard scaled dot-product attention, 333
state (reinforcement learning), 558
in Q-table, 578–579
steepest-descent training, 65
step() (torch), 161, 289, 384, 403, 404, 417, 441, 462, 593
stimulus signals, 2
stochastic differential equations, 426
stochastic gradient descent optimizer, 37
style_transfer(), 160, 161, 163
Subset (torch), 360
Subtract (deeptrack), 228
sum() (torch), 125
super-resolution, 463–471, 472
super-resolution microscopy, 463
supervised learning, 1
Sutskever, Ilya, 323

--- Strana 948 ---
Sutton, Richard S., 598, 599
synapse, 2
synaptic potential, 2, 3
synaptic signals, 2
Szegedy, Christian, 165
T
Tanh (torch), 400–401
target network
deep Q-learning, 586
non-contrastive learning, 253
teacher forcing, 313
teacher-student learning paradigm, 586
temperature prediction with an RNN, 282–298
temporal difference error, 586
temporal difference learning, 598
tensor processing units (TPUs), xxv
tensor_to_image(), 151, 152, 153, 161
test() (lightning), 39, 42, 44, 45, 116, 119, 135, 143, 144, 222, 356, 364,
369, 372, 491, 496, 509, 548, 549
test/testing dataset, 39, 74
Tetriminos, 561
Tetris, 561
Tetris, 562–568, 568, 573, 576–577, 589
text embeddings, 450
text encoder, 450
TextEncoder, 455, 457
text-to-image transformation, 450–463
text translation
with attention, 336–342

--- Strana 949 ---
with an RNN, 299–322
textual prompts, 450
threshold (classifier), 116
thresholding (image), 233
tic-tac-toe, 560
tifffile() (tifffile), 464
time evolution, 603
to() (torch), 91, 259, 264, 288–290, 311–314, 320, 322, 339, 381, 382, 384,
386, 391, 392, 400–402, 405, 406, 414, 415, 420, 433–436, 439,
440, 444, 448, 456–462, 467, 468, 482, 490, 509
to_dense_adj() (torch_geometric), 484, 490
to_jshtml() (matplotlib), 499, 510, 525
tokenization (NLP), 300
tokenize(), 300, 300, 301, 301, 302, 307, 320, 348, 356, 453, 454
tokenizer, 311
Tolstikhin, Ilya, 207
to_numpy_array() (networkx), 612
ToTensor (deeptrack), 170, 175, 176, 181, 190, 198, 215, 230, 235, 242, 256,
272, 286, 308
ToTensor (torchvision), 113, 149, 360, 361, 371, 380, 398, 412, 432, 465, 547
TPR (true-positive rate), 116
TPUs (tensor processing units), xxv
tqdm() (tqdm), 276, 395–396, 435, 447, 452, 467
train() (torch), 386, 405, 419, 442, 459, 462, 469. See also eval()
TrainableAttention, 334
train_active_learning(), 533, 534, 537, 538, 541, 543–545
train_disc(), 403, 406
trainer, 38
Trainer (deeplay, lightning), 38, 42, 44, 45, 89, 116, 119, 135, 143, 173, 178,
183, 191, 200, 218, 221, 232, 244, 260, 264, 267, 273, 292, 293,
319, 356, 363, 368, 372, 490, 496, 508, 522, 548, 549

--- Strana 950 ---
train_gen(), 404, 406
training dataset, 73
training a neuron
algorithm, 7
implementation, 8, 54
training an RNN
implementation, 289
monitoring training loss, 290
monitoring validation loss, 290–291
training_step() (deeplay, Application method), 259, 367
train_model() (Code Example 9-C), 416, 420
train_model() (Code Examples 12-1 and 12-2), 532, 533, 542
train_preprocess() (deeplay, Application method), 316
transformer, 325, 344–345
decoder-only, 345
encoder-only, 345
transformer encoder, 345, 351–355, 361, 362
TransformerEncoderLayer, 351, 353
TransformerEncoderModel, 353, 355
TransformLayer, 492, 494, 495
translate() (Code Example 7-A), 320, 320, 321
translate() (Code Example 8-A), 340, 340, 341
translate() (kornia), 258
translation, 257
equivariance, 257
translation (NLP), 299
Trencadís Lizard, 158
trilinear upsampling, 108
true-positive rate (TPR), 116
.txt files, 81, 83, 84, 299, 454, 518, 581, 583

--- Strana 951 ---
U
uncertainty (reinforcement learning), 560
uncertainty sampling, 530, 536–538, 544, 548, 550–552, 556
UncertaintyStrategy (deeplay), 551
underfitting, 77, 290, 386
undirected graph, 477
U-Net, 210–211, 248
UNet2d (deeplay), 217, 231, 244, 400
Unicode (encoding standard), 302
UniformStrategy (deeplay), 550
universal approximators (neural network as), 49
unlabeled data, 252
unlabeled pool, 530
unpooling layer, 106
unprocess(), 319, 320, 322, 339
Unsqueeze (deeptrack), 198
unsqueeze() (torch), 102, 104, 105, 107, 108, 110, 113, 121, 122, 125, 149,
174, 175, 177, 178, 184, 192, 194, 200, 223, 232, 273, 275, 276,
313, 320, 335, 350, 435, 440, 455, 468, 493
unsupervised clustering with VAE, 186–187
unsupervised learning, 167
update() (deeptrack), 138, 141, 142, 171, 172, 174, 175, 177, 178, 227, 230,
238
update gate (GRU), 294, 295
UpdateLayer, 494, 494, 495
Upsample (torch), 107
upsampling layer, 106
V

--- Strana 952 ---
VAE (variational autoencoder), 179–188, 188, 207
validation dataset, 39, 73
Value (deeptrack), 186, 190, 198, 272, 286, 308
value function (reinforcement learning), 558
vanishing gradient problem, 19, 43, 49, 165, 211, 293, 323, 380
variance schedule, 428
VariationalAutoEncoder (deeplay), 182
variational autoencoder (VAE), 179–188, 188, 207
Vaswani, Ashish, 373
Velickovic, Petar, 528
vertex (graph), 476
VGG16, 147–149, 159, 402
vgg16() (torchvision), 147
VGG16_Weights (torchvision), 147
VideoCapture (cv2), 128
view() (torch), 160, 204, 205, 263, 315, 344, 366, 590
VirtualStainingDataset, 395–397, 398, 399
virtual staining with GAN, 394–409
vision transformer (ViT), 361–363, 374
Visual Studio (VS) Code, xxiv
ViT (deeplay), 362, 368
ViT architecture, 361
ViTImageProcessor (transformers ), 371
ViTModel (transformers), 370–371
Vocab, 303, 304, 305, 348, 454
vocabulary, 303, 348
vocabulary building (NLP), 303–306, 453–455
Volpe, Giovanni, 472
VS Code (Visual Studio Code), xxiv

--- Strana 953 ---
W
WassersteinAutoEncoder (deeplay), 191
Wasserstein autoencoder (WAE), 188–195, 207
Wasserstein distance, 188, 189
Watkins, Christopher J.C.H., 598
weight_decay (parameter Adam), 363, 368
weighted cross-entropy loss, 224
weighted loss function, 231
weight normalization/regularization, 18–19
weights (neuron), 2, 3
Welling, Max, 207, 527
Werbos, Paul John, 49
where() (numpy), 533, 541, 614
where() (torch), 263
Widrow, Bernard, 48
with (Python), 4. See also context manager
with Fwd_Hook, 154
with Fwd_Hooks, 157, 160, 162
with numpy.load(), 498
with open(), 3, 12, 81, 84, 85, 302, 307, 317, 451, 453, 498
with pandas.option_context(), 346, 357
with torch.no_grad(), 290, 314, 338, 339, 405, 435, 444, 509, 590,
592, 593
Z
Zalando, 189
Zemel, Richard S., 207
zero_() (torch), 150
zero_grad() (torch), 161, 289, 384, 403, 404, 416–417, 441, 462, 593

--- Strana 954 ---
Zhu, Jun-Yan, 424
ZINC (molecular properties) dataset, 483–486
Zisserman, Andrew, 165
OceanofPDF.com
