
--- Strana 1 ---
Citation: Hussain, M. YOLO-v1 to
YOLO-v8, the Rise of YOLO and Its
Complementary Nature toward
Digital Manufacturing and Industrial
Defect Detection. Machines 2023, 11,
677. https://doi.org/10.3390/
machines11070677
Academic Editor: Sang Do Noh
Received: 30 May 2023
Revised: 15 June 2023
Accepted: 21 June 2023
Published: 23 June 2023
Copyright:
© 2023 by the author.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed
under
the
terms
and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
machines
Review
YOLO-v1 to YOLO-v8, the Rise of YOLO and Its
Complementary Nature toward Digital Manufacturing and
Industrial Defect Detection
Muhammad Hussain
Department of Computer Science, School of Computing and Engineering, University of Huddersﬁeld,
Queensgate, Huddersﬁeld HD1 3DH, UK; m.hussain@hud.ac.uk
Abstract: Since its inception in 2015, the YOLO (You Only Look Once) variant of object detectors has
rapidly grown, with the latest release of YOLO-v8 in January 2023. YOLO variants are underpinned
by the principle of real-time and high-classiﬁcation performance, based on limited but efﬁcient
computational parameters. This principle has been found within the DNA of all YOLO variants
with increasing intensity, as the variants evolve addressing the requirements of automated quality
inspection within the industrial surface defect detection domain, such as the need for fast detection,
high accuracy, and deployment onto constrained edge devices. This paper is the ﬁrst to provide an
in-depth review of the YOLO evolution from the original YOLO to the recent release (YOLO-v8) from
the perspective of industrial manufacturing. The review explores the key architectural advancements
proposed at each iteration, followed by examples of industrial deployment for surface defect detection
endorsing its compatibility with industrial requirements.
Keywords: industrial defect detection; object detection; smart manufacturing; quality inspection
1. Introduction
Humans via the visual cortex, a primary cortical region of the brain responsible for
processing visual information [1], are able to observe, recognize [2], and differentiate
between objects instantaneously [3]. Studying the inner workings of the visual cortex and
the brain in general has paved the way for artiﬁcial neural networks (ANNs) [4] along
with a myriad of computational architectures residing under the deep learning umbrella.
In the last decade, owing to rapid and revolutionary advancements in the ﬁeld of deep
learning [5], researchers have exerted their efforts on providing efﬁcient simulation of the
human visual system to computers, i.e., enabling computers to detect objects of interest
within static images and video [6], a ﬁeld known as computer vision (CV) [7]. CV is
a prevalent research area for deep learning researchers and practitioners in the present
decade. It is composed of subﬁelds consisting of image classiﬁcation [8], object detection [9],
and object segmentation [10]. All three ﬁelds share a common architectural theme, namely,
manipulation of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) [11]. CNNs are accepted as the de
facto when dealing with image data. In comparison with conventional image processing
and artiﬁcial defection methods, CNNs utilize multiple convolutional layers coupled with
aggregation, i.e., pooling structures aiming to unearth deep semantic features hidden away
within the pixels of the image [12].
Artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) has found opportunities in industries across the spectrum
from renewable energy [13,14] and security to healthcare [15] and the education sector.
However, one industry that is poised for signiﬁcant automation through CV is the manu-
facturing industry. Quality inspection (QI) is an integral part of any manufacturing domain
providing integrity and conﬁdence to the clients on the quality of the manufactured prod-
ucts [16]. Manufacturing has wide scope for automation; however, when dealing with
surface inspection [17], defects can take sophisticated forms [18], making human-based
Machines 2023, 11, 677. https://doi.org/10.3390/machines11070677
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/machines

--- Strana 2 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
2 of 25
quality inspection a cumbersome task with manifold inefﬁciencies linked to human bias,
fatigue, cost, and downtime [19]. These inefﬁciencies provide an opportunity for CV-based
solutions to present automated quality inspection that can be integrated within existing
surface defect inspection processes, increasing efﬁciency whilst overcoming bottlenecks
presented via conventional inspection methodologies [20].
However, for success, CV-based architectures must conform to a stringent set of
deployment requirements that can vary from one manufacturing sector to another [21]. In
the majority of applications, the focus is not only on the determination of the defect, but also
on multiple defects along with the locality details of each [22]. Therefore, object detection
is preferred over image classiﬁcation since the latter only focuses on determination of
object within the image without providing any locality information. Architectures within
the object detection domain can be classiﬁed into single-stage or two-stage detectors [23].
Two-stage detectors split the detection process into two stages: Feature extraction/proposal
followed by regression and classiﬁcation for acquiring the output [24]. Although this can
provide high accuracy, it comes with a high computational demand making it inefﬁcient for
real-time deployment onto constrained edge devices. Single-stage detectors, on the other
hand, merge the two processes into one, enabling the classiﬁcation and regression via a
single pass, signiﬁcantly reduce the computational demand, and provide a more compelling
case for production-based deployment [25]. Although many single-stage detectors have
been introduced, such as single shot detector (SSD) [26], deconvolutional single shot
detector (D-SSD) [27], and RetinaNet [28], the YOLO (You Only Look Once) [29] family of
architectures seems to be gaining high traction due to its high compatibility with industrial
requirements, such as accuracy, lightweight, and edge-friendly deployment conditions.
The last half-a-decade has been dominated by the introduction of YOLO variants, with the
most recent variant introduced in 2022 as YOLO-v8.
To the best of our knowledge, there is no cohesive review of the advancing YOLO
variants, benchmarking technical advancements, and their implications on industrial
deployment. This paper reviews the YOLO variants released to the present date, focusing
on presenting the key technical contributions of each YOLO iteration and its impact on key
industrial metrics required for deployment, such as accuracy, speed, and computational
efﬁcacy. As a result, the aim is to provide researchers and practitioners with a better
understanding of the inner workings of each variant, enabling them to select the most
relevant architecture based on their industrial requirements. Additionally, literature on
the deployment of YOLO architectures for various industrial surface defect detection
applications is presented.
The subsequent structure of the review is as follows. The ﬁrst section provides an
introduction to single- and two-stage detectors and the anatomy for single-stage object
detectors. Next, the evolution of YOLO variants is presented, detailing the key contributions
from YOLO-v1 to YOLO-v8, followed by a review of the literature focused on YOLO-based
implementation of industrial surface defect detection. Finally, the discussion section
focuses on summarizing the reviewed literature, followed by extracted conclusions, future
directions, and challenges are presented.
Object Detection
CNNs can be categorized as convolution-based feed forward neural networks for
classiﬁcation purposes [30]. The input layer is followed by multiple convolutional layers
to acquire an increased set of smaller-scale feature maps. These feature maps post further
manipulation are transformed into one-dimensional feature vectors before being used as
input to the fully connected layer(s). The process of feature extraction and feature map
manipulation is vital to the overall accuracy of the network; therefore, this can involve the
stacking of multiple convolutional and pooling layers for richer feature maps. Popular
architectures for feature extraction include AlexNet [31], VGGNet [32], GoogleNet [33], and
ResNet [34]. AlexNet is proposed in 2012 and consists of ﬁve convolutional, three pooling,
and three fully connected layers primarily utilized for image classiﬁcation tasks. VGGNet

--- Strana 3 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
3 of 25
focused on performance enhancement by increasing the internal depth of the architecture,
introducing several variants with increased layers, VGG-16/19. GoogleNet introduced the
cascading concept by cascading multiple ‘inception’ modules, whilst ResNet introduced
the concept of skip-connections for preserving information and making it available from
the earlier to the later layers of the architecture.
The motive for an object detector is to infer whether the object(s) of interest are
residing in the image or present the frame of a video. If the object(s) of interest are
present, the detector returns the respective class and locality, i.e., location dimensions
of the object(s). Object detection can be further divided into two sub-categories: Two-
stage methods and one-stage methods as shown in Figure 1. The former initiates the
ﬁrst stage with the selection of numerous proposals, then in the second stage, performs
prediction on the proposed regions. Examples of two-stage detectors include the famous
R-CNN [35] variants, such as Fast R-CNN [36] and Faster R-CNN [37], boasting high
accuracies but low computational efﬁciency. The latter transforms the task into a regression
problem, eliminating the need for an initial stage dedicated to selecting candidate regions;
therefore, the candidate selection and prediction is achieved in a single pass. As a result,
architectures falling into this category are computationally less demanding, generating
higher FPS and detection speed, but in general the accuracy tends to be inferior with respect
to two-stage detectors.
 
Figure 1. Object detector anatomy.
2. Original YOLO Algorithm
YOLO was introduced to the computer vision community via a paper release in 2015 by
Joseph Redmon et al. [29] titled ‘You Only Look Once: Uniﬁed, Real-Time Object Detection’.
The paper reframed object detection, presenting it essentially as a single pass regression
problem, initiating with image pixels and moving to bounding box and class probabilities.
The proposed approach based on the ‘uniﬁed’ concept enabled the simultaneous prediction
of multiple bounding boxes and class probabilities, improving both speed and accuracy.
Since its inception in 2016 until the present year (2023), the YOLO family has continued
to evolve at a rapid pace. Although the initial author (Joseph Redmon) halted further work
within the computer vision domain at YOLO-v3 [38], the effectiveness and potential of
the core ‘uniﬁed’ concept have been further developed by several authors, with the latest
addition to the YOLO family coming in the form of YOLO-v8. Figure 2 presents the YOLO
evolution timeline.
2.1. Original YOLO
The core principle proposed by YOLO-v1 was the imposing of a grid cell with dimen-
sions of s×s onto the image. In the case of the center of the object of interest falling into one
of the grid cells, that particular grid cell would be responsible for the detection of that object.
This permitted other cells to disregard that object in the case of multiple appearances.

--- Strana 4 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
4 of 25
Figure 2. YOLO evolution timeline.
For implementation of object detection, each grid cell would predict B bounding boxes
along with the dimensions and conﬁdence scores. The conﬁdence score was indicative of
the absence or presence of an object within the bounding box. Therefore, the conﬁdence
score can be expressed as Equation (1):
con f idence score = p(object) ∗IoUtruth
pred
(1)
where p(object) signiﬁed the probability of the object being present, with a range of 0–1 with
0 indicating that the object is not present and IoUtruth
pred represented the intersection-over-
union with the predicted bounding box with respect to the ground truth bounding box.
Each bounding box consisted of ﬁve components (x, y, w, h, and the conﬁdence score)
with the ﬁrst four components corresponding to center coordinates (x, y, width, and height)
of the respective bounding box as shown in Figure 3.
 
Figure 3. YOLO-v1 preliminary architecture.

--- Strana 5 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
5 of 25
As alluded to earlier, the input image is split into s × s grid cells (default = 7 × 7),
with each cell predicting B bounding boxes, each containing ﬁve parameters and sharing
prediction probabilities of classes (C). Therefore, the parameter output would take the
following form, expressed in (2):
s × s × (5 ∗B + C)
(2)
Considering the example of YOLO network with each cell bounding box prediction
set to 2 and evaluating the benchmark COCO dataset consisting of 80 classes, the parameter
output would be given as expressed in (3):
7 × 7 × (5 ∗2 + 80)
(3)
The fundamental motive of YOLO and object detection in general is the object detection
and localization via bounding boxes. Therefore, two sets of bounding box vectors are
required, i.e., vector y is the representative of ground truth and vector
.y is the predicted
vector. To address multiple bounding boxes containing no object or the same object, YOLO
opts for non-maximum suppression (NMS). By deﬁning a threshold value for NMS, all
overlapping predicted bounding boxes with an IoU lower than the deﬁned NMS value
are eliminated.
The original YOLO based on the Darknet framework consisted of two sub-variants.
The ﬁrst architecture comprised of 24 convolutional layers with the ﬁnal layer providing
a connection into the ﬁrst of the two fully connected layers. Whereas the ‘Fast YOLO’
variant consisted of only nine convolutional layers hosting fewer ﬁlters each. Inspired
by the inception module in GoogleNet, a sequence of 1 × 1 convolutional layers was
implemented for reducing the resultant feature space from the preceding layers. The
preliminary architecture for YOLO-v1 is presented in Figure 3.
To address the issue of multiple bounding boxes for the same object or with a conﬁ-
dence score of zero, i.e., no object, the authors decided to greatly penalize predictions from
bounding boxes containing objects (γcoord = 5) and the lowest penalization for prediction
containing no object (γnoobj = 0.5). The authors calculated the loss function by taking
the sum of all bounding box parameters (x, y, width, height, conﬁdence score, and class
probability). As a result, the ﬁrst part of the equation computes the loss of the bounding box
prediction with respect to the ground truth bounding box based on the coordinates xcenter,
ycenter. 𝕝
obj
ij
is set as 1 in the case of the object residing within jth bounding box prediction in
ith cell; otherwise, it is set as 0. The selected, i.e., predicted bounding box would be tasked
with predicting an object with the greatest IoU, as expressed in (4):
γcoord∑
S2
i=0 ∑
B
j=0𝕝
obj
ij
h
(xi −ˆxi)2 + (yi −ˆyi)2i
(4)
The next component of the loss function computes the prediction error in width and
height of the bounding box, similar to the preceding component. However, the scale of
error in the large boxes has lesser impact compared to the small boxes. The normalization
of width and height between the range 0 and 1 indicates that their square roots increase
the differences for smaller values to a higher degree compared to that of larger values,
expressed as (5):
γcoord∑
S2
i=0 ∑
B
j=0𝕝
obj
ij
"√wi −
p
ˆwi
2
+
p
hi −
q
ˆhi
2#
(5)
Next, the loss of the conﬁdence score is computed based on whether the object is
present or absent with respect to the bounding box. Penalization of the object conﬁdence
error is only executed by the loss function if that predictor was responsible for the ground

--- Strana 6 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
6 of 25
truth bounding box. 𝕝
obj
ij
is set to 1 when the object is present in the cell; otherwise, it is set
as 0, whilst 𝕝
noobj
ij
works in the opposite way, as shown in (6):
∑
S2
i=0 ∑
B
j=0𝕝
obj
ij (ci −ˆci)2 + γnoobj∑
S2
i=0 ∑
B
j=0𝕝
noobj
ij
(xi −ˆxi)2 + (ci −ˆci)2
(6)
The last component of the loss function, similar to the normal classiﬁcation loss,
calculates the class (c) probability loss, except for the 𝕝
obj
ij
part, expressed in (7):
∑
S2
i=0𝕝
obj
ij ∑c∈classes
.
(pi(c)−𝑝𝑖(𝑐)
̂ )2
(7)
Performance wise, the simple YOLO (24 convolutional layers) when trained on the
PASCAL VOC dataset (2007 and 2012) [39,40] achieved a mean average precision (referring
to cross-class performance) (mAP) of 63.4% at 45 FPS, whilst Fast YOLO achieved 52.7%
mAP at an impressive 155 FPS. Although the performance was better than real-time
detectors, such as DPM-v5 [41] (33% mAP), it was lower than the state-of-the-art (SOTA) at
the time, i.e., Faster R-CNN (71% mAP).
There were some clear loopholes that required attention, such as the architecture
having comparatively low recall and higher localization error compared to Faster R-CNN.
Additionally, the architecture struggled to detect close proximity objects due to the fact that
each grid cell was capped to two bounding box proposals. The loopholes attributed to the
original YOLO provided inspiration for the following variants of YOLO.
2.2. YOLO-v2/9000
YOLO-v2/9000 was introduced by Joseph Redmon in 2016 [42]. The motive was
to remove or at least mitigate the inefﬁciencies observed with the original YOLO while
maintaining the impressive speed factor. Several enhancements were claimed through
the implementation of various techniques. Batch normalization [43] was introduced with
the internal architecture to improve model convergence, leading to faster training. This
introduction eliminated the need for other regularization techniques, such as dropout [44]
aimed at reducing overﬁtting [45]. Its effectiveness can be gauged by the fact that simply
introducing batch normalization improved the mAP by 2% compared to the original YOLO.
The original YOLO worked with an input image size of 224 × 224 pixels during
the training stage, whilst for the detection phase, input images could be scaled up to
448 × 448 pixels, enforcing the architecture to adjust to the varying image resolution,
which in turn decrease the mAP. To address this, the authors trained the architecture on
448 × 448 pixel images for 10 epochs on the ImageNet [46] dataset, providing the architec-
ture with the capacity to adjust the internal ﬁlters when dealing with higher resolution
images, resulting in an increased mAP of 4%. Whilst architectures, such as Fast and Faster
R-CNN predict coordinates directly from the convolutional network, the original YOLO
utilized fully connected layers to serve this purpose. YOLO-v2 replaced the fully connected
layer responsible for predicting bounding boxes by adding anchor boxes for bounding
box predictions. Anchor boxes [47] are essentially a list of predeﬁned dimensions (boxes)
aimed at best matching the objects of interest. Rather than manual determination of best-ﬁt
anchor boxes, the authors utilized k-means clustering [48] on the training set bounding
boxes, inclusive of the ground truth bounding boxes, grouping similar shapes and plotting
average IoU with respect to the closest centroid as shown in Figure 4. YOLO-v2 was trained
on different architectures, namely, VGG-16 and GoogleNet, in addition to the authors
proposing the Darknet-19 [49] architecture due to characteristics, such as reduced process-
ing requirements, i.e., 5.58 FLOPs compared to 30.69 FLOPs and 8.52 FLOPs on VGG-16
and GoogleNet, respectively. In terms of performance, YOLO-v2 provided 76.8 mAP at
67 FPS and 78.6 mAP at 40 FPS. The results demonstrated the architectures’ superiority
over SOTA architectures of that time, such as SSD and Faster R-CNN. YOLO-9000 utilized

--- Strana 7 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
7 of 25
YOLO-v2 architecture, aimed at real-time detection of more than 9000 different objects;
however, at a signiﬁcantly reduced mAP of 19.7%.
 
Figure 4. Dimension clusters vs. mAP.
2.3. YOLO-v3
Architectures, such as VGG, focused their development work around the concept that
deeper networks, i.e., more internal layers, equated to higher accuracy. YOLO-v2 also had
higher number of convolutional layers compared to its predecessor.
However, as the image progressed through the network, the progressive down sam-
pling resulted in the loss of ﬁne-grained features; therefore, YOLO-v2 often struggled
with detecting smaller objects. At the time research was active in addressing this issue,
as evident by the deployment of skip connections [50] embedded within the proposed
ResNet architecture, the focus was on addressing the vanishing gradient issue by facilitating
information propagation via skip connection, as presented in Figure 5.
Figure 5. Skip-connection conﬁguration.

--- Strana 8 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
8 of 25
YOLO-v3 proposed a hybrid architecture factoring in aspects of YOLO-v2, Darknet-
53 [51], and the ResNet concept of residual networks. This enabled the preservation of
ﬁne-grained features by allowing for the gradient ﬂow from shallow layers to deeper layers.
On top of the existing 53 layers of Darknet-53 for feature extraction, a stack of 53 addi-
tional layers was added for the detection head, totaling 106 convolutional layers for the
YOLO-v3. Additionally, YOLO-v3 facilitated multi-scale detection, namely, the architecture
made predictions at three different scales of granularity for outputting better performance,
increasing the probability of small object detection.
2.4. YOLO-v4
YOLO-v4 was the ﬁrst variant of the YOLO family after the original author discon-
tinued further work that was introduced to the computer vision community in April 2020
by Alexey Bochkovsky et al. [52]. YOLO-v4 was essentially the distillation of a large suite
of object detection techniques, tested and enhanced for providing a real-time, lightweight
object detector.
The backbone of an object detector has a critical role in the quality of features extracted.
In-line with the experimental spirit, the authors experimented with three different back-
bones: CSPResNext-50, CSPDarknet-53, and EfﬁcientNet-B3 [53]. The ﬁrst was based on
DenseNet [54] aimed at alleviating the vanishing gradient problem and bolstering feature
propagation and reuse, resulting in reduced number of network parameters. EfﬁcientNet
was proposed by Google Brain. The paper posits that an optima selection for parameters
when scaling CNNs can be ascertained through a search mechanism. After experimenting
with the above feature extractors, the authors based on their intuition and backed by their
experimental results selected CSPDarknet-53 as the ofﬁcial backbone for YOLO-v4.
For feature aggregation, the authors experimented with several techniques for integra-
tion at the neck level including feature pyramid network (FPN) [55] and path aggregation
network (PANet) [56]. Ultimately, the authors opted for PANet as the feature aggregator.
The modiﬁed PANet, as shown in Figure 6, utilized the concatenation mechanism. PANet
can be seen as an advanced version of FPN, namely, PANet proposed a bottom-up augmen-
tation path along with the top-down path (FPN), adding a ‘shortcut’ connection for linking
ﬁne-grained features from high- and low-level layers. Additionally, the authors introduced
a SPP [57] block post CSPDarknet-53 aimed at increasing the receptive ﬁeld and separation
of the important features arriving from the backbone.
 
Figure 6. Path aggregation. (a) Original PAN, (b) modiﬁed PAN.

--- Strana 9 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
9 of 25
The authors also introduced a bag-of-freebies, presented in Figure 7, primarily consist-
ing of augmentations, such as Mosaic aimed at improving performance without introducing
additional baggage onto the inference time. CIoU loss [58] was also introduced as a freebie,
focused on the overlap of the predicted and ground truth bounding box. In the case of no
overlap, the idea was to observe the closeness of the two boxes and encourage overlap if in
close proximity.
Figure 7. State-of-the-art optimization methodologies experimented in YOLO-v4 via bag-of-specials.
In addition to the bag-of-freebies, the authors introduced ‘bag-of-specials’, with the
authors claiming that although this set of optimization techniques presented in Figure 7
would marginally impact the inference time, they would signiﬁcantly improve the overall
performance. One of the components within the ‘bag-of-specials’ was the Mish [59] acti-
vation function aimed at moving feature creations toward their respective optimal points.
Cross mini-batch normalization [60] was also presented facilitating the running on any
GPU as many batch normalization techniques involve multiple GPUs operating in tandem.
2.5. YOLO-v5
The YOLO network in essence consists of three key pillars, namely, backbone for
feature extraction, neck focused on feature aggregation, and the head for consuming
output features from the neck as input and generating detections. YOLO-v5 [61] similar to
YOLO-v4, with respect to contributions, focus on the conglomeration and reﬁnement of
various computer vision techniques for enhancing performance. In addition, in less than
2 months after the release of YOLO-v4, Glenn Jocher open-sourced an implementation of
YOLO-v5 [61].
A notable mention is that YOLO-v5 was the ﬁrst native release of architectures be-
longing to the YOLO clan, to be written in PyTorch [62] rather than Darknet. Although
Darknet is considered as a ﬂexible low-level research framework, it was not purpose built
for production environments with a signiﬁcantly smaller number of subscribers due to
conﬁgurability challenges. PyTorch, on the other hand, provided an established eco-system,
with a wider subscription base among the computer vision community and provided the
supporting infrastructure for facilitating mobile device deployment.

--- Strana 10 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
10 of 25
In addition, another notable proposal was the ‘automated anchor box learning’ concept.
In YOLO-v2, the anchor box mechanism was introduced based on selecting anchor boxes
that closely resemble the dimensions of the ground truth boxes in the training set via
k-means. The authors select the ﬁve close-ﬁt anchor boxes based on the COCO dataset [63]
and implement them as default boxes. However, the application of this methodology to a
unique dataset with signiﬁcant object differentials compared to those present in the COCO
dataset can quickly expose the inability of the predeﬁned boxes to adapt quickly to the
unique dataset. Therefore, authors in YOLO-v5 integrated the anchor box selection process
into the YOLO-v5 pipeline. As a result, the network would automatically learn the best-ﬁt
anchor boxes for the particular dataset and utilize them during training to accelerate the
process. YOLO-v5 comes in several variants with respect to the computational parameters
as presented in Table 1.
Table 1. YOLO-v5 internal variant comparison.
Model
Average Precision (@50)
Parameters
FLOPs
YOLO-v5s
55.8%
7.5 M
13.2B
YOLO-v5m
62.4%
21.8 M
39.4B
YOLO-v5l
65.4%
47.8 M
88.1B
YOLO-v5x
66.9%
86.7 M
205.7B
YOLO-v5 comprised of a weight ﬁle equating to 27 MB compared to YOLO-v5l at 192
MB. Figure 8 demonstrates the superiority of YOLO-v5 over EfﬁcientDet [64].
 
Figure 8. YOLO-v5 variant comparison vs. EfﬁcientDet [61].
2.6. YOLO-v6
The initial codebase for YOLO-v6 [65] was released in June 2022 by the Meituan
Technical Team based in China. The authors focused their design strategy on producing an
industry-orientated object detector.
To meet industrial application requirements, the architecture would need to be highly
performant on a range of hardware options, maintaining high speed and accuracy. To
conform with the diverse set of industrial applications, YOLO-v6 comes in several variants
starting with YOLO-v6-nano as the fastest with the least number of parameters and reaching
YOLO-v6-large with high accuracy at the expense of speed, as shown in Table 2.

--- Strana 11 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
11 of 25
Table 2. YOLO-v6 variant comparison.
Variant
mAP 0.5:0.95
(COCO-val)
FPS Tesla T4
Parameters (Million)
YOLO-v6-N
35.9 (300 epochs)
802
4.3
YOLO-v6-T
40.3 (300 epochs)
449
15.0
YOLO-v6-RepOpt
43.3 (300 epochs)
596
17.2
YOLO-v6-S
43.5 (300 epochs)
495
17.2
YOLO-v6-M
49.7
233
34.3
YOLO-v6-L-ReLU
51.7
149
58.5
The impressive performance presented in Table 2 is a result of several innovations
integrated into the YOLO-v6 architecture. The key contributions can be summed into four
points. First, in contrast to its predecessors, YOLO-v6 opts for an anchor-free approach,
making it 51% faster when compared to anchor-based approaches.
Second, the authors introduced a revised reparametrized backbone and neck, proposed
as EfﬁcientRep backbone and Rep-PAN neck [66], namely, up to and including YOLO-v5,
the regression and classiﬁcation heads shared the same features. Breaking the convention,
YOLO-v6 implements the decoupled head as shown in Figure 9. As a result, the architecture
has additional layers separating features from the ﬁnal head, as empirically shown to
improve the performance. Third, YOLO-v6 mandates a two-loss function. Varifocal loss
(VFL) [67] is used as the classiﬁcation loss and distribution focal loss (DFL) [68], along with
SIoU/GIoU [69] as regression loss. VFL being a derivative of focal loss, treats positive
and negative samples at varying degrees of importance, helping in balancing the learning
signals from both sample types. DFL is deployed for box regression in YOLO-v6 medium
and large variants, treating the continuous distribution of the box locations as discretized
probability distribution, which is shown to be particularly efﬁcient when the ground truth
box boundaries are blurred.
Figure 9. YOLO-v6 model base architecture.
Additional improvements focused on industrial applications include the use of knowl-
edge distillation [70], involving a teacher model used for training a student model, where
the predictions of the teacher are used as soft labels along with the ground truth for training
the student. This comes without fueling the computational cost as essentially the aim is
to train a smaller (student) model to replicate the high performance of the larger (teacher)
model. Comparing the performance of YOLO-v6 with its predecessors, including YOLO-v5
on the benchmark COCO dataset in Figure 10, it is clear that YOLO-v6 achieves a higher
mAP at various FPS.

--- Strana 12 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
12 of 25
 
Figure 10. Relative evaluation of YOLO-v6 vs. YOLO-v5 [71].
2.7. YOLO-v7
The following month after the release of YOLO-v6, the YOLO-v7 was released [72].
Although other variants have been released in between, including YOLO-X [73] and YOLO-
R [74], these focused more on GPU speed enhancements with respect to inferencing. YOLO-
v7 proposes several architectural reforms for improving the accuracy and maintaining high
detection speeds. The proposed reforms can be split into two categories: Architectural
reforms and Trainable BoF (bag-of-freebies). Architectural reforms included the implemen-
tation of the E-ELAN (extended efﬁcient layer aggregation network) [75] in the YOLO-v7
backbone, taking inspiration from research advancements in network efﬁciency. The design
of the E-ELAN was guided by the analysis of factors that impact accuracy and speed, such
as memory access cost, input/output channel ratio, and gradient path.
The second architectural reform was presented as compound model scaling, as shown
in Figure 11. The aim was to cater for a wider scope of application requirements, i.e., certain
applications require accuracy to be prioritized, whilst others may prioritize speed. Although
NAS (network architecture search) [76] can be used for parameter-speciﬁc scaling to ﬁnd
the best factors, the scaling factors are independent [77]. Whereas the compound-scaling
mechanism allows for the width and depth to be scaled in coherence for concatenation-
based networks, maintaining optimal network architecture while scaling for different sizes.
Figure 11. YOLO-v7 compound scaling.

--- Strana 13 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
13 of 25
Re-parameterization planning is based on averaging a set of model weights to obtain a
more robust network [78,79]. Expanding further, module level re-parameterization enables
segments of the network to regulate their own parameterization strategies. YOLO-v7
utilizes gradient ﬂow propagation paths with the aim to observe which internal network
modules should deploy re-parameterization strategies.
The auxiliary head coarse-to-ﬁne concept is proposed on the premise that the network
head is quite far downstream; therefore, the auxiliary head is deployed at the middle layers
to assist in the training process. However, this would not train as efﬁciently as the lead
head, due to the former not having access to the complete network.
Figure 12 presents a performance comparison of YOLO-v7 with the preceding YOLO
variants on the MS COCO dataset. It is clear from Figure 12 that all YOLO-v7 variants
surpassed the compared object detectors in accuracy and speed in the range of 5–160 FPS.
It is, however, important to note, as mentioned by the authors of YOLO-v7, that none of
the YOLO-v7 variants are designed for CPU-based mobile device deployment. YOLO-
v7-tiny/v7/W6 variants are designed for edge GPU, consumer GPU, and cloud GPU,
respectively. Whilst YOLO-v7-E6/D6/E6E are designed for high-end cloud GPUs only.
Figure 12. YOLO-v7 comparison vs. other object detectors [72].
Internal variant comparison of YOLO-v7 is presented in Table 3. As evident, there is a
signiﬁcant performance gap with respect to mAP when comparing YOLO-v7-tiny with the
computationally demanding YOLO-v7-D6. However, the latter would not be suitable for
edge deployment onto a computationally constrained device.
Table 3. Variant comparison of YOLO-v7.
Model
Size (Pixels)
mAP (@50)
Parameters
FLOPs
YOLO-v7-tiny
640
52.8%
6.2 M
5.8G
YOLO-v7
640
69.7%
36.9 M
104.7G
YOLO-v7-X
640
71.1%
71.3 M
189.9G
YOLO-v7-E6
1280
73.5%
97.2 M
515.2G
YOLO-v7-D6
1280
73.8%
154.7 M
806.8G

--- Strana 14 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
14 of 25
2.8. YOLO-v8
The latest addition to the family of YOLO was conﬁrmed in January 2023 with the
release of YOLO-v8 [80] by Ultralytics (also released YOLO-v5). Although a paper release
is impending and many features are yet to be added to the YOLO-v8 repository, initial
comparisons of the newcomer against its predecessors demonstrate its superiority as the
new YOLO state-of-the-art.
Figure 13 demonstrates that when comparing YOLO-v8 against YOLO-v5 and YOLO-
v6 trained on 640 image resolution, all YOLO-v8 variants output better throughput with a
similar number of parameters, indicating toward hardware-efﬁcient, architectural reforms.
The fact that YOLO-v8 and YOLO-v5 are presented by Ultralytics with YOLO-v5 providing
impressive real-time performance and based on the initial benchmarking results released
by Ultralytics, it is strongly assumed that the YOLO-v8 will be focusing on constrained
edge device deployment at high-inference speed.
 
Figure 13. YOLO-v8 comparison with predecessors [80].
3. Industrial Defect Detection via YOLO
The previous section demonstrates the rapid evolution of the YOLO ‘clan’ of object
detectors amongst the computer vision community. This section of the review focuses
on the implementation of YOLO variants for the detection of surface defects within the
industrial setting. The selection of ‘industrial setting’ is due to its varying and stringent
requirements alternating between accuracy and speed, a theme which is found through
DNA of the YOLO variants.

--- Strana 15 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
15 of 25
3.1. Industrial Fabric Defect Detection
Rui Jin et al. [81] in their premise state the inefﬁciencies of manual inspection in the
textile manufacturing domain as high cost of labor, human-related fatigue, and reduced
detection speed (less than 20 m/min). The authors aim to address these inefﬁciencies by
proposing a YOLO-v5-based architecture, coupled with a spatial attention mechanism
for accentuation of smaller defective regions. The proposed approach involved a teacher
network trained on the fabric dataset. Post training of the teacher network, the learned
weights were distilled to the student network, which was compatible for deployment onto
a Jetson TX2 [82] via TensorRT [83]. The results presented by the authors show, as expected,
that the teacher network reported higher performance with an AUC of 98.1% compared to
95.2% (student network). However, as the student network was computationally smaller,
the inference time was signiﬁcantly less at 16 ms for the student network in contrast to the
teacher network at 35 ms on the Jetson TX2. Based on the performance, the authors claim
that the proposed solution provides high accuracy and real-time inference speed, making it
compatible for deployment via the edge device.
Sifundvoleshile Dlamini et al. [84] propose a production environment fabric defect
detection framework focused on real-time detection and accurate classiﬁcation on-site,
as shown in Figure 14. The authors embed conventional image processing at the onset
of their data enhancement strategy, i.e., ﬁltering to denoise feature enhancement. Post
augmentations and data scaling, the authors train the YOLO-v4 architecture based on
pretrained weights. The reported performance was respectable with an F1-score of 93.6%,
at an impressive detection speed of 34 fps and prediction speed of 21.4 ms. The authors
claim that the performance is evident to the effectiveness of the selected architecture for the
given domain.
Figure 14. Inspection machine integration [84].
Restricted by the available computing resources for edge deployment, Guijuan Lin et al. [85]
state problems with quality inspection in the fabric production domain, including minute
scale of defects, extreme unbalance with the aspect ratio of certain defects, and slow defect
detection speeds. To address these issues, the authors proposed a sliding-window, self-
attention (multihead) mechanism calibrated for small defect targets. Additionally, the Swin
Transformer [86] module as depicted in Figure 15 was integrated into the original YOLO-v5
architecture for the extraction of hierarchical features. Furthermore, the generalized focal
loss is implemented with the architecture aimed at improving the learning process for
positive target instances, whilst lowering the rate of missed detections. The authors report
the accuracy of the proposed solution on a real-world fabric dataset, reaching 76.5% mAP

--- Strana 16 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
16 of 25
at 58.8 FPS, making it compatible with the real-time detection requirements for detection
via embedded devices.
 
Figure 15. Backbone for Swin Transformer network [85].
3.2. Solar Cell Surface Defect Detection
Setting their premise, the authors [87] state that human-led Photovoltaic (PV) inspec-
tion has many drawbacks including the requirement of operation and maintenance (O&M)
engineers, cell-by-cell inspection, high workload, and reduced efﬁciency. The authors
propose an improved architecture based on YOLO-v5 for the characterization of complex
solar cell surface textures and defective regions. The proposal is based on the integration
of deformable convolution within the CSP module with the aim of achieving an adaptive
learning scale. Additionally, an attention mechanism is incorporated for enhanced feature
extraction. Moreover, the authors optimize the original YOLO-v5 architecture further via
K-means++ clustering for anchor box determination algorithm. Based on the presented
results, the improved architecture achieved a respectable mAP of 89.64% on an EL-based
solar cell image dataset, 7.85% higher compared to mAP for the original architecture, with
detection speed reaching 36.24 FPS, which can be translated as a more accurate detection
while remaining compatible with the real-time requirements.
Amran Binomairah et al. [88] highlight two frequent defects encountered during
the manufacturing process of crystalline solar cells as dark spot/region and microcracks.
The latter can have a detrimental impact on the performance of the module, which is
a major cause for PV module failures. The authors subscribe to the YOLO architecture,
comparing the performance of their methodology on YOLO-v4 and an improved YOLO-v4-
tiny integrated with a spatial pyramid pooling mechanism. Based on the presented results,
YOLO-v4 achieved 98.8% mAP at 62.9 ms, whilst the improved YOLO-v4-tiny lagged with
91% mAP at 28.2 ms. The authors claim that although the latter is less accurate, it is notably
faster than the former.
Tianyi Sun et al. [89] focus on automated hot-spot detection within PV cells based a
modiﬁed version of the YOLO-v5 architecture. The ﬁrst improvement comes in the form
of enhanced anchors and detection heads for the respective architecture. To improve the
detection precision at varying scales, k-means clustering [48] is deployed for clustering the
length–width ratio with respect to the data annotation frame. Additionally, a set of the
anchors consisting of smaller values were added to cater for the detection of small defects
by optimizing the cluster number. The reported performance of the improved architecture
was reported as 87.8% mAP, with the average recall rate of 89.0% and F1-score reaching

--- Strana 17 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
17 of 25
88.9%. The reported FPS was impressive reaching 98.6 FPS, with the authors claiming
that the proposed solution would provide intelligent monitoring at PV power stations.
Inferencing output presented in Figure 16 shows the proposed AP-YOLO-v5 architecture,
providing inferences at a higher conﬁdence level compared to the original YOLO-v5.
Figure 16. Inference/conﬁdence comparison [89].
3.3. Steel Surface Defect Detection
Dinming Yang et al. [90] set the premise of their research by stating the importance
of steel pipe quality inspection, citing the growing demand in countries, such as China.
Although X-ray testing is utilized as one of the key methods for industrial nondestructive
testing (NDT), the authors state that it still requires human assistance for the determination,
classiﬁcation, and localization of the defects. The authors propose the implementation of
YOLO-v5 for production-based weld steel defect detection based on X-ray images of the
weld pipe. The authors claim that the trained YOLO-v5 reached a mAP of 98.7% (IoU-0.5),
whilst meeting the real-time detection requirements of steel pipe production with a single
image detection rate of 0.12 s.
Zhuxi MA et al. [91] address the issue of large-scale computation and speciﬁc hard-
ware requirements for automated defect detection in aluminum strips. The authors select
YOLO-v4 as the architecture, whilst the backbone is constructed to make use of depth-
wise separable convolutions along with a parallel dual attention mechanism for feature
enhancement, as shown in Figure 17. The proposed network is tested on real data from
a cold-rolling workshop, providing impressive results on real data achieving an mAP of
96.28%. Compared to the original YOLO-v4, the authors claim that the proposed architec-
ture volume is reduced by 83.38%, whilst the inference speed is increased by a factor of
three. The increase in performance was partly due to the custom anchor approach, whereby
due to the maximum aspect ratio of the custom dataset, the defect was set to 1:20 which is
in-line with the defect characteristics, such as scratch marks.

--- Strana 18 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
18 of 25
Figure 17. Proposed parallel network structure [91].
Jianting Shi et al. [92] cite the manufacturing process of steel production as the reason
for various defects originating on the steel surface, such as rolling scale and patches. The
authors state that the small dimensions of the defects as well as the stringent detection
requirements make the quality inspection process a challenging task. Therefore, the authors
present an improved version of YOLO-v5 by incorporating an attention mechanism for
facilitating the transmission of shallow features from the backbone to the neck, preserving
the defective regions, in addition to k-means clustering of anchor boxes for addressing
the extreme aspect ratios of defective targets within the dataset. The authors state that the
improved architecture achieved 86.35% mAP reaching 45 FPS detection speed, whilst the
original architecture achieved 81.78% mAP at 52 FPS.
3.4. Pallet Racking Defect Inspection
A promising application with significant deployment scope in the warehousing
and general industrial storage centers is automated pallet racking inspection. Ware-
houses and distribution centers host a critical infrastructure known as racking for stock
storage. Unnoticed damage to pallet racking can pave the way for significant losses
initiated by racking collapse leading to wasted/damaged stock, financial implications,
operational losses, injured employees, and worst-case, loss of lives [93]. Due to the
inefficiencies of the conventional racking inspection mechanisms, such as human-led
annual inspection resulting in labor costs, bias, fatigue, and mechanical products, such
as rackguards [94] lacking classification intelligence, CNN-based automated detection
seems to be a promising alternative.
Realizing the potential, Hussain et al. [95] inaugurated research into automated pallet
racking detection via computer vision. After presenting their initial research based on the
MobileNet-V2 architecture, the authors recently proposed the implementation of YOLO-
v7 for automated pallet racking inspection [96]. The selection of the architecture was
in-line with the stringent requirements of production ﬂoor deployment, i.e., edge device
deployment, placed onto an operating forklift, requiring real-time detection as the forklift

--- Strana 19 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
19 of 25
approaches the racking. Evaluating the performance of the proposed solution on a real
dataset, the authors claimed an impressive performance of 91.1% mAP running at 19 FPS.
Table 4 presents a comparison of the present research in this emerging ﬁeld. Although
mask R-CNN presents the highest accuracy, which is a derivative of the segmentation
family of architectures with signiﬁcant computational load, this makes it an infeasible
option for deployment. Whereas the proposed approach utilizing YOLO-v7 achieved
similar accuracy compared to MobileNet-V2, whilst requiring signiﬁcantly less training
data along with inferencing at 19 FPS.
Table 4. Racking domain research comparison.
Research
Architecture
Dataset Size
Accuracy
FPS
[95]
MobileNet-V2
19,717
92.7%
-----
[96]
YOLO-v7
2095
91.1%
19
[97]
Mask-RCNN
75
93.45%
-----
4. Discussion
The YOLO family of object detectors has had a signiﬁcant impact on improving the
potential of computer vision applications. Right from the onset, i.e., the release of the
YOLO-v1 in 2015, signiﬁcant breakthroughs were introduced. YOLO-v1 became the ﬁrst
architecture combining the two conventionally separate tasks of bounding box prediction
and classiﬁcation into one. YOLO-v2 was released in the following year, introducing archi-
tectural improvements and iterative improvements, such as batch normalization, higher
resolution, and anchor boxes. In 2018, YOLO-v3 was released, an extension of previous
variants with enhancements including the introduction of objectness scores for bounding
box predictions added connections for the backbone layers and the ability to generate
predictions at three different levels of granularity, leading to improved performance on
smaller object targets.
After a short delay, YOLO-v4 was released in April 2020, becoming the ﬁrst variant of
the YOLO family not to be authored by the original author Joseph Redmon. Enhancements
included improved feature aggregation, gifting of the ‘bag of freebies’, and the mish
activation. In a matter of months, YOLO-v5 entered the computer vision territory, becoming
the ﬁrst variant to be released without being accompanied by a paper release. YOLO-v5
based on PyTorch, with an active GitHub repo further delineated the implementation
process, make it accessible to a wider audience. Focused on internal architectural reforms,
YOLO-v6 authors redesigned the backbone (EfﬁcientRep) and neck (Rep-PAN) modules,
with an inclination toward hardware efﬁciency. Additionally, anchor-free and the concept
of decoupled head was introduced, implying additional layers for feature separation from
the ﬁnal head, which is empirically shown to improve the overall performance. The authors
of YOLO-v7 also focused on architectural reforms, considering the amount of memory
required to keep layers within memory and the distance required for gradients to back-
propagate, i.e., shorter gradients, resulting in enhanced learning capacity. For the ultimate
layer aggregation, the authors implemented E-ELAN, which is an extension of the ELAN
computational block. The advent of 2023 introduced the latest version of the YOLO family,
YOLO-v8, which was released by Ultralytics. With an impending paper release, initial
comparisons of the latest version against predecessors have shown promising performance
with respect to throughput when compared to similar computational parameters.
4.1. Reason for Rising Popularity
Table 5 presents a summary of the reviewed YOLO variants based on the underlying
framework, backbone, average-precision (AP), and key contributions. It can be observed
from Table 3 that as the variants evolved there was a shift from the conservative Darknet
framework to a more accessible one, i.e., PyTorch. The AP presented here is based on
COCO-2017 [63] with the exception of YOLO-v1/v2, which are based on VOC-2017 [39].

--- Strana 20 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
20 of 25
COCO-2017 [63] consists of over 80 objects designed to represent a vast array of regularly
seen object. It contains 121,408 images resulting in 883,331 object annotations with median
image ratio of 640 × 480 pixels. It is important to note that the overall accuracy along with
inference capacity depends on the deployed design/training strategies, as demonstrated in
the industrial surface detection section.
Table 5. Abstract variant comparison.
Variant
Framework
Backbone
AP (%)
Comments
V1
Darknet
Darknet-24
63.4
Only detect a maximum of two objects in the same grid.
V2
Darknet
Darknet-24
63.4
Introduced batch norm, k-means clustering for anchor boxes.
Capable of detecting > 9000 categories.
V3
Darknet
Darknet-53
36.2
Utilized multi-scale predictions and spatial pyramid pooling
leading to larger receptive ﬁeld.
V4
Darknet
CSPDarknet-53
43.5
Presented bag-of-freebies including the use of CIoU loss.
V5
PyTorch
Modiﬁed CSPv7
55.8
First variant based in PyTorch, making it available to a wider
audience. Incorporated the anchor selection processes into
the YOLO-v5 pipeline.
V6
PyTorch
EfﬁcientRep
52.5
Focused on industrial settings, presented an anchor-free
pipeline. Presented new loss determination mechanisms
(VFL, DFL, and SIoU/GIoU).
V7
PyTorch
RepConvN
56.8
Architectural introductions included E-ELAN for faster
convergence along with a bag-of-freebies including
RepConvN and reparameterization-planning.
V8
PyTorch
YOLO-v8
53.9
Anchor-free reducing the number of prediction boxes whilst
speeding up non-maximum suppression. Pending paper for
further architectural insights.
The AP metric consists of precision-recall (PR) metrics, deﬁning of a positive prediction
using Intersection over Union, and the handling of multiple object categories. AP provides
a balanced overview of PR based on the area under the PR curve. IoU facilitates the
quantiﬁcation of similarity between predicted kp and ground truth kg bounding boxes as
expressed in (8):
IoU = area
 kp ∩kg

area
 kp ∪kg

(8)
The rise of YOLO can be attributed to two factors. First, the fact that the architectural
composition of YOLO variants is compatible for one-stage detection and classiﬁcation
makes it computationally lightweight with respect to other detectors. However, we feel
that efﬁcient architectural composition by itself did not drive the popularity of the YOLO
variants, as other single-stage detectors, such as MobileNets, also serve a similar purpose.
The second reason is the accessibility factor, which was introduced as the YOLO
variants progressed, with YOLO-v5 being the turning point. Expanding further on this
point, the ﬁrst two variants were based on the Darknet framework. Although this pro-
vided a degree of ﬂexibility, accessibility was limited to a smaller user base due to the
required expertise. Ultralytics, introduced YOLO-v5 based on the PyTorch framework,
making the architecture available for a wider audience and increasing the potential domain
of applications.
As evident from Table 6, the migration to a more accessible framework coupled with
architectural reforms for improved real-time performance sky-rocketed. At present, YOLO-
v5 has 34.7 k stars, a signiﬁcant lead compared to its predecessors. From implementation,
YOLO-v5 only required the installation of lightweight python libraries. The architectural
reforms indicated that the model training time was reduced, which in turn reduced the ex-
perimentation cost attributed to the training process, i.e., GPU utilization. For deployment
and testing purposes, researchers have several routes, such as individual/batch images,
video/webcam feeds, in addition to simple weight conversion to ONXX weights for edge
device deployment.

--- Strana 21 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
21 of 25
Table 6. GitHub popularity comparison.
YOLO Variant
Stars (K)
V3
9.3
V4
20.2
V5
34.7
V6
4.6
V7
8.4
V8
2.9
4.2. YOLO and Industrial Defect Detection
Manifestations of the fourth industrial revolution can be observed at present in an
ad-hoc manner, spanning across various industries. With respect to the manufacturing
industry, this revolution can be targeted at the quality inspection processes, which are
vital for assuring efﬁciency and retaining client satisfaction. When focusing on surface
defect detection, as alluded to earlier, the inspection requirements can be more stringent
as compared to other applications. This is due to many factors, such as the fact that the
defects may be extremely small, requiring external spectral imaging to expose defects prior
to classiﬁcation and due to the fact that the operational setting of the production line may
only provide a small-time window within which inference must be carried out.
Considering the stringent requirements outlined above and benchmarking against the
principles of YOLO family of variants, forms the conclusion that the YOLO variants have the
potential to address both real-time, constrained deployment and small-scale defect detec-
tion requirements of industrial-based surface defect detection. YOLO variants have proven
real-time compliance in several industrial environments as shown in [81,84,85,90,95]. An
interesting observation arising from the industrial literature reviewed is the ability for users
to modify the internal modules of YOLO variants in order to take care of their speciﬁc ap-
plication needs without compromising on real-time compliance, for example [81,87,91,92],
introducing attention-mechanisms for accentuation of defective regions.
An additional factor, found within the later YOLO variants is sub-variants for each
base architecture, i.e., for YOLO-v5 variants including YOLO-v5-S/M/L, this corresponds
to different computational loads with respect to the number of parameters. This ﬂexibility
enables researchers to consider a more ﬂexible approach with the architecture selection
criteria based on the industrial requirements, i.e., if real-time inference is required with less
emphasis on optimal mAP, a lightweight variant can be selected, such as YOLO-v5-small
rather than YOLO-v5-large.
5. Conclusions
In conclusion, this work is the ﬁrst of its type focused on documenting and reviewing
the evolution of the most prevalent single-stage object detector within the computer vision
domain. The review presents the key advancements of each variant, followed by imple-
mentation of YOLO architectures within various industrial settings focused on surface
automated real-time surface defect detection.
From the review, it is clear as the YOLO variants have progressed, latter versions in
particular, YOLO-v5 has focused on constrained edge deployment, a key requirement for
many manufacturing applications. Due to the fact that there is no copyright and patent
restrictions, research anchored around the YOLO architecture, i.e., real-time, lightweight,
accurate detection, can be conducted by any individual or research organization, which has
also contributed to the prevalence of this variant.
With YOLO-v8 released in January 2023, showing promising performance with respect
to throughput and computational load requirements, it is envisioned that 2023 will see
more variants released by previous or new authors focused on improving the deployment
capacity of the architectures with respect to constrained deployment environments.
With research organizations, such as Ultralytics and Meituan Technical Team taking
a keen interest in the development of YOLO architectures with a focus on edge-friendly

--- Strana 22 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
22 of 25
deployment, we anticipate further technological advancements in the architectural footprint
of YOLO. To cater for constrained deployment, these advancements will need to focus on
energy conservation whilst maintaining high inference rates. Furthermore, we envision
the proliferation of YOLO architectures into production facilities to help with quality
inspection pipelines as well as providing stimulus for innovative products as demonstrated
by [96] with an automated pallet racking inspection solution. Along with integration
into a diverse set of hardware and IoT devices, YOLO has the potential to tap into new
domains where computer vision can assist in enhancing existing processes whilst requiring
limited resources.
Funding: This research received no external funding.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1.
Zhang, B.; Quan, C.; Ren, F. Study on CNN in the recognition of emotion in audio and images. In Proceedings of the 2016
IEEE/ACIS 15th International Conference on Computer and Information Science (ICIS), Okayama, Japan, 26–29 June 2016.
[CrossRef]
2.
Pollen, D.A. Explicit neural representations, recursive neural networks and conscious visual perception. Cereb. Cortex 2003, 13,
807–814. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
3.
Using artiﬁcial neural networks to understand the human brain. Res. Featur. 2022. [CrossRef]
4.
Improvement of Neural Networks Artiﬁcial Output. Int. J. Sci. Res. (IJSR) 2017, 6, 352–361. [CrossRef]
5.
Dodia, S.; Annappa, B.; Mahesh, P.A. Recent advancements in deep learning based lung cancer detection: A systematic review.
Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell. 2022, 116, 105490. [CrossRef]
6.
Ojo, M.O.; Zahid, A. Deep Learning in Controlled Environment Agriculture: A Review of Recent Advancements, Challenges and
Prospects. Sensors 2022, 22, 7965. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
7.
Jarvis, R.A. A Perspective on Range Finding Techniques for Computer Vision. IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 1983, PAMI-5,
122–139. [CrossRef]
8.
Hussain, M.; Bird, J.; Faria, D.R. A Study on CNN Transfer Learning for Image Classiﬁcation. 11 August 2018. Available online:
https://research.aston.ac.uk/en/publications/a-study-on-cnn-transfer-learning-for-image-classiﬁcation (accessed on 1 January
2023).
9.
Yang, R.; Yu, Y. Artiﬁcial Convolutional Neural Network in Object Detection and Semantic Segmentation for Medical Imaging
Analysis. Front. Oncol. 2021, 11, 638182. [CrossRef]
10.
Haupt, J.; Nowak, R. Compressive Sampling vs. Conventional Imaging. In Proceedings of the 2006 International Conference on
Image Processing, Las Vegas, NV, USA, 26–29 June 2006; pp. 1269–1272. [CrossRef]
11.
Gu, J.; Wang, Z.; Kuen, J.; Ma, L.; Shahroudy, A.; Shuai, B.; Liu, T.; Wang, X.; Wang, G.; Cai, J.; et al. Recent advances in
convolutional neural networks. Pattern Recognit. 2018, 77, 354–377. [CrossRef]
12.
Perez, H.; Tah, J.H.M.; Mosavi, A. Deep Learning for Detecting Building Defects Using Convolutional Neural Networks. Sensors
2019, 19, 3556. [CrossRef]
13.
Hussain, M.; Al-Aqrabi, H.; Hill, R. PV-CrackNet Architecture for Filter Induced Augmentation and Micro-Cracks Detection
within a Photovoltaic Manufacturing Facility. Energies 2022, 15, 8667. [CrossRef]
14.
Hussain, M.; Dhimish, M.; Holmes, V.; Mather, P. Deployment of AI-based RBF network for photovoltaics fault detection
procedure. AIMS Electron. Electr. Eng. 2020, 4, 1–18. [CrossRef]
15.
Hussain, M.; Al-Aqrabi, H.; Munawar, M.; Hill, R.; Parkinson, S. Exudate Regeneration for Automated Exudate Detection in
Retinal Fundus Images. IEEE Access 2022. [CrossRef]
16.
Hussain, M.; Al-Aqrabi, H.; Hill, R. Statistical Analysis and Development of an Ensemble-Based Machine Learning Model for
Photovoltaic Fault Detection. Energies 2022, 15, 5492. [CrossRef]
17.
Singh, S.A.; Desai, K.A. Automated surface defect detection framework using machine vision and convolutional neural networks.
J. Intell. Manuf. 2022, 34, 1995–2011. [CrossRef]
18.
Weichert, D.; Link, P.; Stoll, A.; Rüping, S.; Ihlenfeldt, S.; Wrobel, S. A review of machine learning for the optimization of
production processes. Int. J. Adv. Manuf. Technol. 2019, 104, 1889–1902. [CrossRef]
19.
Wang, J.; Ma, Y.; Zhang, L.; Gao, R.X.; Wu, D. Deep learning for smart manufacturing: Methods and applications. J. Manuf. Syst.
2018, 48, 144–156. [CrossRef]
20.
Weimer, D.; Scholz-Reiter, B.; Shpitalni, M. Design of deep convolutional neural network architectures for automated feature
extraction in industrial inspection. CIRP Ann. 2016, 65, 417–420. [CrossRef]
21.
Kusiak, A. Smart manufacturing. Int. J. Prod. Res. 2017, 56, 508–517. [CrossRef]

--- Strana 23 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
23 of 25
22.
Yang, J.; Li, S.; Wang, Z.; Dong, H.; Wang, J.; Tang, S. Using Deep Learning to Detect Defects in Manufacturing: A Comprehensive
Survey and Current Challenges. Materials 2020, 13, 5755. [CrossRef]
23.
Soviany, P.; Ionescu, R.T. Optimizing the Trade-Off between Single-Stage and Two-Stage Deep Object Detectors using Image
Difﬁculty Prediction. In Proceedings of the 2018 20th International Symposium on Symbolic and Numeric Algorithms for
Scientiﬁc Computing (SYNASC), Timisoara, Romania, 20–23 September 2018. [CrossRef]
24.
Du, L.; Zhang, R.; Wang, X. Overview of two-stage object detection algorithms. J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 2020, 1544, 012033. [CrossRef]
25.
Sultana, F.; Suﬁan, A.; Dutta, P. A Review of Object Detection Models Based on Convolutional Neural Network. In Advances in
Intelligent Systems and Computing; Springer: Singapore, 2020; pp. 1–16. [CrossRef]
26.
Liu, W.; Anguelov, D.; Erhan, D.; Szegedy, C.; Reed, S.; Fu, C.Y.; Berg, A.C. SSD: Single shot multibox detector. In Proceedings of
the Computer Vision—ECCV 2016, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 11–14 October 2016; pp. 21–37. [CrossRef]
27.
Fu, C.Y.; Liu, W.; Ranga, A.; Tyagi, A.; Berg, A.C. DSSD: Deconvolutional Single Shot Detector. arXiv 2017, arXiv:1701.06659.
28.
Cheng, X.; Yu, J. RetinaNet with Difference Channel Attention and Adaptively Spatial Feature Fusion for Steel Surface Defect
Detection. IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas. 2020, 70, 2503911. [CrossRef]
29.
Redmon, J.; Divvala, S.; Girshick, R.; Farhadi, A. You Only Look Once: Uniﬁed, Real-Time Object Detection. In Proceedings of the
2016 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Las Vegas, NV, USA, 27–30 June 2016; pp. 779–788.
[CrossRef]
30.
Wang, Z.J.; Turko, R.; Shaikh, O.; Park, H.; Das, N.; Hohman, F.; Kahng, M.; Chau, D.H.P. CNN Explainer: Learning Convolutional
Neural Networks with Interactive Visualization. IEEE Trans. Vis. Comput. Graph. 2020, 27, 1396–1406. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
31.
Krizhevsky, A.; Sutskever, I.; Hinton, G.E. Imagenet classiﬁcation with deep convolutional neural networks. Commun. ACM 2017,
60, 84–90. [CrossRef]
32.
Simonyan, K.; Zisserman, A. Very Deep Convolutional Networks for Large-Scale Image Recognition. arXiv 2014, arXiv:1409.1556.
33.
Szegedy, C.; Liu, W.; Jia, Y.; Sermanet, P.; Reed, S.; Anguelov, D.; Rabinovich, A. Going deeper with convolutions. In Proceedings
of the Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Boston, MA, USA, 12 June 2015.
34.
He, K.; Zhang, X.; Ren, S.; Sun, J. Deep residual learning for image recognition. In Proceedings of the Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, Las Vegas, NV, USA, 30 June 2016.
35.
Girshick, R.; Donahue, J.; Darrell, T.; Malik, J. Region-Based Convolutional Networks for Accurate Object Detection and
Segmentation. IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 2015, 38, 142–158. [CrossRef]
36.
Girshick, R. Fast R-CNN. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Computer Vision, Santiago, Chile, 7–13 December
2015.
37.
Ren, S.; He, K.; Girshick, R.; Sun, J. Faster R-CNN: Towards real-time object detection with region proposal networks. Trans.
Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 2017, 39, 1137–1149. [CrossRef]
38.
Vidyavani, A.; Dheeraj, K.; Reddy, M.R.M.; Kumar, K.N. Object Detection Method Based on YOLOv3 using Deep Learning
Networks. Int. J. Innov. Technol. Explor. Eng. 2019, 9, 1414–1417. [CrossRef]
39.
Everingham, M.; Van Gool, L.; Williams, C.K.I.; Winn, J.; Zisserman, A. The Pascal Visual Object Classes (VOC) Challenge. Int. J.
Comput. Vis. 2009, 88, 303–338. [CrossRef]
40.
Shetty, S. Application of Convolutional Neural Network for Image Classiﬁcation on Pascal VOC Challenge 2012 dataset.
arXiv 2016, arXiv:1607.03785.
41.
Felzenszwalb, P.F.; Girshick, R.B.; McAllester, D.; Ramanan, D. Object Detection with Discriminatively Trained Part-Based Models.
IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 2009, 32, 1627–1645. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
42.
Chang, Y.-L.; Anagaw, A.; Chang, L.; Wang, Y.C.; Hsiao, C.-Y.; Lee, W.-H. Ship Detection Based on YOLOv2 for SAR Imagery.
Remote Sens. 2019, 11, 786. [CrossRef]
43.
Liao, Z.; Carneiro, G. On the importance of normalisation layers in deep learning with piecewise linear activation units. In
Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision (WACV), New York, NY, USA, 7–10 March
2016. [CrossRef]
44.
Garbin, C.; Zhu, X.; Marques, O. Dropout vs. batch normalization: An empirical study of their impact to deep learning. Multimed.
Tools Appl. 2020, 79, 12777–12815. [CrossRef]
45.
Li, G.; Jian, X.; Wen, Z.; AlSultan, J. Algorithm of overﬁtting avoidance in CNN based on maximum pooled and weight decay.
Appl. Math. Nonlinear Sci. 2022, 7, 965–974. [CrossRef]
46.
Deng, J.; Dong, W.; Socher, R.; Li, L.J.; Li, K.; Fei-Fei, L. Imagenet: A large-scale hierarchical image database. In Proceedings of the
2009 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Miami, FL, USA, 20–25 June 2009.
47.
Xue, J.; Cheng, F.; Li, Y.; Song, Y.; Mao, T. Detection of Farmland Obstacles Based on an Improved YOLOv5s Algorithm by Using
CIoU and Anchor Box Scale Clustering. Sensors 2022, 22, 1790. [CrossRef]
48.
Ahmed, M.; Seraj, R.; Islam, S.M.S. The k-means Algorithm: A Comprehensive Survey and Performance Evaluation. Electronics
2020, 9, 1295. [CrossRef]
49.
Redmon, J. Darknet: Open Source Neural Networks in C. 2013. Available online: https://pjreddie.com/darknet (accessed on
1 January 2023).
50.
Furusho, Y.; Ikeda, K. Theoretical analysis of skip connections and batch normalization from generalization and optimization
perspectives. APSIPA Trans. Signal Inf. Process. 2020, 9, e9. [CrossRef]

--- Strana 24 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
24 of 25
51.
Machine-Learning System Tackles Speech and Object Recognition. Available online: https://news.mit.edu/machine-learning-
image-object-recognition-918 (accessed on 1 January 2023).
52.
Bochkovskiy, A.; Wang, C.Y.; Liao HY, M. YOLOv4:
Optimal Speed and Accuracy of Object Detection.
arXiv 2020,
arXiv:2004.10934.
53.
Tan, M.; Le, Q. EfﬁcientNet: Rethinking model scaling for convolutional neural networks. In Proceedings of the International
Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), Long Beach, CA, USA, 9–15 June 2019.
54.
Huang, G.; Liu, Z.; Van Der Maaten, L.; Weinberger, K.Q. Densely connected convolutional networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Honolulu, HI, USA, 21–26 July 2017; pp. 4700–4708.
55.
Lin, T.Y.; Dollár, P.; Girshick, R.; He, K.; Hariharan, B.; Belongie, S. Feature pyramid networks for object detection. In Proceedings
of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Honolulu, HI, USA, 21–26 July 2017; pp. 2117–2125.
56.
Liu, S.; Qi, L.; Qin, H.; Shi, J.; Jia, J. Path aggregation network for instance segmentation. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Salt Lake City, UT, USA, 18–23 June 2018; pp. 8759–8768.
57.
He, K.; Zhang, X.; Ren, S.; Sun, J. Spatial Pyramid Pooling in Deep Convolutional Networks for Visual Recognition. IEEE Trans.
Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 2015, 37, 1904–1916. [CrossRef]
58.
Zheng, Z.; Wang, P.; Liu, W.; Li, J.; Ye, R.; Ren, D. Distance-IoU Loss: Faster and better learning for bounding box regression. In
Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AAAI), New York, NY, USA, 7–12 February 2020.
59.
Misra, D. Mish: A self regularized nonmonotonic neural activation function. arXiv 2019, arXiv:1908.08681.
60.
Yao, Z.; Cao, Y.; Zheng, S.; Huang, G.; Lin, S. Cross-Iteration Batch Normalization. arXiv 2020, arXiv:2002.05712.
61.
Ultralytics. YOLOv5 2020. Available online: https://github.com/ultralytics/yolov5 (accessed on 1 January 2023).
62.
Jocher, G.; Stoken, A.; Borovec, J.; Christopher, S.T.A.N.; Laughing, L.C. Ultralytics/yolov5: v4.0-nn.SiLU() Activations, Weights
& Biases Logging, PyTorch Hub Integration. Zenodo 2021. Available online: https://zenodo.org/record/4418161 (accessed on
5 January 2023).
63.
Lin, T.Y.; Maire, M.; Belongie, S.; Hays, J.; Perona, P.; Ramanan, D.; Zitnick, C.L. Microsoft coco: Common objects in context. In
Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision, Zurich, Switzerland, 6–12 September 2014.
64.
Tan, M.; Pang, R.; Le, Q.V. EfﬁcientDet: Scalable and Efﬁcient Object Detection. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Seattle, WA, USA, 13–19 June 2020.
65.
Li, C.; Li, L.; Jiang, H.; Weng, K.; Geng, Y.; Li, L.; Wei, X. YOLOv6: A Single-Stage Object Detection Framework for Industrial
Applications. arXiv 2022, arXiv:2209.02976.
66.
Ding, X.; Zhang, X.; Ma, N.; Han, J.; Ding, G.; Sun, J. Repvgg: Making vgg-style convnets great again. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Nashville, TN, USA, 20–25 June 2021; pp. 13733–13742.
67.
Zhang, H.; Wang, Y.; Dayoub, F.; Sunderhauf, N. Varifocalnet: An iou-aware dense object detector. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Nashville, TN, USA, 20–25 June 2021; pp. 8514–8523.
68.
Li, X.; Wang, W.; Wu, L.; Chen, S.; Hu, X.; Li, J.; Yang, J. Generalized focal loss: Learning qualiﬁed and distributed bounding
boxes for dense object detection. Adv. Neural Inf. Process. Syst. 2020, 33, 21002–21012.
69.
Gevorgyan, Z. Siou loss: More powerful learning for bounding box regression. arXiv 2022, arXiv:2205.12740.
70.
Shu, C.; Liu, Y.; Gao, J.; Yan, Z.; Shen, C. Channel-wise knowledge distillation for dense prediction. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, Montreal, BC, Canada, 11–17 October 20221; pp. 5311–5320.
71.
Solawetz, J.; Nelson, J. What’s New in YOLOv6? 4 July 2022. Available online: https://blog.roboﬂow.com/yolov6/ (accessed on
1 January 2023).
72.
Wang, C.Y.; Bochkovskiy, A.; Liao HY, M. YOLOv7: Trainable bag-of-freebies sets new state-of-the-art for real-time object detectors.
arXiv 2022, arXiv:2207.02696.
73.
Ge, Z.; Liu, S.; Wang, F.; Li, Z.; Sun, J. YOLOX: Exceeding YOLO series in 2021. arXiv 2021, arXiv:2107.08430.
74.
Wang, C.-Y.; Yeh, I.-H.; Liao, H.-Y.M. You only learn one representation: Uniﬁed network for multiple tasks. arXiv 2021,
arXiv:2105.04206.
75.
Wu, W.; Zhao, Y.; Xu, Y.; Tan, X.; He, D.; Zou, Z.; Ye, J.; Li, Y.; Yao, M.; Dong, Z.; et al. DSANet: Dynamic Segment AggrDSANet:
Dynamic Segment Aggregation Network for Video-Level Representation Learning. In Proceedings of the MM ’21—29th ACM
International Conference on Multimedia, Virtual, 20–24 October 2021. [CrossRef]
76.
Li, C.; Tang, T.; Wang, G.; Peng, J.; Wang, B.; Liang, X.; Chang, X. BossNAS: Exploring Hybrid CNN-transformers with Block-
wisely Self-supervised Neural Architecture Search. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer
Vision, Online, 11–17 October 2021. [CrossRef]
77.
Dollar, P.; Singh, M.; Girshick, R. Fast and accurate model scaling. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Nashville, TN, USA, 20–25 June 2021; pp. 924–932.
78.
Guo, S.; Alvarez, J.M.; Salzmann, M. ExpandNets: Linear over-parameterization to train compact convolutional networks. Adv.
Neural Inf. Process. Syst. (NeurIPS) 2020, 33, 1298–1310.
79.
Ding, X.; Zhang, X.; Zhou, Y.; Han, J.; Ding, G.; Sun, J. Scaling up your kernels to 31 × 31: Revisiting large kernel design in CNNs.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), New Orleans, LA, USA, 18–24
June 2022.
80.
Jocher, G.; Chaurasia, A.; Qiu, J. YOLO by Ultralytics. GitHub. 1 January 2023. Available online: https://github.com/ultralytics/
ultralytics (accessed on 12 January 2023).

--- Strana 25 ---
Machines 2023, 11, 677
25 of 25
81.
Jin, R.; Niu, Q. Automatic Fabric Defect Detection Based on an Improved YOLOv5. Math. Probl. Eng. 2021, 2021, 1–13. [CrossRef]
82.
NVIDIA Jetson TX2: High Performance AI at the Edge, NVIDIA. Available online: https://www.nvidia.com/en-gb/autonomous-
machines/embedded-systems/jetson-tx2/ (accessed on 30 January 2023).
83.
NVIDIA TensorRT. NVIDIA Developer. 18 July 2019. Available online: https://developer.nvidia.com/tensorrt (accessed on
5 January 2023).
84.
Dlamini, S.; Kao, C.-Y.; Su, S.-L.; Kuo, C.-F.J. Development of a real-time machine vision system for functional textile fabric defect
detection using a deep YOLOv4 model. Text. Res. J. 2021, 92, 675–690. [CrossRef]
85.
Lin, G.; Liu, K.; Xia, X.; Yan, R. An Efﬁcient and Intelligent Detection Method for Fabric Defects based on Improved YOLOv5.
Sensors 2022, 23, 97. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
86.
Liu, Z.; Tan, Y.; He, Q.; Xiao, Y. SwinNet: Swin Transformer Drives Edge-Aware RGB-D and RGB-T Salient Object Detection. IEEE
Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol. 2021, 32, 4486–4497. [CrossRef]
87.
Zhang, M.; Yin, L. Solar Cell Surface Defect Detection Based on Improved YOLO v5. IEEE Access 2022, 10, 80804–80815. [CrossRef]
88.
Binomairah, A.; Abdullah, A.; Khoo, B.E.; Mahdavipour, Z.; Teo, T.W.; Noor, N.S.M.; Abdullah, M.Z. Detection of microcracks
and dark spots in monocrystalline PERC cells using photoluminescene imaging and YOLO-based CNN with spatial pyramid
pooling. EPJ Photovolt. 2022, 13, 27. [CrossRef]
89.
Sun, T.; Xing, H.; Cao, S.; Zhang, Y.; Fan, S.; Liu, P. A novel detection method for hot spots of photovoltaic (PV) panels using
improved anchors and prediction heads of YOLOv5 network. Energy Rep. 2022, 8, 1219–1229. [CrossRef]
90.
Yang, D.; Cui, Y.; Yu, Z.; Yuan, H. Deep Learning Based Steel Pipe Weld Defect Detection. Appl. Artif. Intell. 2021, 35, 1237–1249.
[CrossRef]
91.
Ma, Z.; Li, Y.; Huang, M.; Huang, Q.; Cheng, J.; Tang, S. A lightweight detector based on attention mechanism for aluminum strip
surface defect detection. Comput. Ind. 2021, 136, 103585. [CrossRef]
92.
Shi, J.; Yang, J.; Zhang, Y. Research on Steel Surface Defect Detection Based on YOLOv5 with Attention Mechanism. Electronics
2022, 11, 3735. [CrossRef]
93.
CEP, F.A. 5 Insightful Statistics Related to Warehouse Safety. Available online: www.damotech.com (accessed on 11 January 2023).
94.
Armour, R. The Rack Group. Available online: https://therackgroup.com/product/rack-armour/ (accessed on 12 January 2023).
95.
Hussain, M.; Chen, T.; Hill, R. Moving toward Smart Manufacturing with an Autonomous Pallet Racking Inspection System
Based on MobileNetV2. J. Manuf. Mater. Process. 2022, 6, 75. [CrossRef]
96.
Hussain, M.; Al-Aqrabi, H.; Munawar, M.; Hill, R.; Alsboui, T. Domain Feature Mapping with YOLOv7 for Automated Edge-Based
Pallet Racking Inspections. Sensors 2022, 22, 6927. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
97.
Farahnakian, F.; Koivunen, L.; Makila, T.; Heikkonen, J. Towards Autonomous Industrial Warehouse Inspection. In Proceedings of
the 2021 26th International Conference on Automation and Computing (ICAC), Portsmouth, UK, 2–4 September 2021. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
