
--- Strana 1 ---

--- Strana 2 ---

--- Strana 3 ---
Accelerators for Convolutional Neural Networks

--- Strana 4 ---
IEEE Press
445 Hoes Lane
Piscataway, NJ 08854
IEEE Press Editorial Board
Sarah Spurgeon, Editor in Chief
Jón Atli Benediktsson
Anjan Bose
James Duncan
Amin Moeness
Desineni Subbaram Naidu
Behzad Razavi
Jim Lyke
Hai Li
Brian Johnson
Jeffrey Reed
Diomidis Spinellis
Adam Drobot
Tom Robertazzi
Ahmet Murat Tekalp

--- Strana 5 ---
Accelerators for Convolutional Neural
Networks
Arslan Munir
Kansas State University
USA
Joonho Kong
Kyungpook National University
South Korea
Mahmood Azhar Qureshi
Kansas State University
USA

--- Strana 6 ---
Copyright © 2024 by The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
All rights reserved.
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.
Published simultaneously in Canada.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any
form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise,
except as permitted under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without
either the prior written permission of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the
appropriate per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center, Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers,
MA 01923, (978) 750-8400, fax (978) 750-4470, or on the web at www.copyright.com. Requests to
the Publisher for permission should be addressed to the Permissions Department, John Wiley &
Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, (201) 748-6011, fax (201) 748-6008, or online at
http://www.wiley.com/go/permission.
Trademarks: Wiley and the Wiley logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of John Wiley &
Sons, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the United States and other countries and may not be used
without written permission. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
John Wiley & Sons, Inc. is not associated with any product or vendor mentioned in this book.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their best
efforts in preparing this book, they make no representations or warranties with respect to the
accuracy or completeness of the contents of this book and specifically disclaim any implied
warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be created or
extended by sales representatives or written sales materials. The advice and strategies contained
herein may not be suitable for your situation. You should consult with a professional where
appropriate. Further, readers should be aware that websites listed in this work may have
changed or disappeared between when this work was written and when it is read. Neither the
publisher nor authors shall be liable for any loss of profit or any other commercial damages,
including but not limited to special, incidental, consequential, or other damages.
For general information on our other products and services or for technical support, please
contact our Customer Care Department within the United States at (800) 762-2974, outside the
United States at (317) 572-3993 or fax (317) 572-4002.
Wiley also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats. Some content that appears in
print may not be available in electronic formats. For more information about Wiley products,
visit our web site at www.wiley.com.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data Applied for:
Hardback ISBN: 9781394171880
Cover Design: Wiley
Cover Image: © Gorodenkoff/Shutterstock; Michael Traitov/Shutterstock
Set in 9.5/12.5pt STIXTwoText by Straive, Chennai, India

--- Strana 7 ---
Arslan Munir dedicates this book to his wife Neda and his parents for their
continuous support.
Joonho Kong dedicates this book to his wife Jiyeon, children Eunseo and Eunyu,
and his parents for their continuous support.
Mahmood Azhar Qureshi dedicates this book to his parents, siblings, and his wife
Kiran, all of whom provided continuous support throughout his academic and
professional career.

--- Strana 8 ---

--- Strana 9 ---
vii
Contents
About the Authors
xiii
Preface
xv
Part I
Overview
1
1
Introduction
3
1.1
History and Applications
5
1.2
Pitfalls of High-Accuracy DNNs/CNNs
6
1.2.1
Compute and Energy Bottleneck
6
1.2.2
Sparsity Considerations
9
1.3
Chapter Summary
11
2
Overview of Convolutional Neural Networks
13
2.1
Deep Neural Network Architecture
13
2.2
Convolutional Neural Network Architecture
15
2.2.1
Data Preparation
17
2.2.2
Building Blocks of CNNs
17
2.2.2.1
Convolutional Layers
17
2.2.2.2
Pooling Layers
19
2.2.2.3
Fully Connected Layers
20
2.2.3
Parameters of CNNs
21
2.2.4
Hyperparameters of CNNs
21
2.2.4.1
Hyperparameters Related to Network Structure
22
2.2.4.2
Hyperparameters Related to Training
23
2.2.4.3
Hyperparameter Tuning
25
2.3
Popular CNN Models
26
2.3.1
AlexNet
26
2.3.2
VGGNet
26

--- Strana 10 ---
viii
Contents
2.3.3
GoogleNet
27
2.3.4
SqueezeNet
27
2.3.5
Binary Neural Networks
29
2.3.6
EfficientNet
29
2.4
Popular CNN Datasets
30
2.4.1
MNIST Dataset
30
2.4.2
CIFAR
30
2.4.3
ImageNet
31
2.5
CNN Processing Hardware
31
2.5.1
Temporal Architectures
32
2.5.2
Spatial Architectures
34
2.5.3
Near-Memory Processing
36
2.6
Chapter Summary
37
Part II
Compressive Coding for CNNs
39
3
Contemporary Advances in Compressive Coding
for CNNs
41
3.1
Background of Compressive Coding
41
3.2
Compressive Coding for CNNs
43
3.3
Lossy Compression for CNNs
43
3.4
Lossless Compression for CNNs
44
3.5
Recent Advancements in Compressive Coding for CNNs
48
3.6
Chapter Summary
50
4
Lossless Input Feature Map Compression
51
4.1
Two-Step Input Feature Map Compression Technique
52
4.2
Evaluation
55
4.3
Chapter Summary
57
5
Arithmetic Coding and Decoding for 5-Bit CNN Weights
59
5.1
Architecture and Design Overview
60
5.2
Algorithm Overview
63
5.2.1
Weight Encoding Algorithm
64
5.3
Weight Decoding Algorithm
67
5.4
Encoding and Decoding Examples
69
5.4.1
Decoding Hardware
72
5.5
Evaluation Methodology
74
5.6
Evaluation Results
75
5.6.1
Compression Ratio and Memory Energy Consumption
75

--- Strana 11 ---
Contents
ix
5.6.2
Latency Overhead
78
5.6.3
Latency vs. Resource Usage Trade-Off
81
5.6.4
System-Level Energy Estimation
83
5.7
Chapter Summary
84
Part III
Dense CNN Accelerators
85
6
Contemporary Dense CNN Accelerators
87
6.1
Background on Dense CNN Accelerators
87
6.2
Representation of the CNN Weights and Feature Maps in
Dense Format
87
6.3
Popular Architectures for Dense CNN Accelerators
89
6.4
Recent Advancements in Dense CNN Accelerators
92
6.5
Chapter Summary
93
7
iMAC: Image-to-Column and General Matrix
Multiplication-Based Dense CNN Accelerator
95
7.1
Background and Motivation
95
7.2
Architecture
97
7.3
Implementation
99
7.4
Chapter Summary
100
8
NeuroMAX: A Dense CNN Accelerator
101
8.1
Related Work
102
8.2
Log Mapping
103
8.3
Hardware Architecture
105
8.3.1
Top-Level
105
8.3.2
PE Matrix
106
8.4
Data Flow and Processing
108
8.4.1
3 × 3 Convolution
109
8.4.2
1 × 1 Convolution
111
8.4.3
Higher-Order Convolutions
116
8.5
Implementation and Results
118
8.6
Chapter Summary
124
Part IV
Sparse CNN Accelerators
125
9
Contemporary Sparse CNN Accelerators
127
9.1
Background of Sparsity in CNN Models
127

--- Strana 12 ---
x
Contents
9.2
Background of Sparse CNN Accelerators
128
9.3
Recent Advancements in Sparse CNN Accelerators
131
9.4
Chapter Summary
133
10
CNN Accelerator for In Situ Decompression and Convolution
of Sparse Input Feature Maps
135
10.1
Overview
135
10.2
Hardware Design Overview
135
10.3
Design Optimization Techniques Utilized in the Hardware
Accelerator
140
10.4
FPGA Implementation
141
10.5
Evaluation Results
143
10.5.1
Performance and Energy
144
10.5.2
Comparison with State-of-the-Art Hardware Accelerator
Implementations
146
10.6
Chapter Summary
149
11
Sparse-PE: A Sparse CNN Accelerator
151
11.1
Related Work
155
11.2
Sparse-PE
156
11.2.1
Sparse Binary Mask
158
11.2.2
Selection
159
11.2.3
Computation
164
11.2.4
Accumulation
170
11.2.5
Output Encoding
172
11.3
Implementation and Results
174
11.3.1
Cycle-Accurate Simulator
175
11.3.1.1
Performance with Varying Sparsity
177
11.3.1.2
Comparison Against Past Approaches
179
11.3.2
RTL Implementation
181
11.4
Chapter Summary
184
12
Phantom: A High-Performance Computational Core for
Sparse CNNs
185
12.1
Related Work
189
12.2
Phantom
190
12.2.1
Sparse Mask Representation
191
12.2.2
Core Architecture
192
12.2.3
Lookahead Masking
192
12.2.4
Top-Down Selector
193
12.2.4.1
In-Order Selection
194

--- Strana 13 ---
Contents
xi
12.2.4.2
Out-of-Order Selection
195
12.2.5
Thread Mapper
196
12.2.6
Compute Engine
197
12.2.7
Output Buffer
199
12.2.8
Output Encoding
201
12.3
Phantom-2D
201
12.3.1
R × C Compute Matrix
202
12.3.2
Load Balancing
203
12.3.3
Regular/Depthwise Convolution
204
12.3.3.1
Intercore Balancing
204
12.3.4
Pointwise Convolution
204
12.3.5
FC Layers
207
12.3.6
Intracore Balancing
207
12.4
Experiments and Results
209
12.4.1
Evaluation Methodology
209
12.4.1.1
Cycle-Accurate Simulator
209
12.4.1.2
Simulated Models
211
12.4.2
Results
211
12.4.2.1
TDS Variants Comparison
211
12.4.2.2
Impact of Load Balancing
212
12.4.2.3
Sensitivity to Sparsity and Lf
213
12.4.2.4
Comparison Against Past Approaches
215
12.4.2.5
RTL Synthesis Results
217
12.5
Chapter Summary
218
Part V
HW/SW Co-Design and Co-Scheduling for CNN
Acceleration
221
13
State-of-the-Art in HW/SW Co-Design and Co-Scheduling
for CNN Acceleration
223
13.1
HW/SW Co-Design
223
13.1.1
Case Study: Cognitive IoT
225
13.1.2
Recent Advancements in HW/SW Co-Design
227
13.2
HW/SW Co-Scheduling
228
13.2.1
Recent Advancements in HW/SW Co-Scheduling
229
13.3
Chapter Summary
230
14
Hardware/Software Co-Design for CNN Acceleration
231
14.1
Background of iMAC Accelerator
231
14.2
Software Partition for iMAC Accelerator
232

--- Strana 14 ---
xii
Contents
14.2.1
Channel Partition and Input/Weight Allocation to Hardware
Accelerator
232
14.2.2
Exploiting Parallelism Within Convolution Layer Operations
234
14.3
Experimental Evaluations
235
14.4
Chapter Summary
237
15
CPU-Accelerator Co-Scheduling for CNN Acceleration
239
15.1
Background and Preliminaries
240
15.1.1
Convolutional Neural Networks
240
15.1.2
Baseline System Architecture
241
15.2
CNN Acceleration with CPU-Accelerator Co-Scheduling
242
15.2.1
Overview
242
15.2.2
Linear Regression-Based Latency Model
243
15.2.2.1
Accelerator Latency Model
243
15.2.2.2
CPU Latency Model
246
15.2.3
Channel Distribution
246
15.2.4
Prototype Implementation
247
15.3
Experimental Results
251
15.3.1
Latency Model Accuracy
251
15.3.2
Performance
253
15.3.3
Energy
254
15.3.4
Case Study: Tiny Darknet CNN Inferences
255
15.4
Chapter Summary
257
16
Conclusions
259
References
265
Index
285

--- Strana 15 ---
xiii
About the Authors
Arslan Munir is currently an Associate Professor
in the Department of Computer Science at Kansas
State University. He was a postdoctoral research
associate in the Electrical and Computer Engineer-
ing (ECE) Department at Rice University, Hous-
ton, Texas, USA, from May 2012 to June 2014. He
received his MASc in ECE from the University of
British Columbia (UBC), Vancouver, Canada, in
2007 and his PhD in ECE from the University of
Florida (UF), Gainesville, Florida, USA, in 2012.
From 2007 to 2008, he worked as a software devel-
opment engineer at Mentor Graphics Corporation in
the Embedded Systems Division.
Munir’s current research interests include embedded and cyber physical sys-
tems, artificial intelligence, deep learning hardware, computer vision, secure and
trustworthy systems, parallel computing, and reconfigurable computing. Munir
received many academic awards including the doctoral fellowship from Natural
Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada. He earned gold
medals for best performance in electrical engineering, and gold medals, and aca-
demic roll of honor for securing rank one in pre-engineering provincial examina-
tions (out of approximately 300,000 candidates). He is a senior member of IEEE.

--- Strana 16 ---
xiv
About the Authors
Joonho Kong is currently an Associate Profes-
sor with the School of Electronics Engineering,
Kyungpook National University. He received the BS
degree in computer science and the MS and PhD
degrees in computer science and engineering from
Korea University, in 2007, 2009, and 2011, respec-
tively. He worked as postdoctoral research associate
with the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering, Rice University, from 2012 to 2014.
Before joining Kyungpook National University, he
also worked as a Senior Engineer at Samsung Elec-
tronics, from 2014 to 2015. His research interests
include computer architecture, heterogeneous computing, embedded systems,
hardware/software co-design, AI/ML accelerators, and hardware security. He is
a member of IEEE.
Mahmood Azhar Qureshi is currently a Senior
Design Engineer at Intel Corporation. He received
his PhD in Computer Science from Kansas State
University, Manhattan, Kansas, in 2021 where he
also worked as a research assistant from 2018 to
2021. He received his MS in electrical engineering
from the University of Engineering and Technology
(UET), Taxila, Pakistan, in 2018 and BE in electrical
engineering from National University of Sciences
and Technology (NUST), Pakistan, in 2013. From
2014 to 2018, he worked as a Senior RTL Design
Engineer at Center for Advanced Research in
Engineering (CARE) Pvt. Ltd, Islamabad, Pakistan. During the summer of 2020,
he interned at MathWorks, USA, where he was actively involved in adding new
features in Matlab which is a tool used globally in industry as well as academia.
During fall 2020, he interned at Tesla, working on the failure analysis of the
infotainment hardware for the Tesla Model 3 and Model Y global feet.

--- Strana 17 ---
xv
Preface
Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have gained tremendous significance
in the domain of artificial intelligence (AI) because of their use in a variety of
applications related to visual imagery analysis. There has been a drastic increase
in the accuracy of CNNs in recent years, which has helped CNNs make its way
in real-world applications. This increase in accuracy, however, translates into a
sizable model and high computational requirements, which make the deployment
of these CNNs in resource-limited computing platforms a challenging endeavor.
Thus, embedding CNN inference into various real-world applications requires the
design of high-performance, area, and energy-efficient accelerator architectures.
This book targets the design of accelerators for CNNs.
This book is organized into five parts: overview, compressive coding for CNNs,
dense CNN accelerators, sparse CNN accelerators, and HW/SW co-design and
co-scheduling for CNN acceleration. The first part of the book provides an
overview of CNNs along with the composition of different contemporary CNN
models. The book then discusses some of the architectural and algorithmic
techniques for efficient processing of CNN models. The second part of the book
discusses compressive coding for CNNs to compress CNN weights and feature
maps. This part of the book then discusses Huffman coding for lossless com-
pression of CNN weights and feature maps. The book then elucidates a two-step
lossless input feature maps compression method followed by discussion of an
arithmetic coding and decoding-based lossless weights compression method. The
third part of the book focuses on the design of dense CNN accelerators. The book
provides a discussion on contemporary dense CNN accelerators. The book then
presents an iMAC dense CNN accelerator, which combines image-to-column and
general matrix multiplication hardware acceleration followed by the discussion
of another dense CNN accelerator that utilizes log-based processing elements and
2D data flow to maximize data reuse and hardware utilization. The fourth part
of the book targets sparse CNN accelerator. The book discusses contemporary
sparse CNNs that consider sparsity in weights and activation maps (i.e., many

--- Strana 18 ---
xvi
Preface
weights and activations in CNNs are zero and result in ineffectual computations)
to deliver high effective throughput. The book then presents a sparse CNN
accelerator that performs in situ decompression and convolution of sparse input
feature maps. Afterwards, the book discusses a sparse CNN accelerator, which
has the capability to actively skip a huge number of ineffective computations (i.e.,
computations involving zero weights and/or activations), while only favoring
effective computations (nonzero weights and nonzero activations) to drastically
improve the hardware utilization. The book then presents another sparse CNN
accelerator that uses sparse binary mask representation to actively lookahead
into sparse computations, and dynamically schedule its computational threads
to maximize the thread utilization and throughput. The fifth part of the book
targets hardware/software co-design and co-scheduling for CNN acceleration.
The book discusses hardware/software co-design and co-scheduling that can
lead to better optimization and utilization of the available hardware resources
for CNN acceleration. The book summarizes recent works on hardware/software
co-design and scheduling. The book then presents a technique that utilizes
software, algorithm, and hardware co-design to reduce the response time of
CNN inferences. Afterwards, the book discusses a CPU-accelerator co-scheduling
technique, which co-utilizes the CPU and CNN accelerators to expedite the CNN
inference. The book also provides directions for future research and development
for CNN accelerators.
This is the first book on the subject of accelerators for CNNs that introduces
readers to advances and state-of-the-art research in design of CNN accelerators.
This book can serve as a good reference for students, researchers, and practi-
tioners working in the area of hardware design, computer architecture, and AI
acceleration.
January 24, 2023
Arslan Munir
Manhattan, KS, USA

--- Strana 19 ---
1
Part I
Overview

--- Strana 20 ---

--- Strana 21 ---
3
1
Introduction
Deep neural networks (DNNs) have enabled the deployment of artificial intel-
ligence (AI) in many modern applications including autonomous driving [1],
image recognition [2], and speech processing [3]. In many applications, DNNs
have achieved close to human-level accuracy and, in some, they have exceeded
human accuracy [4]. This high accuracy comes from a DNN’s unique ability to
automatically extract high-level features from a huge quantity of training data
using statistical learning and improvement over time. This learning over time
provides a DNN with an effective representation of the input space. This is quite
different from the earlier approaches where specific features were hand-crafted
by domain experts and were subsequently used for feature extraction.
Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) are a type of DNNs, which are most
commonly used for computer vision tasks. Among different types of DNNs,
such as multilayer perceptrons (MLP), recurrent neural networks (RNNs), long
short-term memory (LSTM) networks, radial basis function networks (RBFNs),
generative adversarial networks (GANs), restricted Boltzmann machines (RBMs),
deep belief networks (DBNs), and autoencoders, CNNs are the mostly commonly
used. Invention of CNNs has revolutionized the field of computer vision and
has enabled many applications of computer vision to go mainstream. CNNs
have applications in image and video recognition, recommender systems, image
classification, image segmentation, medical image analysis, object detection,
activity recognition, natural language processing, brain–computer interfaces, and
financial time-series prediction.
DNN/CNN processing is usually carried out in two stages, training and infer-
ence, with both of them having their own computational needs. Training is the
process where a DNN model is trained using a large application-specific data
set. The training time is dependent on the model size and the target accuracy
requirements. For high accuracy applications like autonomous driving, training a
DNN can take weeks and is usually performed on a cloud. Inference, on the other
Accelerators for Convolutional Neural Networks, First Edition.
Arslan Munir, Joonho Kong, and Mahmood Azhar Qureshi.
© 2024 The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Published 2024 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

--- Strana 22 ---
4
1 Introduction
Training dataset
Lion
Lion
Dog
Cloud-hosted training
Edge device inference
Device sensor capturing
real-world data
Edge device processing
system
Trained DNN model
deployed on the
edge device
Figure 1.1
DNN/CNN processing methodology. Source: (b) Daughter#3 -
Cecil/Wikimedia Commons/CC BY-SA 2.0.
hand, can be performed either on the cloud or the edge device (mobile device,
Internet of things (IoT), autonomous vehicle, etc.). Nowadays, in many applica-
tions, it is advantageous to perform the inference process on the edge devices, as
shown in Figure 1.1. For example, in cellphones, it is desirable to perform image
and video processing on the device itself rather than sending the data over to
the cloud for processing. This methodology reduces the communication cost and
the latency involved with the data transmission and reception. It also eliminates
the risk of losing important device features should there be a network disruption
or loss of connectivity. Another motivation for doing inference on the device is the
ever-increasing security risk involved with sending personalized data, including
images and videos, over to the cloud servers for processing. Autonomous driving
systems which require visual data need to deploy solutions to perform inference
locally to avoid latency and security issues, both of which can result in a catas-
trophe, should an undesirable event occurs. Performing DNN/CNN inference
on the edge presents its own set of challenges. This stems from the fact that the
embedded platforms running on the edge devices have stringent cost limitations
which limit their compute capabilities. Running compute and memory-intensive
DNN/CNN inference in these devices in an efficient manner becomes a matter of
prime importance.

--- Strana 23 ---
1.1 History and Applications
5
1.1
History and Applications
Neural nets have been around since the 1940s; however, the first practically appli-
cable neural network, referred to as the LeNet [5], was proposed in 1989. This neu-
ral network was designed to solve the problem of digit recognition in hand-written
numeric digits. It paved the way for the development of neural networks respon-
sible for various applications related to digit recognition, such as an automated
teller machine (ATM), optical character recognition (OCR), automatic number
plate recognition, and traffic signs recognition. The slow growth and a little to no
adoption of neural networks in the early days is mainly due to the massive com-
putational requirements involved with their processing which limited their study
to theoretical concepts.
Over the past decade, there has been an exponential growth in the research on
DNNs with many new high accuracy neural networks being deployed for various
applications. This has only been possible because of two factors. The first factor is
the advancements in the processing power of semiconductor devices and techno-
logical breakthroughs in computer architecture. Nowadays, computers have sig-
nificantly higher computing capability. This enables the processing of a neural
network within a reasonable time frame, something that was not achievable in
the early days. The second factor is the availability of a large amount of training
datasets. As neural networks learn over time, providing huge amounts of training
data enables better accuracy. For example, Meta (parent company of Facebook)
receives close to a billion user images per day, whereas YouTube has 300 hours of
video uploaded every minute [6]. This enables the service providers to train their
neural networks for targeted advertising campaigns bringing in billions of dollars
of advertising revenue. Apart from their use in social media platforms, DNNs are
impacting many other domains and are making a huge impact. Some of these areas
include:
●Speech Processing: Speech processing algorithms have improved significantly
in the past few years. Nowadays, many applications have been developed that
use DNNs to perform real-time speech recognition with unprecedented levels
of accuracy [3, 7–9]. Many technology companies are also using DNNs to per-
form language translation used in a wide variety of applications. Google, for
example, uses Google’s neural machine translation system (GNMT) [10] which
uses LSTM-based seq2seq model for their language translation applications.
●Autonomous Driving: Autonomous driving has been one of the biggest tech-
nological breakthroughs in the auto industry since the invention of the internal
combustion engine. It is not a coincidence that the self-driving boom came at the
same time when high accuracy CNNs became increasingly popular. Companies

--- Strana 24 ---
6
1 Introduction
like Tesla [11] and Waymo [12] are using various types of self-driving technol-
ogy including visual feeds and Lidar for their self-driving solutions. One thing
which is common in all these solutions is the use of CNNs for visual perception
of the road conditions which is the main back-end technology used in advanced
driver assistance systems (ADAS).
●Medical AI: Another crucial area where DNNs/CNNs have become increas-
ingly useful is medicine. Nowadays, doctors can use AI-assisted medical
imagery to perform various surgeries. AI systems use DNNs in genomics to
gather insights about genetic disorders like autism [13, 14]. DNNs/CNNs are
also useful in the detection of various types of cancers like skin and brain cancer
[15, 16].
●Security: The advent of AI has challenged many traditional security approaches
that were previously deemed sufficient. The rollout of 5G technology has caused
a massive surge of IoT-based deployments which traditional security approaches
are not able to keep up with. Physical unclonability approaches [17–21] were
introduced to protect this massive deployment of IoTs against security attacks
with minimum cost overheads. These approaches, however, were also unsuc-
cessful in preventing AI-assisted attacks using DNNs [22, 23]. Researchers have
now been forced to upgrade the security threat models to incorporate AI-based
attacks [24, 25]. Because of a massive increase in AI-assisted cyber-attacks on
cloud and datacenters, companies have realized that the best way of defeating
offensive AI attacks is by incorporating AI-based counterattacks [26, 27].
Overall, the use of DNNs, in particular CNNs, in various applications has seen
exponential growth over the past decade, and this trend has been on the rise for the
past many years. The massive increase in CNN deployments on the edge devices
requires the development of efficient processing architectures to keep up with the
computational requirements for successful CNN inference.
1.2
Pitfalls of High-Accuracy DNNs/CNNs
This section discusses some of the pitfalls of high-accuracy DNN/CNN mod-
els focusing on compute and energy bottlenecks, and the effect of sparsity of
high-accuracy models on throughput and hardware utilization.
1.2.1
Compute and Energy Bottleneck
CNNs are composed of multiple convolution layers (CONV) which help in extract-
ing low-, mid-, and high-level input features for better accuracy. Although CNNs
are primarily used in applications related to image and video processing, they are

--- Strana 25 ---
1.2 Pitfalls of High-Accuracy DNNs/CNNs
7
Table 1.1
Popular CNN models.
CNN model
Layers
Top-1
accuracy (%)
Top-5
accuracy (%)
Parameters
MACs
AlexNet [30]
8
63.3
84.6
62M
666M
VGG-16 [31]
16
74.3
91.9
138M
15.3B
GoogleNet [35]
22
68.9
88
6.8M
1.5B
MobileNet [35]
28
70.9
89.9
4.2M
569M
ResNet-50 [32]
50
75.3
92.2
25.5M
3.9B
also used in speech processing [3, 7], gameplay [28], and robotics [29] applica-
tions. We will further discuss the basics of CNNs in Chapter 2. In this section,
we explore some of the bottlenecks when it comes to implementing high-accuracy
CNN inference engines in embedded mobile devices.
The development of high accuracy CNN models [30–34] in recent years has
strengthened the notion of employing DNNs in various AI applications. The clas-
sification accuracy of CNNs for the ImageNet challenge [2] has improved consid-
erably from 63.3% in 2012 (AlexNet [30]) to a staggering 87.3% (EfficientNetV2
[4] in 2021). This high jump in accuracy comes with high compute and energy
costs for CNN inference. Table 1.1 shows some of the most commonly used CNN
models. The models are trained using the ImageNet dataset [2], and the top-1 and
top-5 classification accuracy is also given. We note that top-1 accuracy is the con-
ventional accuracy, which means that the model answer (i.e., the one predicted
by the model with the highest probability) must be exactly the expected answer.
Top-5 accuracy means that any of the five highest probability answers predicted
by the model must match the expected answer. It can be seen from Table 1.1 that
the addition of more layers results in better accuracy. This addition, however, also
corresponds to a greater number of model parameters, requiring more memory
and storage. It also results in higher multiply-accumulate (MAC) operations, caus-
ing an increase in computational complexity and resource requirements, which in
turn, affects the performance of the edge devices.
Even though some efforts have been made to reduce the size of the high accuracy
models, they still require massive amounts of computations over a series of net-
work layers to perform a particular inference task (classification, segmentation,
etc.). These tremendous number of computations (typically in tens of millions)
present a huge challenge for the neural network accelerators (NNAs) running
the CNN inference. NNAs are specialized hardware blocks inside a computer sys-
tem (e.g., mobile devices and cloud servers) that speed up the computations of
the CNN inference process to maintain the real-time requirements of the system

--- Strana 26 ---
8
1 Introduction
32b DRAM Read
32b SRAM Read
32b FP Multiply
32b INT Multiply
32b FP Add
32b INT Add
16b INT Add
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
16b FP Add
Operation
Order of magnitude (10×)
8b INT Multiply
16b FP Multiply
Figure 1.2
Energy cost (relative to 8 bit Add operation) shown on a log 10 scale for a
45 nm process technology. Source: Adapted from [6, 36].
and improve system throughput. Apart from the massive computational require-
ments, the addition of more layers for higher accuracy drastically increases the
CNN model size. This prevents the CNN model from being stored in the limited
on-chip static random access memory (SRAM) of the edge device, and, therefore,
requires off-chip dynamic random access memory (DRAM) which presents a high
DRAM access energy cost.
To put this in perspective, the energy cost per fetch for 32 bit coefficients in an
off-chip low-power double data rate 2 (LPDDR2) DRAM is about 640 pJ, which
is about 6400× the energy cost of a 32 bit integer ADD operation [36]. The bigger
the model is, the more memory referencing is performed to access the model data
which in turn expends more energy. Figure 1.2 shows the energy cost of various
compute and memory operations relative to an 8 bit integer add (8 bit INT Add)
operation. It can be seen that the DRAM Read operation dominates the energy
graph with the 32 bit DRAM Read consuming greater than 4 orders of magnitude
higher energy than the 8 bit INT Add. As a consequence, the energy cost from just
the DRAM accesses would be well beyond the limitations of an embedded mobile
device with limited battery life. Therefore, in addition to accelerating the compute
operations, the NNA also needs to minimize the off-chip memory transactions for
decreasing the overall energy consumption.
Many algorithm-level techniques have been developed to minimize the compu-
tational requirements of a CNN without incurring a loss in accuracy. Since the
main compute bottleneck in CNN inference is the CONV operation, Mobilenets
[33, 34] were developed to reduce the total number of CONV operations. These
CNNs drastically reduce the total number of parameters and MAC operations by

--- Strana 27 ---
1.2 Pitfalls of High-Accuracy DNNs/CNNs
9
breaking down the standard 2D convolution into depthwise separable and point-
wise convolutions. The depthwise separable and pointwise convolutions result in
8× to 9× reduction in total computations compared to regular CONV operations,
with a slight decrease in accuracy. They also eliminate varying filter sizes, and
instead, use 3 × 3 and 1 × 1 filters for performing convolution operations. This
makes them ideal for embedded mobile devices because of their relatively low
memory footprint and lower total MAC operations.
A widely used approach for decreasing the memory bottleneck is the reduc-
tion in the precision of both weights and activations using various quantization
strategies [37–39]. This again does not result in a significant loss in accuracy and
reduces the model size by a considerable amount. Hardware implementations like
Envision [40], UNPU [41], and Stripes [42] show how reduced bit precision, and
quantization, translates into better savings in energy.
1.2.2
Sparsity Considerations
Nonlinear activation functions [6], in addition to deep layers, is one of the key char-
acteristics that improve the accuracy of a CNN model. Typically, nonlinearity is
added by incorporating activation functions, the most common being the rectified
linear unit (ReLU) [6]. The ReLU converts all negative values in a feature map to
zeros. Since the output of one layer is the input to the next layer, many of the com-
putations, within a layer, involve multiplication with zeros. These feature maps
containing zeros are referred to as one-sided sparse feature maps. The multiplica-
tions resulting from this one-sided sparsity waste compute cycles and decrease the
effective throughput and hardware utilization, thus, reducing the performance of
the accelerator. It also results in high energy costs as the transfer of zeros to/from
off-chip memory is wasted memory access. In order to reduce the computational
and memory access volume, previous works [43–45] have exploited this one-sided
sparsity and displayed some performance improvements. To exacerbate the issue
of wasted compute cycles and memory accesses, two-sided sparsity is introduced
in CNNs often by pruning techniques when, in addition to the feature maps, the
weight data also consists of zeros. Designing a CNN accelerator that can overcome
the wasted compute cycles and memory accesses issues of one-sided and two-sided
sparsities is quite challenging.
In recent years, many pruning techniques have been developed for the com-
pression of DNN models [46–49]. Han et al. [46] iteratively pruned the connec-
tions based on parameter threshold and performed retraining to retain accuracy.
This type of pruning is referred to as unstructured pruning. It arbitrarily removes
weight connections in a DNN/CNN but does little to improve acceleration on tem-
poral architectures like central processing units (CPUs) and graphics processing
units (GPUs) which rely on accelerating matrix multiplications. Another form

--- Strana 28 ---
10
1 Introduction
of pruning, referred to as structured pruning [50, 51], reduces the size of weight
matrices and maintains a full matrix. This makes it possible to simplify the NNA
design since the sparsity patterns are predictable, therefore, enabling better hard-
ware support for operation scheduling.
Both unstructured and structured pruning strategies, as described above, result
in two-sided sparsity, (i.e., sparsity in both weights and activations) which lead
to approximately 9× model reduction for AlexNet and 13× reduction for VGG-16.
The purning strategies also result in 4–9× effective compute reduction (depending
on the model). These gains seem very promising; however, designing an acceler-
ator architecture to leverage them is quite challenging because of the following
reasons:
●Data Access Inconsistency: Computation gating is one of the most common
ways by which sparsity is generally exploited. Whenever a zero in the activation
or the weight data is read, no operation is performed. This results in energy
savings but has no impact on the throughput because of the wastage of compute
cycle. Complex read logic needs to be implemented to discard the zeros, and
instead, perform effective computations on nonzero data. Some previous
works [52, 53] use sparse compression formats like compressed sparse column
(CSC) or compressed sparse row (CSR) to represent sparse data. These formats
have variable lengths and make looking ahead difficult if both the weight
and the activation sparsity are being considered. Other than that, developing
the complex control and read logic to process these formats can be quite
challenging.
●Low Utilization of the Processing Element (PE) Array: Convolution
operations for CNN inference are usually performed using an array of
two-dimensional PEs in a CNN accelerator. Different dataflows (input sta-
tionary, output stationary, weight stationary, etc.) have been proposed that
efficiently map the weight data and the activation data onto the PE array to
maximize the throughput [6, 54]. Sparsity introduces inconsistency in the
scheduling of data thereby reducing hardware utilization. The subset of PEs
provided with more sparse data have idle times while those provided with less
sparse (or denser) data are fully active. This bounds the throughput of the
accelerator to the most active PEs, and therefore, leads to the underutilization
of the PE array.
Considering the abovementioned issues, many accelerators have been proposed
in the past that attempt to strike a balance between hardware resource complex-
ity and performance improvements. The CNN accelerators that exploit sparsity in
CNN models are covered in detail in Part IV of this book.

--- Strana 29 ---
1.3 Chapter Summary
11
1.3
Chapter Summary
This chapter discussed the history and applications of DNNs, focusing on CNNs.
The chapter also highlighted the compute and energy bottlenecks as well as the
effect of sparsity in high-accuracy CNN models on the throughput and hardware
utilization of edge devices.

--- Strana 30 ---

--- Strana 31 ---
13
2
Overview of Convolutional Neural Networks
This chapter gives an overview of the composition of different deep neural
network (DNN) models, specifically the convolutional neural networks (CNNs),
and explore the different layers that these neural networks are comprised of.
Additionally, this chapter describes some of the most popular high accuracy
CNN models and the datasets upon which these CNNs operate. Finally, the
chapter reviews some of the architectural and algorithmic techniques for efficient
processing of high accuracy CNN models on edge devices.
2.1
Deep Neural Network Architecture
DNNs are a manifestation of the notion of deep learning, which comes under
the umbrella of artificial intelligence (AI). The main inspiration behind DNNs is
the way different neurons work in a brain to process and communicate informa-
tion. The raw sensory input is transformed into a high-level abstraction in order to
extract meaningful information and make decisions. This transformation, referred
to as inference (or forward propagation) in DNNs, results from many stages of
nonlinear processing, with each stage called a layer.
Figure 2.1 shows a simple DNN with four hidden layers and one input and out-
put layer. The DNN layers receive a weighted sum of input values (wixi, where wi
denotes weights and xi denotes the inputs) and compute outputs using a nonlin-
ear function, referred to as the activation function. Many activation functions have
been proposed in the literature, some of which are shown in Figure 2.2. Rectified
linear unit (ReLU) is one of the most commonly used activation functions utilized
in many modern state-of-the-art DNNs. The weights in each layer are determined
through the process of training. Once the training is complete after meeting a
desired accuracy, the trained model is deployed on computer servers or often on
edge devices where inference is performed.
Accelerators for Convolutional Neural Networks, First Edition.
Arslan Munir, Joonho Kong, and Mahmood Azhar Qureshi.
© 2024 The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Published 2024 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

--- Strana 32 ---
14
2 Overview of Convolutional Neural Networks
Input layer
Hidden layers
Weight
connections
(wi xi)
Σ
yi = f
wi xi + B
i
Neurons
(Activation function f)
Output layer
Figure 2.1
A neural network example with one input layer, four hidden layers, and one
output layer.
Traditional activation
functions
Modern activation
functions
Sigmoid
ReLU
Tanh
Leaky ReLU
y = max(0, x)
y =
1
1 + e–x
1
–1
–1
1
0
0
1
–1
–1
1
0
0
y = max(ax, x)
a = const.
y =
ex – e–x
ex + e–x
1
–1
–1
1
0
0
1
–1
–1
1
0
0
Figure 2.2
Various nonlinear
activation functions. Source: Figure
adapted from DNN tutorial survey
[6].

--- Strana 33 ---
2.2 Convolutional Neural Network Architecture
15
DNNs come in various shapes and sizes depending on the target application.
Multi-layer perceptrons (MLPs) are DNNs that consist of many fully connected
(FC) layers, with each layer followed by a nonlinear activation function. In
MLPs, each neuron in layeri is connected to every neuron in layeri+1. In this
way, the FC layer computations can be generalized as matrix–vector multipli-
cations followed by the activation function. The FC layer computation can be
represented as:
y = f(Wi + b)
(2.1)
where i is the input vector, W is the weight matrix, b is the bias, f is the activation
function, and y represents the output activation vector. It can be seen that the DNN
in Figure 2.1 is an example of an MLP network.
2.2
Convolutional Neural Network Architecture
CNNs are a specialized type of DNNs that utilize a mathematical operation called
convolution instead of general matrix multiplication in at least one of their layers.
A CNN is composed of an input layer, hidden layers, and an output layer. In any
feed-forward neural network, any middle layers between the input layer and the
output layer are known as hidden layers. The hidden layers take a set of weighted
inputs and produce output through an activation function. In a CNN, the hidden
layers include layers that perform convolution operations. In a convolutional layer
of the CNN, each neuron receives input from only a confined area (e.g., a square
of 3 × 3 or 5 × 5 dimension) of the previous layer called the neuron’s receptive field.
In an FC layer of the CNN (further elaborated in the following), the receptive field
is the entire previous layer. Each neuron in a neural network applies a specific
function to the input values received from the receptive field in the previous layer
to compute an output value. The input value received by the function in neuron
depends on a vector of weights and biases, which are learned iteratively as the
neural network is being trained on the input data. In CNNs, the vectors of weights
and biases are called filters that capture specific features of the input. A distinctive
feature of CNNs as opposed to other DNNs or MLPs is that a filter in CNNs can be
shared by many neurons (i.e., weights or filter sharing). As illustrated in Figure 2.3,
the same weights are shared between the neurons across receptive fields in the case
of CNNs. This sharing of filter in CNNs reduces the memory footprint because
a single vector of weights and a single bias can be used across all the receptive
fields that share that filter as opposed to having a separate weight vector and bias
for each receptive field. The other distinctive feature of the CNN as compared to
MLPs is sparse connection between the input and output neurons. It means only
a small fraction of the input neurons are connected to a certain output neuron.

--- Strana 34 ---
16
2 Overview of Convolutional Neural Networks
(a)
(b)
Figure 2.3
The demonstration of (a) MLPs and (b) CNNs.
As shown in Figure 2.3, the neurons are sparsely connected in CNNs, while all the
input neurons are connected to all the output neurons (i.e., are densely connected)
in MLPs.
An overall architecture of a CNN is depicted in Figure 2.4. The input for CNNs is
typically composed of three channels (red, green, and blue [RGB]), each of which
comprises two-dimensional pixel arrays. The convolution layer performs the con-
volution operations with filters to extract features from the inputs. The pooling
layer reduces the size of the feature maps by downsampling the input feature
maps. The flatten layer flattens the multidimensional tensors to a one-dimensional
vector. The fully connected layer performs the classification, which is represented
by a probability distribution across the classes.
0.5
0.3
0.2
Convolution
layer
Pooling
layer
Fully
connected
layer
Outputs
Input
image
Flatten
layer
Figure 2.4
Overview of a typical CNN architecture.

--- Strana 35 ---
2.2 Convolutional Neural Network Architecture
17
2.2.1
Data Preparation
This first step of using a CNN for any application is to collect data (in most cases
images or video frames for CNNs) from different sources. Section 2.4 highlights
some of the popular datasets that are often utilized for training and testing CNNs.
In case, the publicly available datasets are not suitable for a particular CNN appli-
cation, a designer needs to collect his/her own dataset. The collected dataset then
also needs to be annotated (either manually or with the help of some annotation
tool) for training. The data (images or frames) from the dataset often needs to be
resized to match the default size for a given CNN. Furthermore, the dataset is
also augmented by perturbing the input and/or output of the collected samples
to create various altered versions of the same data. Dataset augmentation provides
additional data to train and provides modified versions of the data. For instance,
in case of image data, image augmentation provides a different viewpoint to the
CNN model. These different viewpoints can represent changes in the saturation,
color, crop, and horizontal and vertical flips [55]. Dataset augmentation also helps
to reduce over-fitting of a CNN model to the training data.
2.2.2
Building Blocks of CNNs
A CNN architecture comprises a stack of distinct layers that transform the input
to output. In the following, we discuss the distinct layers that are commonly used
in CNN architectures.
2.2.2.1
Convolutional Layers
The core layers in CNNs that distinguish CNNs from other DNNs are convolu-
tional (CONV) layers. CNNs contain multiple CONV layers. The parameters in
CONV layers are a set of learnable filters (or kernels), which have a small receptive
field. During the forward pass, each filter computes the dot product between the
filter entries and the input. The filter is then slided across the width and height
of the input to produce a two-dimensional activation map of that filter. As the
training progresses, the network learns filters that activate when they detect some
particular type of feature at some spatial position in the input.
In CNNs, each successive layer extracts features that are at a higher level of
abstraction compared to the previous layers. Modern CNNs are capable of achiev-
ing superior performance by employing a deep hierarchy of layers. The CONV
layers in a CNN are composed of multidimensional convolution operations, as
shown in Figure 2.5. The input to the CONV layer is an H × W × C matrix, called
an input feature map (ifmap or IFM), where H and W are the height and width,
respectively, of the IFM and C is the total number of channels1. For an input layer
1 For a colored image, the value of C at the input layer is 3 which represents the RGB
colorspace. For a grayscale image, the value of C at the input layer is 1.

--- Strana 36 ---
18
2 Overview of Convolutional Neural Networks
M
C
C
R
1
C
R
M
Filters
Input feature maps
Output feature maps
S
H
E
F
W
=
*
Figure 2.5
Multidimensional convolution operation performed in a CNN CONV layer.
There are M ﬁlters of R (ﬁlter height) ×S (ﬁlter width) ×C (the number of input channels)
dimension. The dimension of input feature maps is H (input feature map height) ×W
(input feature map width) ×C (the number of input channels). The dimension of output
feature maps is E (output feature map height) ×F (output feature map width) ×M (the
number of output channels, which is same as the number of ﬁlters).
of a CNN, this IFM is usually a 224 × 224 × 3 image, which is used in the ImageNet
dataset. Each channel of the IFM is convolved with a unique 2D filter (weight)
from a set of filters, one for each channel. The dimensions of the output feature
maps are dependent on the size of the input and the filters. Based on Figure 2.5,
the following equation governs the multidimensional convolution operation in a
CONV layer of a CNN:
O[z][u][x][y] = B[u] +
C−1
∑
k =0
S−1
∑
i=0
R−1
∑
j=0
I[z][k][Ux + i][Uy + j] × W[u][k][i][j],
0 ≤z < N,
0 ≤u < M,
0 ≤x < F,
0 ≤y < E,
E = (H −R + U)∕U,
F = (W −S + U)∕U
(2.2)
where O, B, I, and W denote the output feature map (OFM or ofmap), bias,
ifmap, and filter matrices, respectively, U represents the convolution stride, and
N denotes the batch size.
A multibatch CONV (N > 1) can improve the throughput as compared to a
single-batch (N = 1) CONV. Figure 2.6 demonstrates the difference between
the single-batch and multibatch CONV operations. When executing the CONV
operations with N (N > 1) batches, N ifmaps (the dimension of a single ifmap
is H × W × C) can be convolved simultaneously. During the multibatch CONV
operations, the same filters (M filters with R × S × C filter dimension) are shared

--- Strana 37 ---
2.2 Convolutional Neural Network Architecture
19
1
M
R
R
S
H
C
C
...
*
=
W
C
E
F
M
Filters
1
1
1
M
R
R
S
H
C
C
*
...
=
W
C
E
F
M
Filters
Input feature maps
(ifmaps)
Output feature maps
(ofmaps)
1
N
(a)
(b)
N
M
R
R
S
H
C
C
...
*
=
W
C
E
F
M
...
...
N ifmaps
N ofmaps
Input feature maps
(ifmaps)
S
S
S
Output feature maps
(ofmaps)
Figure 2.6
The demonstration of (a) single-batch CONV operations and (b) multibatch
CONV operations.
across the batches, generating N ofmaps (the dimension of a single ofmap is
E × F × M). Multibatch CONV can also improve the reusability of the filters due
to the filter sharing across the batches.
2.2.2.2
Pooling Layers
CNNs contain many pooling layers. Pooling is performed mainly for down-
sampling the feature maps by aggregating features from local regions to make
the CNN less compute-intensive. Pooling also helps CNNs to learn larger-scale

--- Strana 38 ---
20
2 Overview of Convolutional Neural Networks
10
20
17
9
7
9
8
13
19
5
8
9
5
7
5
7
8
10
20
8
7
4
6
2
3
2
1
7
10
13
10
2
5
9
8
8
8
1
3
4
6
7
15
1
8
4
3
6
17
2
9
5
19
10
2 × 2 max pooling
stride 2
2 × 2 avg. pooling
stride 2
Figure 2.7
Max and averaging pooling on a 6 × 6 ifmap.
image features that are invariant to small local transformations (e.g., transla-
tion, scaling, shearing, and rotation) [56]. Pooling layers generally use max or
averaging operations on nonoverlapping blocks of ifmaps. A stride of nonunit
size is applied to reduce the dimensionality of the ifmaps. Figure 2.7 shows an
example of max and average pooling applied on a 6 × 6 ifmap to produce 3 × 3
outputs.
The output of the pooling layer can be determined by the input matrix size
(H × W), the spatial extent of pooling (i.e., K × K pooling filter), and stride S.
The pooling layer will generate the output matrix of dimension ((H −K)∕S + 1) ×
((W −K)∕S + 1). For C channels of ifmap (i.e., H × W × C), the pooling operations
can be applied independently to each H × W matrix, generating the output with
((H −K)∕S + 1) × ((W −K)∕S + 1) × C dimension.
2.2.2.3
Fully Connected Layers
A CNN, typically, also comprises a few FC layers after several CONV and pooling
layers for classification purposes. Neurons in a layer have connections to all activa-
tions in the previous layer, just like MLP networks. The activations of the FC layers
can be computed by affine transformations, that is, multiplication of the activation
values of the previous layer with the weights of their connections with neurons in
the FC layer followed by a vector addition of learned or fixed bias terms.
As the FC layer can be calculated by an affine transformation Wi + b, where W,
i, and b are weights, inputs, and bias, respectively; the output dimension of the FC
layer depends on the size of W and i. Assuming that we have IFC input neurons and
OFC output neurons, W will be an OFC × IFC matrix, and i will be an IFC × 1 vector,
generating an OFC × 1 vector as an output as shown in Figure 2.8. A bias and a
nonlinear activation function can be applied to this OFC × 1 vector to generate the
output neurons y.

--- Strana 39 ---
2.2 Convolutional Neural Network Architecture
21
…
…
…
IFC
W
W
i
b
f
y
OFC
OFC × IFC
IFC × 1
OFC × 1
=
×
+
Figure 2.8
Afﬁne transformation in the fully connected layer.
2.2.3
Parameters of CNNs
A machine learning or deep learning model, including a CNN model, is defined or
characterized by the model parameters. On the other hand, the process of training
a model involves selecting the optimal hyperparameters that the learning algo-
rithm employs to learn the optimal parameters that befittingly map the input fea-
tures to the labels or targets to achieve some form of machine intelligence [57].
Parameters of a CNN are internal to the model. The parameters of a CNN model
are learned or estimated entirely from the data during training as the algorithm
used in the model strives to learn the mapping between the input features and the
targets or labels. CNN model training begins with the parameters being initialized
to some random values (e.g., using uniform distribution) or zeros. These initial
parameter values are continuously updated using an optimization algorithm (e.g.,
gradient descent) as the training progresses. Although the parameter values are
regularly updated as the training progresses, the hyperparameter values set by the
model designer remain unchanged. The model parameters constitute the model
itself at the end of the training process [57]. For a CNN model, parameters are the
weights and the biases of the model.
2.2.4
Hyperparameters of CNNs
Hyperparameters are variables that determine the neural network structure
(e.g., the number of hidden layers and neurons within each layer) and also
the variables that control the learning process (e.g., learning rate) [58]. CNNs
use more hyperparameters than MLPs. The prefix “hyper” implies that these
are “top-level” parameters that control the network structure and the learning
process. Essentially, any parameter in machine learning or deep learning that a
designer chooses or selects its configuration before training begins and whose

--- Strana 40 ---
22
2 Overview of Convolutional Neural Networks
value or configuration stays the same when training completes is referred to as a
hyperparameter.
Some examples of the hyperparameters for CNNs are [57] train-test split
ratio, learning rate in optimization algorithms, choice of optimization algorithm
(e.g., gradient descent, stochastic gradient descent, or Adam optimizer), choice
of activation function in a neural network layer (e.g., Sigmoid, ReLU, Tanh
(Figure 2.2)), the choice of cost or loss function the model uses, number of hidden
layers in a neural network, number of activation units in each layer, the drop-out
rate (or dropout probability) in a neural network, number of iterations (epochs)
in training a neural network, kernel or filter sizes in convolutional layers, pooling
size, and batch size.
We can broadly classify hyperparameters into two categories: (i) hyperparam-
eters related to network structure, and (ii) hyperparameters related to training
process.
2.2.4.1
Hyperparameters Related to Network Structure
Hyperparameters related to network structure include number of hidden layers
and units, drop-out rate (or dropout probability) in a neural network, and the
choice of activation function in a neural network layer. We elaborate some of the
hyperparameters related to network structure in the following:
Number of Hidden Layers and Units: The layers between the input layer and
the output layer are referred to as hidden layers. The number of hidden lay-
ers in a CNN as well as the number of neurons within each hidden layer are
hyperparameters of a CNN. When designing a new CNN, a general rule is to
keep adding the hidden layers and the number of hidden units (neurons) in
each layer until the test error does not improve anymore. Increasing the num-
ber of hidden units within each layer along with some regularization techniques
tends to increase the accuracy of a CNN. A smaller number of units in a CNN
hidden layer may cause underfitting. A large number of neurons in the hid-
den layer without appropriate regularization may lead to overfitting the model
on the training data, which often result in low accuracy of the model on the
validation and test data.
Drop-out Probability: Drop-out is regularization technique aimed to mitigate
overfitting of the CNN model to the training data and to help increase the val-
idation and test accuracy of the model. Drop-out, thus, helps to increase the
generalizing power of the CNN or the DNN model. Typically, a small dropout
value/probability of 20–50% of neurons is chosen with 20% providing a good
starting point [58]. A very small value of drop-out probability has a minimal
effect and a very high value results in under-learning by the network. Often bet-
ter performance can be achieved if drop-out is used on a large network, which

--- Strana 41 ---
2.2 Convolutional Neural Network Architecture
23
gives the model a greater opportunity to learn the mapping from input features
to target labels.
Activation Function: Activation functions are employed in DNNs, including
CNNs, to introduce nonlinearity to models, which enables deep learning mod-
els to learn nonlinear prediction boundaries. Generally, the ReLU activation
function is the most commonly used activation in DNNs. Sigmoid activation
function is typically used in the output layer of a DNN while making binary
predictions, whereas Softmax activation function is used in the output layer
of a DNN while making multiclass predictions.
2.2.4.2
Hyperparameters Related to Training
Hyperparameters related to training process include learning rate, loss function,
optimization algorithm, momentum, number of epochs, and batch size. We elab-
orate some of the hyperparameters related to training process in the following:
Learning Rate: The learning rate of a training algorithm employed by a machine
learning and/or deep learning model determines the step size at each itera-
tion while moving toward a minimum of a loss function. The learning rate
influences to what extent or how quickly the newly learned information over-
rides or updates the older information (model parameters in deep learning con-
text), and thus it metaphorically signifies the speed at which a machine learning
model “learns.” A low learning rate decelerates the learning process but ensures
smooth convergence. A high learning rate accelerates the learning process but
may cause the learning process to not converge. Often a decaying learning rate
is preferred.
Loss Function: DNNs, including CNNs, learn through a process called forward
propagation where each training input is loaded into the neural network and
given a forward pass. Once the network produces an output, this predicted out-
put is compared with the given target output (label) in a process called back-
propagation. A loss function is a function that compares the target and predicted
output values and provides an estimate of how well the neural network models
the training data [59]. The average loss J for DNNs can be given as:
J(w, b) = 1
k
k
∑
i=1
L(y(i), ̂y(i))
(2.3)
where ̂y(i) denotes the predicted output value and y(i) denotes the target output
value for a sample i, i ∈{1, 2, 3, … , k} in the training data, and L denotes a loss
function that measures the “cost” of predicting an output ̂y(i) = f(xi; w, b) for
an input xi and model parameters w and b when the corresponding target is y(i)
[60]. The goal of training is to find weights w and bias b to minimize this average
loss J between the predicted and target outputs. The parameters of the model

--- Strana 42 ---
24
2 Overview of Convolutional Neural Networks
(i.e., weights and biases) are then adjusted so that the network outputs a result
closer to the target output.
There are two main types of loss functions: (i) regression loss functions, and
(ii) classification loss functions. Regression loss functions are used in regression
neural networks. For a given input value, regression neural networks predict a
corresponding output value instead of a preselected label. Examples of regres-
sion loss functions include mean squared error and mean absolute error. Classi-
fication loss functions are used in classification neural networks. For a given input
value, classification neural networks predict a vector of probabilities of the input
belonging to various preset categories out of which the category with the highest
probability can be selected as the predicted category [59]. Examples of classifica-
tion loss functions include binary cross-entropy and categorical cross-entropy.
CNNs often use binary cross-entropy and categorical cross-entropy loss func-
tions. Binary cross-entropy also known as log loss is used in CNNs with binary
classification models, that is, the CNN models that have to classify a given input
into one of the two preset categories. Categorical cross-entropy loss functions
are used in CNN models where the models have to classify a given input into
one of the many preset categories where the number of classes/categories is
greater than two. One can also define custom loss functions when traditional
loss functions may not be sufficient for a given task.
Optimization Algorithm: DNNs, including CNNs, employ an optimization algo-
rithm to update the weights of a neural network through backpropagation. Gra-
dient descent is one of the most popular optimization methods for finding the
minimum of a function, and different variants of gradient descent optimiza-
tion algorithms are employed by DNNs. A vanilla (standard) stochastic gradient
descent (SGD) updates weights by subtracting the current weight by a factor
(i.e., learning rate 𝛼) of its gradient [61].
wnew = w −𝛼𝜕L
𝜕w
(2.4)
where L denotes the loss function. Different variants of SGD algorithms can be
obtained by introducing some variations in Eq. (2.4). Three common variations
include (i) adapting the gradient component (𝜕L∕𝜕w), (ii) adapting the learning
rate component (𝛼), and (iii) adapting both the gradient and learning rate com-
ponents. For the variants that adapt the gradient component, instead of using
only a single gradient like in vanilla SGD to update the weights, an aggregate
of multiple gradients is used to update the weights. In particular, many of these
optimizers use the exponential moving average of gradients. For the variants
that adapt the learning rate component, instead of using a constant learning
rate, the learning rate component is adapted based on the magnitude of the gra-
dients. The learning rate must be prudently adapted to ensure good progress
while thwarting overshooting and exploding gradients [60]. Often, the learning

--- Strana 43 ---
2.2 Convolutional Neural Network Architecture
25
rate is set to a relatively large value at the start of the training process and then
it is decreased over time so that the optimization settles into a global minimum.
The modern SGD optimizers aim to enhance the amount of information used
to update the weights, primarily through using previous (and future) gradients,
instead of only relying on the current gradient. Some of the commonly used
SGD optimizers include AdaGrad, RMSprop, Adadelta, NAG, Adam, AdaMax,
Nadam, and AMSGrad.
Momentum: Momentum helps to determine the direction of the next step with
the knowledge of the previous steps. Momentum speeds up the learning process
and also helps the learning process to find a global minimum and not to get
stuck in local minima. A momentum value of 0.5–0.9 is typically chosen for
DNNs [58].
Number of Epochs: An epoch is one single pass of the entire training set through
the neural network. Number of epochs is the number of times the complete
training data is presented to the network while training [58]. Typically, increas-
ing the number of epochs improves the accuracy of a DNN, including a CNN.
As a general rule, a designer can choose to increase the number of epochs until
the validation accuracy starts decreasing even when training accuracy could be
increasing due to overfitting.
Batch Size: A batch size is the number of samples presented to the network after
which the update of model parameters happens. In other words, batch size is
the number of samples that are passed through the network at one time. The
batch is also commonly referred to as mini-batch.
To better understand the concept of batch size, let us consider an example.
Assume our training set comprises 1000 images of cats, and we aim to train our
CNN to identify different breeds of cats. Further assume that we select the batch
size hyperparameter to be 10. This implies that 10 images of cats will be passed
as a batch or group to the network at one time. Considering that a single epoch
is one single pass of the entire training data through the network, it will take
100 batches to constitute the full epoch. Number of batches in an epoch NB can
be given as NB = ST∕SB, where ST denotes the training set size and SB denotes
the batch size. For the considered example, NB = 1000/10 = 100.
2.2.4.3
Hyperparameter Tuning
A CNN designer selects the hyperparameter values that the learning algorithm
will use before even the training begins. Setting the right hyperparameter values is
imperative because hyperparameters directly impact the performance of the CNN
model as the model parameters learned during the training process depend on the
hyperparameters. The process of selecting the best hyperparameters for a CNN
model is called hyperparameter tuning.

--- Strana 44 ---
26
2 Overview of Convolutional Neural Networks
At the completion of the training process, we obtain trained model parameters,
which are essentially what we refer to as the model. The hyperparameters that
were used during training are not part of this model, that is, it cannot be inferred
from the trained model what hyperparameter values were used to train the model
from the model itself [57].
2.3
Popular CNN Models
Many CNN models have been developed by researchers in the past. These models
have different architectures in terms of layer dimensions, the total number of lay-
ers, layer types, and layer connections. This section provides an overview of some
of the most popular CNN models.
2.3.1
AlexNet
We start off by discussing the AlexNet [30] model which was proposed in 2012.
AlexNet is the first CNN to win the ImageNet challenge [2]. AlexNet has been
considered a major breakthrough in the field of computer vision that paved the
way for widespread use of CNNs. Figure 2.9 shows the architecture of AlexNet. It
comprises five CONV layers and three FC layers. Max pooling is performed after
every CONV layer to reduce the layer dimensions. AlexNet has a total of 61 million
parameters and achieves a top-1 accuracy of 57.2% and a top-5 accuracy of 80.3%
on ImageNet dataset. The CONV layers of AlexNet have three kernel (filter) sizes:
11 × 11, 5 × 5, and 3 × 3.
2.3.2
VGGNet
VGGNet [31] architecture was proposed in 2014. VGGNet has different versions
with each version having a different number of layers. The version shown in
5
5
55
48
11
11
27
5
5
55
11
11
224
224
3
48
128
3
3
3
3
13
13
13
13
192
192
192
192
128
128
3
13
13
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
128
27
Stride
of 4
Max
pooling
Max
pooling
Max
pooling
Dense
Dense
Dense
2048
2048
2048
2048
1000
Figure 2.9
AlexNet architecture. Source: [30] Krizhevsky et al., 2012/Curran and
Associates.

--- Strana 45 ---
2.3 Popular CNN Models
27
Input image
Conv 1-1
Conv 1-2
Conv 2-1
Conv 3-1
Conv 3-2
Conv 3-3
Conv 2-2
Pooing
Pooing
Pooing
Conv 4-1
Conv 4-2
Conv 4-3
Pooing
Conv 5-1
Conv 5-2
Conv 5-3
Pooing
Dense
Dense
Dense
Output
Figure 2.10
VGG-16 architecture. Source: Adapted from [31].
Figure 2.10 is VGG-16, the 16-layer version of VGGNet, which has a total of 13
CONV layers and 3 FC layers. VGG-16 has a total of 138 million parameters
and achieves top-1 and top-5 accuracies of 68.5% and 88.7%, respectively. The
accuracy jump in VGG-16 as compared to AlexNet can be attributed to the use of a
greater number of CONV layers, which helps to extract more features at different
scales as compared to AlexNet. This use of a large number of CONV layers,
however, also results in a significant increase in the model parameters which
makes VGG-16 much slower than the AlexNet. AlexNet, however, uses variable
filter dimensions which make it much more difficult to implement in hardware.
VGG-16, on the other hand, only uses filter dimensions of 3 × 3 making it easier
to employ hardware-based acceleration.
2.3.3
GoogleNet
GoogleNet [35], depicted in Figure 2.11, was proposed in 2014 and is a very
parameter-efficient CNN architecture. Even though it has a total of 58 layers (57
CONV and 1 FC), it only has 7 million parameters. GoogleNet comprises special-
ized modules, referred to as the Inception modules, as shown in Figure 2.12. The
Inception modules comprise four branches of variable length filters (1 × 1, 3 × 3,
5 × 5). The GoogleNet achieves top-1 and top-5 accuracies of 68.9% and 89.0%,
respectively.
2.3.4
SqueezeNet
SqueezeNet (Figure 2.13), proposed in 2016, targets mobile applications by having
a relatively smaller number of model parameters (1.2 million), but with accuracy
comparable to the AlexNet. It comprises a total of 26 CONV layers and no FC
layer. SqueezeNet has eight unique modules, which it refers to as Fire modules.
The Fire modules are an improvement over GoogleNet’s Inception module and
use 1 × 1 convolution and a pair of 1 × 1 and 3 × 3 convolutions. It has a top-1
and top-5 accuracy of 57.4% and 80.5%, respectively. SqueezeNet’s primary pur-
pose is to provide CNN support for low-cost embedded platforms with accuracy
level comparable to the existing models.

--- Strana 46 ---
28
2 Overview of Convolutional Neural Networks
softmax2
softmax1
SoftmaxActivation
SoftmaxActivation
SoftmaxActivation
AveragePool
7 × 7 + 1(V)
DepthConcat
DepthConcat
DepthConcat
DepthConcat
DepthConcat
DepthConcat
DepthConcat
DepthConcat
DepthConcat
LocalRespNorm
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
3 × 3 + 1(S)
Conv
5 × 5 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
MaxPool
3 × 3 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
3 × 3 + 1(S)
Conv
5 × 5 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
MaxPool
3 × 3 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
3 × 3 + 1(S)
Conv
5 × 5 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
MaxPool
3 × 3 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
3 × 3 + 1(S)
Conv
3 × 3 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(V)
Conv
7 × 7 + 2(S)
Conv
5 × 5 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
MaxPool
3 × 3 + 1(S)
MaxPool
3 × 3 + 2(S)
MaxPool
3 × 3 + 2(S)
LocalRespNorm
MaxPool
3 × 3 + 2(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
3 × 3 + 1(S)
Conv
5 × 5 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
MaxPool
3 × 3 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
3 × 3 + 1(S)
Conv
5 × 5 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
FC
FC
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
MaxPool
3 × 3 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
3 × 3 + 1(S)
Conv
5 × 5 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
MaxPool
3 × 3 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
3 × 3 + 1(S)
Conv
5 × 5 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
MaxPool
3 × 3 + 1(S)
AveragePool
5 × 5 + 3(V)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
3 × 3 + 1(S)
Conv
5 × 5 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
FC
FC
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
Conv
1 × 1 + 1(S)
MaxPool
3 × 3 + 1(S)
AveragePool
5 × 5 + 3(V)
MaxPool
3 × 3 + 2(S)
FC
softmax0
input
Figure 2.11
GoogleNet architecture. Source: Szegedy et al. [35].

--- Strana 47 ---
2.3 Popular CNN Models
29
Filter
concatenation
1 × 1 convolutions
1 × 1 convolutions
Previous layer
3 × 3 convolutions
1 × 1 convolutions
5 × 5 convolutions
3 × 3 max pooling
1 × 1 convolutions
Figure 2.12
Inception module. Source: Szegedy et al. [35].
conv1
maxpool/2
96
fire2
128
fire3
128
fire4
256
maxpool/2
fire5
256
fire6
fire7
384
384
512
fire8
maxpool/2
fire9
512
conv10
1000
global avgpool
softmax
Figure 2.13
SqueezeNet architecture. Source: [62] Iandola et al., 2016/Kurt Keutzer.
2.3.5
Binary Neural Networks
Another class of CNNs that significantly reduce the total number of multiply
accumulate (MAC) computations, resulting from CONV operations, are the
binary neural networks (BNNs). BinaryConnect [63] modified the weights to only
have two possible values (−1 and +1). These modified weights reduced the MAC
operations to simple additions and subtractions. BNN [64] further extended the
concept to activations as well which reduced the MAC operations to much more
hardware-friendly XNORs. This, however, severely impacted the accuracy of the
BNN [65].
2.3.6
EfﬁcientNet
Recently, another class of CNNs, referred to as EfficientNets, have been proposed
[4, 66]. EfficientNet [66], proposed in 2019, uses a dynamic scaling approach to
scale all the dimensions of depth, width, and resolution, using a simple yet effec-
tive compound coefficient. The intuition behind the compound scaling method is

--- Strana 48 ---
30
2 Overview of Convolutional Neural Networks
that if the input image is bigger in size, then the network requires more layers to
increase the receptive field and additional channels to extract more fine-grained
patterns on the bigger image. An EfficientNet variant, EfficientNet-B7, has a top-1
accuracy of 84.3% on ImageNet while having a parameter count of 43 million. Effi-
cientNetv2 [4] builds upon EfficientNet and drastically reduces the total number
of parameters to 24 million with a slight decrease in accuracy to 83.9%.
There exist many other CNN models, all of which cannot be described within the
scope of this book. However, it can be seen that by applying various algorithmic
and architectural approaches, the size of CNNs continues to decrease while the
accuracy keeps on increasing with time.
2.4
Popular CNN Datasets
A CNN is typically designed taking into account the complexity and difficulty of
the task that CNN will be used for. A simple task of digit recognition requires a
much simpler CNN than a CNN that is used for classifying an object into one of
the 1000 classes of objects. LeNet [5], which is a much smaller CNN, is designed
for the task of digit classification, whereas more complex CNNs like AlexNet [30],
GoogleNet [35], ResNet [32], and MobileNets [33, 34] are built for complex image
classification tasks (e.g., classifying an object into one of the 1000 classes). In the
following, we briefly describe some of the datasets that are often used for bench-
marking the accuracy/performance of CNNs.
2.4.1
MNIST Dataset
The MNIST dataset [67], introduced in 1998, is used for digit classification. The
dataset comprises images of handwritten digits. The images are 28 × 28 in dimen-
sions and are in grayscale format. There are a total of 10 classes, one for each digit
from 0 to 9. The dataset consists of 60,000 training images and 10,000 test images.
The LeNet-5 [5] CNN was able to achieve an accuracy of 99.05% on the MNIST
dataset. This accuracy has further increased to 99.79% using regularization tech-
niques. The MNIST has become a fairly simple dataset and is, therefore, rarely
used as a metric for CNN performance these days.
2.4.2
CIFAR
CIFAR dataset [68] was introduced in 2009 and consists of 32 × 32 colored images
of objects. CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100 comprise 10 and 100 classes of objects,
respectively. In CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100, each dataset has a total of 50,000
training images and 10,000 test images. Most modern CNNs are able to achieve a
high level of accuracy (≈96.5%) on the CIFAR dataset.

--- Strana 49 ---
2.5 CNN Processing Hardware
31
2.4.3
ImageNet
The ImageNet dataset [2], introduced in 2010, is by far the most widely used
dataset for the accuracy benchmarking of modern CNNs. It contains color images
of dimensions 256 × 256 in 1000 classes. There are multiple categories of classes
with no overlap between each category. The ImageNet dataset has a total of 1.3
million training images, 100,000 test images, and 50,000 validation images. The
ImageNet uses two measures to report a model’s accuracy: top-1 and top-5 error
rates. The top-1 error rate is the percentage of test images for which the model’s
most likely label is not the correct label. The top-5 error rate is the percentage
of test images for which the correct label is not among the model’s top five most
likely labels.
Since 2010, an annual software contest, the ImageNet Large Scale Visual Recog-
nition Challenge (ILSVRC), is run by the ImageNet project, where different algo-
rithms/models compete to correctly classify and detect objects and scenes at large
scale. The ILSVRC challenge uses a subset of the ImageNet dataset. AlexNet [30]
competed in the ILSVRC in 2012 and achieved a top-5 error of 16.4%, which was
more than 10% lower than that of the runner up, which didn’t use a CNN. The
top-1 error achieved by AlexNet in ILSVRC 2012 was 38.1%. These results served
as a breakthrough for the use of CNNs for image classification and other computer
vision tasks. Since then, the accuracy of CNNs has significantly improved with the
latest CNNs having the top-5 accuracy as high as 99.02% [69].
2.5
CNN Processing Hardware
As edge computing is gaining traction in recent years, there is a desire to push CNN
inference on edge devices [70]. Furthermore, many of the intelligent edge applica-
tions/systems, such as surveillance [71], autonomous vehicles [72, 73], smart grid
[74], remote patient monitoring [75], predictive maintenance [76], also require
real-time response. Since edge devices are often resource-constrained, enabling
intelligent real-time applications on the edge necessitates the design of hardware
accelerators for CNN inference.
The popularity of CNNs as well as increasing demand of CNN inferences on
edge devices has led many researchers and companies to design specialized
hardware for accelerating CNN processing. Qualcomm’s neural processing
engine (NPE) [77], embedded in Snapdragon processors, enables accelerated
processing of 8-bit quantized DNN models on mobile devices. Google’s tensor
processing unit (TPU) [78] is another example of dedicated CNN processing
hardware. The TPUv1 is an 8-bit systolic-array architecture comprising matrix
multiplication units (MXUs), static random access memory (SRAM) buffers,

--- Strana 50 ---
32
2 Overview of Convolutional Neural Networks
and activation logic used primarily for CNN inferences. The TPUv2, in addition
to inferences, also supports training by employing 16-bit precision. The TPUv3
further improves the computational capability by increasing the number of
MXUs, memory bandwidth, clock frequency, etc. Xilinx provides a deep learning
processing unit (DPU) [79] for its Zynq Ultrascale+ MPSoC (MultiProcessor
System On Chip) devices. The Xilinx DPU specifically targets the acceleration of
CNNs in field-programmable gate array (FPGA) devices. Samsung Exynos 2100
mobile processor, powering Samsung Galaxy S21 smartphones, uses triple-core
neural processing unit (NPU) [80] and can perform 26 trillion/Tera operations
per second (TOPS) for accelerated video processing applications.
If we look closely into the structure of CNNs, we can notice that the basic com-
ponent in a CNN is a MAC operation. Both the CONV and the FC layers use MAC
operation for the generation of OFMs from IFMs. Therefore, the main problem
of CNN acceleration boils down to the acceleration of MAC operations. The three
most commonly used computation paradigms for CNN processing are temporal
architectures, spatial architectures, and near-memory processing.
2.5.1
Temporal Architectures
A temporal architecture is operated by instructions, which eventually provide bet-
ter flexibility and programmability. Depending on the instruction, the control unit
generates appropriate control signals to execute the instruction. The generated
control signals control the computation unit and memory in accordance with the
required operations to execute the instruction. In the case of the temporal archi-
tecture, the data is transferred between the memory (or register) and computation
unit when executing each instruction, resulting in high data transfer overhead.
Figure 2.14a depicts an overview of temporal architectures.
Computation 
unit
Memory
Control
unit
Computation 
unit
Output
memory 
Computation 
unit
Input memory
Instructions
(a)
(b)
Figure 2.14
A comparison
between (a) temporal
architecture and (b) spatial
architecture.

--- Strana 51 ---
2.5 CNN Processing Hardware
33
The temporal architectures are equivalent to central processing unit (CPU) and
graphics processing unit (GPU) architectures. These architectures contain a large
number of arithmetic logic units (ALUs), all of which can communicate directly
with the memory, but cannot communicate with one another. These architec-
tures use single instruction multiple data (SIMD) processing for improving paral-
lelism. Furthermore, computational transforms are applied on the kernel matrices
to reduce the total number of computations for increasing the throughput.
Many CPU and GPU architectures are optimized for matrix multiplication oper-
ations. These platforms typically implement CONV and FC layers using matrix
multiplications. Figure 2.15 shows two of the most widely used convolution trans-
formations for reducing the computational workload. Figure 2.15a uses Toeplitz
transformation for converting convolution operations to a general matrix multipli-
cation which can be carried out using efficient specialized hardware of a processor
or a GPU. The disadvantage of using such transformation is the additional memory
requirement of storing redundant data which can lead to memory inefficiencies.
Figure 2.15b shows conversion of convolution operations into fast Fourier trans-
form (FFT) computations. FFT-based approaches [81, 82] reduce the computa-
tional workload of convolution operations from O(N2M2) to O(N2log2N), where
the ofmap size is N × N and the filter size is M × M [6]. In FFT-based transfor-
mation, the input and the weight matrices are transformed into their frequency
domain counterparts and then multiplications are performed in the frequency
domain. Inverse fast Fourier transform (IFFT) transformation is applied to the
output to bring the result back in the spatial domain, as shown in Figure 2.15b.
Even though FFT-based approaches reduce the total number of computations,
they require more memory and bandwidth as the size of the FFT is determined
(b)
(a)
a b c d
a b c d
a
a
d
g
b
e
h
c
f
i
b
c
d
W
FFTW
FFTifmap
FFTofmap
Ifmap
ofmap
a
b
c
d
X
a
b
d
e
b
c
e
f
d
e
g
h
e
f
h
i
=
=
*
=
*
=
FFT transformation
IFFT
Toeplitz matrix transformation
X
Figure 2.15
Kernel transformation. (a) Convolution to matrix multiplication using
Toeplitz matrix and (b) equivalent fast Fourier transform (FFT) computation.

--- Strana 52 ---
34
2 Overview of Convolutional Neural Networks
by the size of the output feature map which is typically much larger than the filter
size. The FFT also produces complex coefficients which require more storage.
Many other algorithms have been proposed for reducing the total number of
MACs required for convolution by applying different transformation techniques.
Cong and Xiao [83] use Strassen’s algorithm [84] for reducing the total number of
multiplications from O(N3) to O(N2.81). Similarly, Lavin [85] use Winograd trans-
formation [86] for accelerating convolution operations involving 3 × 3 filters.
2.5.2
Spatial Architectures
A spatial architecture has a fixed2 dataflow for operation, which sacrifices the
flexibility and programmability. However, a spatial architecture has a lightweight
control unit because of the fixed dataflow and can reduce the amount of the data
transfer between the computation unit and the memory. Spatial architectures can
lead to better performance and energy efficiency than temporal architectures due
to reduction in the data transfer overhead. Figure 2.14b depicts an overview of
spatial architectures.
The spatial architectures, used for CNN acceleration in application-specific inte-
grated circuits (ASICs) and FPGAs, use different dataflows for passing data among
different ALUs (also called processing elements [PEs]) in an efficient manner to
increase the throughput and energy efficiency.
Many previously proposed accelerator architectures have focused on perfor-
mance improvement; however, one of the major bottlenecks that limit a CNN
accelerator’s performance is the data movement. CNN inference generates a
significant amount of data that needs to be moved to and from the off-chip
memory. There are four memory transactions during a MAC operation in a CNN:
filter read, ifmap read, partial sum (psum) read, and psum write. Partial sums are
intermediate outputs that are generated as a result of a MAC operation. Because
of big layer sizes and a limited number of parallel multipliers in hardware,
intermediate sums (psums) need to be stored in the memory and then used later
to generate the ofmaps. Instead of using the dynamic random access memory
(DRAM), which results in higher energy consumption, spatial architectures
use local memory hierarchy for storing the intermediate results on the less
energy-consuming on-chip SRAM memory. Since the on-chip SRAM memory is
very limited, specialized dataflows are designed to maximize the reuse of the data
brought on-chip from the DRAM.
Many dataflows have been proposed to limit the movement of the data
off-chip for minimizing the energy consumption. The weight stationary dataflow
2 Some spatial architectures can also support the instruction-based execution; however, they
support only a small number of instructions for a specific domain.

--- Strana 53 ---
2.5 CNN Processing Hardware
35
Buffer
MAC
MAC
MAC
MAC
W
W
W
W
Buffer
MAC
MAC
MAC
MAC
P
P
P
P
Buffer
MAC
MAC
MAC
MAC
PE
PE
PE
PE
PE
PE
PE
PE
PE
PE
PE
PE
(a)
(b)
(c)
Legend
Input
psum
Weight
W
P
Local register file
for weights
Local register file
for psums
Figure 2.16
Efﬁcient dataﬂows. (a) Weight stationary, (b) output stationary, and (c) no
local reuse. Source: Adapted from [6].
(Figure 2.16a) minimizes the energy consumption of reading weights by storing
them in a local register file (RF) of the PE. Since, in a CONV operation, the same
weight matrix is convolved with the input feature map, it makes sense to store
the weight locally instead of reading it from DRAM for every MAC operation.
The global buffer (“Buffer” in Figure 2.16) present on-chip stores the generated
psums and accumulates them across the PE array. Accelerator architectures
presented in [87] and [88] use weight stationary dataflow for data reuse. Output
stationary dataflow (Figure 2.16b) stores the psums in the local RF of the PEs. It,
therefore, minimizes the energy consumption of psum movement. The psums for
a particular ofmap are accumulated locally. No Local Reuse dataflow (Figure 2.16c)
eliminates the local memory (RF) inside the PEs, and instead, uses a bigger global
buffer. This is because, even though the RF memory is energy-efficient, it is
not area-efficient. Thus, eliminating RF memory translates into having a larger
on-chip global memory for more local data storage. DianNao [89] and DaDianNao
[90] use no local reuse dataflow in their accelerator architectures. Another
dataflow, referred to as the row stationary (RS) dataflow, was proposed in Eyeriss
accelerator [45]. It aims to maximize the reuse of all data types (weights, ifmaps,
and psums) for overall better energy efficiency. Comparison of different dataflows

--- Strana 54 ---
36
2 Overview of Convolutional Neural Networks
shows that the RS dataflow is the most energy-efficient owing to its minimum
off-chip data movement [45].
2.5.3
Near-Memory Processing
Near-memory processing techniques reduce the energy consumption by minimiz-
ing the off-chip data movement and performing computations in or near the mem-
ory as shown in Figure 2.17. show how energy consumption is minimized by the
reuse of data locally instead of going off-chip. There have been several enhance-
ments toward bringing data and processing much closer to memory to accelerate
the processing and minimize energy consumption. Embedded dynamic random
access memory (eDRAM) technology places high-density DRAM on the acceler-
ator chip for faster execution and minimum memory delays. It is approximately
2.85× denser than a standard SRAM and is 321× more energy-efficient than a
DDR3 memory [90]. A major downside of eDRAM is its higher cost compared to
standard DRAM memory. 3D memory technology, referred to as hybrid memory
cube (HMC), stacks DRAM on top of the chip to provide a higher bandwidth for
better performance than standard 2D memory architectures. The higher DRAM
bandwidth with near-memory computing enables more data transfer per unit time
CPU
Memory
(a)
(b)
CPU
Memory
Near-memory
accelerator
Legend
Data transfer
Computational load
Figure 2.17
Difference between (a) traditional architecture and (b) near-memory
processing. In a traditional architecture, all computations are performed in the CPU
incurring a huge data transfer overhead between the CPU and memory. When using
near-memory processing, the near-memory accelerator can take over a large amount of
the computations from the CPU. It leads to much less data transfer between the CPU and
memory as compared to the traditional architecture.

--- Strana 55 ---
2.6 Chapter Summary
37
due to the reduced transfer latency, which also results in better PE utilization and
computation throughput. Works like Neurocube [91] and Tetris [92] use HMC
technology for faster and more energy-efficient CNN inference.
Another approach found in the literature for faster and more energy-efficient
CNN inference is processing-in-memory. Since CNN inference requires MAC
operations, bringing trivial computations involving MAC into the memory itself
would eliminate the need for data movement, which in turn, would decrease the
energy consumption significantly. Zhang et al. [93] integrated MAC operations
directly in the SRAM array by using binary weights (+1 and −1). This gives an
energy saving of 12× as compared to a standard 1b read from the SRAM cell.
The approach by Zhang et al. [93], however, hampers the CNN accuracy on the
account of using binary weights.
2.6
Chapter Summary
This chapter discussed the architecture of CNNs focusing on the main layers com-
prising CNNs and the parameters and hyperparameters for CNNs. Afterward, this
chapter described some of the most popular high accuracy CNN models, such as
AlexNet, VGGNet, and GoogleNet. Subsequently, this chapter highlighted popular
datasets on which many of the contemporary CNNs operate on. The datasets that
were discussed in this chapter included MNIST, CIFAR, and ImageNet. Finally,
the chapter elaborated some of the architectural and algorithmic techniques for
efficient processing of high accuracy CNN models.

--- Strana 56 ---

--- Strana 57 ---
39
Part II
Compressive Coding for CNNs

--- Strana 58 ---

--- Strana 59 ---
41
3
Contemporary Advances in Compressive Coding for CNNs
This chapter provides a brief overview of compressive coding as well as highlights
recent advancements in compressive coding methods for convolutional neural net-
works (CNNs). This chapter begins with a brief background of compressive coding
methods for general applications. The chapter then discusses compressive coding
methods particularly used for CNNs, which are broadly classified into lossy and
lossless compression. The chapter then reviews recent advancements of compres-
sive coding methods for CNNs.
3.1
Background of Compressive Coding
Compressive coding techniques have been widely adopted in many applications.
These techniques can contribute to reducing the data size, eventually leading to
less memory and storage requirement. In addition, these techniques can reduce
the amount of the computation as they can reduce the amount of the data to be
processed.
The compression ratio can be determined as follows:
compression ratio =
original data size
compressed data size
(3.1)
The higher the compression ratio, the lesser the size needed for the data storage
or memory to retain the data within the storage or memory. It also means
that obtaining a high compression ratio makes the storage or memory usage
efficient. Compressive coding is very important for resource-constrained systems
(e.g., low-power edge devices) where the available local storage or memory size is
extremely small.
The compressive coding can be classified into two broad categories: lossy and
lossless compression. The lossy compression is suitable for applications that are
tolerant to data loss. The lossy compression cannot be used where even only a
Accelerators for Convolutional Neural Networks, First Edition.
Arslan Munir, Joonho Kong, and Mahmood Azhar Qureshi.
© 2024 The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Published 2024 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

--- Strana 60 ---
42
3 Contemporary Advances in Compressive Coding for CNNs
small amount of data loss is not tolerable because every bit of data is critical to
the functioning and performance of that application. Thus, the lossy compression
should be employed for an application by considering how much the quality of
the result is affected by data losses. As compared to the lossless compression,
lossy compression can generally lead to a better compression ratio as the lossy
compression can reduce the metadata size by exploiting the tolerance of an
application to data loss.
The lossless compression, contrary to the lossy compression, can fully recover
the compressed data to the original data with the help of metadata. Thus, the loss-
less compression can be broadly applied to a variety of applications regardless of
their tolerance to the data loss. However, as compared to the lossy compression, the
lossless data compression techniques generate more metadata when compressing
the data, and thus likely have a lower compression ratio. In addition, before using
the losslessly compressed data for computation, in many cases, we first need to
generate uncompressed form of the data, which are entirely same as the original
data, from the compressed data. When decompressing the losslessly compressed
data, it is likely to typically incur more decompression latency and energy over-
head as compared to the case of decompressing the lossy compressed data. This is
because the losslessly compressed data typically entails more metadata and com-
putation for decompression than the lossy compressed data to perfectly recover
the original data. Thus, when using the losslessly compressed data that need to
be decompressed prior to the operation, in situ decompression and operation are
desirable for better performance and energy efficiency. Figure 3.1 summarizes the
concept and pros/cons of the lossy and lossless compression methods.
Processing
element 
+ Data transfer latency reduction
+ Data transfer energy reduction
+ Computation complexity reduction
+ Better compression ratio
– Data loss
Processing
element
+ Data transfer latency reduction
+ Data transfer energy reduction
+ No data loss
– Worse compression ratio than 
 
lossy compression
Compressed data
+
less or no metadata
Compressed data
+
more metadata
Data transfer
Data transfer 
Memory or storage
Memory or storage
Lossless
compression 
Lossy 
compression 
Figure 3.1
Concepts and comparison of the lossy and lossless compression methods.

--- Strana 61 ---
3.3 Lossy Compression for CNNs
43
3.2
Compressive Coding for CNNs
CNNs typically have a lot of data to process at runtime. For inference, the
largest amount of data comes from the weights. Specifically, the huge weight
(parameter) size of the CNNs is one of the major hurdles for deploying the
CNNs in resource-constrained edge devices. For example, ResNet-152 [32] and
VGG-16 [31], which are very widely used CNN models, have weight sizes of
235 and 540 MB, respectively (in 32-bit floating-point precision). In addition, for
improving the accuracy of the CNN models, CNN models and parameter sizes
are expected to be further increased. Though the large weight size causes several
important challenges for CNN deployment in resource-constrained devices, one
of the most serious problems is limited memory (and/or storage size) of these
devices. The large weight data cannot be often fully loaded into the small memory
and storage of the resource-constrained devices. In addition, the large weight
size inevitably causes latency, power, and energy overhead when transferring the
weight data between the storage/memory and the processing units, such as central
processing units (CPUs), graphics processing units (GPUs), neural processing
units (NPUs), or accelerators, which are not desirable for resource-constrained
edge devices. By only storing the encoded (hence, the reduced size of) weight
data in device’s memory and/or storage, a more cost-efficient deployment of the
CNN models in resource-constrained devices can be achieved.
Considering the large size of CNN weights, the data compression is one
of the most promising solution to alleviate the storage of CNN weights. The
data compression approach for the CNN weights can also be classified into
two broad approaches: lossy and lossless compression. Since the CNNs have
accuracy-tolerant characteristic, data size and accuracy can be traded off. The
lossy compression exploits this characteristic to compress the data, reducing the
data transfer size and operation complexity. The lossless compression compresses
the data with the metadata, which can fully recover the original data without any
loss. In terms of accuracy, the lossless compression can result in a little better
accuracy as compared to the lossy compression. However, due to the metadata
size and the limit of the information entropy, the lossless compression shows
typically a less compression ratio than the lossy compression. In general, the lossy
compression does not contain the metadata.
3.3
Lossy Compression for CNNs
For lossy compression, several well-known techniques such as weight pruning [94]
and quantization [46] have been introduced. Though the weight pruning does
not actually reduce the data size, it increases the sparsity of the weight data by
replacing the near-zero weight elements with zero-valued elements, potentially

--- Strana 62 ---
44
3 Contemporary Advances in Compressive Coding for CNNs
improve the compression ratio when employing the compression methods such
as Huffman coding or run-length coding. The pruning can also reduce the num-
ber of neurons. If the connected weights to a certain neuron are all zero-values, we
can also remove that neuron, resulting in the reduction of the amount of the data
size and computations.
The quantization reduces weight elements’ size with a negligible loss of the CNN
accuracy. For example, while the conventional precision of the elements in CNNs
is single-precision floating-point (32-bit), 8-bit integer and 16-bit fixed-point preci-
sions are also widely used for cost-efficient CNN inferences, which can reduce the
weight size by 4× and 2×, respectively. Even further, as a more aggressive solution,
several works have been proposed to use 5-bit weight elements for deploying the
CNN models in resource-constrained systems [37, 95]. The 5-bit quantization
represents each weight element with either 5-bit log-based or 5-bit linear-based
one. Between the log- and linear-based quantization, the log-based representation
is more preferred. This is because (i) log-based approach can achieve a better
accuracy as compared to the linear-based approach [37], and (ii) log-based rep-
resentation is more hardware-friendly as it can replace multiplier with a shifter
[96]. It has been reported that the log-based representation shows very small
accuracy drops (e.g., 1.7% and 0.5% top-5 accuracy drop in AlexNet and VGG-16,
respectively).
3.4
Lossless Compression for CNNs
For lossless compression, entropy-based coding is a widely used approach. It
adopts a variable length encoding based on the occurrence probability of a
certain symbol in a datastream. Based on the probability, it assigns different code
lengths for encoding of the datastream. There are two widely used entropy-based
coding schemes: Huffman coding and arithmetic coding. When encoding the
data with Huffman coding, one generates Huffman tree (a type of binary tree)
which represents how data are encoded for each symbol based on the occurrence
probability of each symbol. Figure 3.2 depicts an example of the Huffman tree
generated from certain symbol occurrence probabilities. The higher occurrence
probability of a certain symbol has, the shorter length of the bits assigned for
encoding of the symbol. When decoding the data, one performs a tree traversal
from the root node to the leaf node by following the bit sequence. When we find
“0” in the bit sequence, we move to the left child, and while we move to the right
child when finding “1” in the bit sequence. When we arrive at the leaf node,
the corresponding symbol that is defined when generating the Huffman tree is
written to the decoded datastream and we perform the tree traversal from the root

--- Strana 63 ---
3.4 Lossless Compression for CNNs
45
A
B
C
D
E
1
0
0
0
0
1
1
1
Probability
Symbol
0.375
A
0.2
B
0.15
C
0.15
D
0.125
E
Symbol occurrence probability
Generated Huffman tree
Figure 3.2
An example of the Huffman tree.
node again. The tree traversals are repeatedly performed until we reach the end
of the encoded bitstream.
On the other hand, arithmetic coding encodes the data by mapping a stream of
the symbols into the real number space [0, 1). Figure 3.3 depicts an example of
the arithmetic coding. The example shows an encoding process of the datastream
“BDAC..” with the symbol occurrence probability in the datastream as presented
in the table of Figure 3.3. The first symbol “B” is mapped to the subrange [0.4, 0.7).
The symbol sequence “BD” should be mapped to the subrange within the range
[0.4, 0.7), resulting in mapping of the sequence to the subrange [0.67, 0.7). “BDA” is
also mapped to [0.67, 0.674), which is a subrange of the range [0.67, 0.7). Similarly,
“BDAC” will be mapped to [0.6728, 0.6736) as shown in Figure 3.3. Several weight
compression approaches based on Huffman coding have been introduced [46, 97]
because of its simplicity whereas little attention is paid to arithmetic coding. How-
ever, in general, arithmetic coding is known to result in a better compression ratio
as compared to Huffman coding [98]. Moreover, when applying the arithmetic
coding to the 5-bit quantized CNN weights, it also results in better compression
ratio as compared to Huffman coding [99].
As the CNN weights or feature maps show high sparsity due to pruning and
rectified linear unit (ReLU) activation, several lossless coding methods can also
be employed for sparse data compression. Since the dense format (i.e., storing
the matrix elements in the order of the coordinates in either row-major or
column-major order) is not efficient when storing the sparse matrix due to a huge
number of zero-valued elements, the compressive coding can also be employed
for efficiently storing the sparse data for CNNs.
One of the widely used lossless compression methods is a run-length coding.
The run-length coding encodes the datastream with combinations of the symbol

--- Strana 64 ---
46
3 Contemporary Advances in Compressive Coding for CNNs
Probability
Symbol
0.4
A
0.3
B
0.2
C
0.1
D
Encoding “BDAC..”
0
1
0.4
0.7
0.67
0.67
0.7
0.4
0.7
0.67
0.674
“B”
“BD”
“BDA”
“BDAC”
…
A
B
C
D
Symbol occurrence probability
0.674
0.6728
0.6736
Figure 3.3
An example of the arithmetic coding.
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
B
B
B
C
C
C
C
A
8
B
3
C
4
Run-length coding
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
6
1
1
3
1
Run-length coding
0
7
(a)
(b)
Figure 3.4
An example of
run-length coding with (a)
symbols and (b) sparse data.
and how many times this symbol is presented in a row. Figure 3.4a shows an
example of data compression with run-length coding. As shown in the example,
symbol “A,” “B,” and “C” appear eight times, three times, and four times, in
a row, respectively. Thus, we encode each symbol with ⟨symbol + unsigned
integer number⟩, where the “unsigned integer number” denotes the number of
times a symbol appears continuously in a sequence, resulting in the encoded

--- Strana 65 ---
3.4 Lossless Compression for CNNs
47
sequence “A8B3C4.” Here, run-length coding reduces the number of the elements
(numbers or symbols) from 15 to 6.
The run-length coding can be beneficial, in particular, for sparse data compres-
sion, where there are many zero-valued elements in a datastream. This is because
a long sequence of zero-valued elements can be converted to two elements ⟨“0” +
integer number⟩. Figure 3.4b shows an example of runlength coding for sparse
data. The encoded datastream by applying run-length coding is also shown in
Figure 3.4b. Assuming the size of each element is equal, run-length coding leads
to a compression ratio of 1.875 (=15/8). As there are many zero values in a row
in the datastream, we can obtain a good compression ratio making the run-length
coding attractive to the sparse data compression.
Since the CNN weights are often represented in the form of matrices or tensors, a
bitmap-based lossless compression approach is another widely used approach for
sparse matrix or tensor compression. An example of bitmap-based lossless com-
pression is shown in Figure 3.5. During the compression, the bitmap-based com-
pression also generates the metadata. The required metadata is a bitmap; each bit
in the bitmap corresponds to each weight element. Each bit in the bitmap indicates
whether or not the corresponding weight element is zero. For storing the elements,
only nonzero elements are stored. When decompressing the compressed data, the
nonzero elements are restored in order in the locations where the bits in the bitmap
are “1” while the zero value is restored in the locations where the bits in the bitmap
are “0.” In addition, for sparse weight matrix compression, a coordinate-based
(COO) approach [100, 101] can also be used. Similar to the bitmap-based approach,
only the nonzero elements are stored, while the coordinate information of the
corresponding weight elements are also stored. Majority of the CNN weight com-
pression approaches exploit the characteristics of the data structure in the matrix
or tensor to efficiently and losslessly compress the sparse matrix or tensor.
1
4
7
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
1
4
0
5
0
0
0
9
0
0
0
8
1
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
1
4
7
2
1
4
5
9
8
Bitmap
Elements
Original matrix
Figure 3.5
An example of bitmap-based coding for sparse matrices.

--- Strana 66 ---
48
3 Contemporary Advances in Compressive Coding for CNNs
a
b
c
d
e
f
CSR format
Dense format
0
1
2
3
4
0
1
2
3
4
Row
index
Column
index
Non–zero value (NV)
Column index (CI)
a
b
c
d
e
f
2
4
3
4
0
1
1
0
2
3
6
6
Row pointer (RP)
0
1
2
3
4
5
0
1
2
3
4
5
0
1
2
3
4
5
NV
array
index
CI
array
index
RP
array
index
Figure 3.6
A conversion between the dense and compressed sparse row format. The
coordinate (x, y) indicates a location of the element in the row index x and column index
y with the dense format matrix. In the CSR format, an array index indicates a location in
the NV, CI, or RP array. For CSR format, we follow a general C-style representation for
indicating a certain array element. For example, NV[2] and CI[2] are equal to “c” and “1,”
respectively. Source: [102] Lee et al., 2022/arXiv/Public Domain CC BY 4.0.
The most well-known approach for compressing the sparse matrix is com-
pressed sparse row (CSR) format. As shown in Figure 3.6, the CSR format
stores three components: values of nonzero elements, column index (CI) of each
nonzero element, and row pointers. The CSR format removes the zero-valued
elements when storing the matrix while only maintaining the nonzero elements
and their location information. The first part, nonzero value (NV), in the CSR
format, contains the nonzero value itself. The second part, CI, contains the index
of the column location of the corresponding nonzero elements. Since NVs and CIs
are maintained in a pairwise manner, the same index value for nonzero element
array and CI array can be used for ease of the data structure management. Thus,
NV[i] and CI[i] work as a pair (i is a certain index) incorporating the information
on a single element in the matrix.
The third part, row pointer (RP), maintains how many nonzero elements exist
from the first row to the current row (i.e., cumulative number). For example, RP[x]
contains how many nonzero elements exist from the row with index 0 to the row
with index x −1 (thus, RP[0] is always 0).
3.5
Recent Advancements in Compressive Coding
for CNNs
This section presents recent representative advancements in compressive coding
for weight size reduction. In [94], Han et al. have proposed a network pruning
technique that removes weak (i.e., a weight value is less than a certain threshold)
synapse connections. To improve the accuracy, it re-trains a model with the pruned
weights. After pruning, the number of parameters is reduced by 9× and 13× in

--- Strana 67 ---
3.5 Recent Advancements in Compressive Coding for CNNs
49
AlexNet and VGG-16, respectively, with a negligible accuracy loss. In [46], Han
et al. have also proposed a weight compression technique with Huffman coding.
They have presented a quantization method which reduces the size of the weight
elements with a small accuracy loss. They observed that the accuracy of deep neu-
ral networks (DNNs) does not significantly decreases until 4-bit precision (2.0%
and 2.6% accuracy drop in top-1 and top-5 accuracies, respectively). When com-
bining the quantization with weight pruning and data compression by Huffman
coding, storage reduction of 35× to 49× has been reported. Similarly, in [97], Choi
et al. have proposed a weight size reduction technique that exploits quantization
and Huffman coding. They proposed an entropy-constrained quantization method
which minimizes accuracy losses under a given compression ratio. In addition,
with Huffman coding, it achieves over 40× compression ratio with less than 1%
accuracy losses.
In [103], Ko et al. have proposed a JPEG-based weight compression technique.
In order to minimize accuracy losses from the JPEG encoding, the proposed
technique adaptively controls a quality factor according to error sensitivity. The
proposed technique achieves a 42× compression ratio for multilayer perceptron
(MLP)-based network with an accuracy loss of 1%. In [104], Ge et al. have
proposed a framework that reduces weight data size by using approximation,
quantization, pruning, and coding. For the coding method, the framework
encodes only non-zero weights with their positional information. It is reported
that the framework proposed in [104] shows a compression ratio of 21.9× and
22.4× for AlexNet and VGG-16, respectively. In [105], Reagan et al. have proposed
a lossy weight compression technique that exploits Bloomier filter and arithmetic
coding. Due to the probabilistic nature of Bloomier filter, it also re-trains weights
based on lossy compressed weights. The technique by Reagan et al. shows a
compression ratio of 496× in the first fully connected layer of LeNet5. However,
the technique also shows an accuracy loss of 4.4% in VGG-16 top-1 accuracy. In
[106], Choi et al. have proposed a universal DNN weight compression framework
with lattice quantization and lossless coding such as bzip2. By leveraging the
dithering which adds a randomness to the sources (i.e., weights), the framework
proposed in [106] can be universally employed without the knowledge on the
probability distribution of the source values. This implies that the compression
ratio is not likely to severely vary depending on the source distribution. This
also means that the compression method proposed in [106] does not require
preprocessing to examine the statistical distribution of DNN weights. In practice,
it would result in an easy deployment of the weight compression technique under
frequently fluctuating source distribution (e.g., frequent weight updates through
model training). In [107], Young et al. have proposed a transformation-based
quantization method. By applying the transformation before the quantization,

--- Strana 68 ---
50
3 Contemporary Advances in Compressive Coding for CNNs
the proposed method achieves a significantly low bit rate around 1–2 bits per
weight element.
3.6
Chapter Summary
This chapter provided an overview of the compressive coding methods and
classified them into two categories: lossy and lossless compression. For lossy
compression, the chapter introduced quantization and pruning, which is widely
used techniques for CNNs. For lossless compression, the chapter discussed
entropy-based coding and some other coding methods that can be employed for
sparse matrices or tensors. The chapter also reviewed recent compressive coding
methods for CNNs. In Chapters 4 and 5, this book discusses several compressive
coding techniques recently proposed for CNNs. In Chapter 4, this book presents a
lossless compression technique for CNN input feature maps [108]. In Chapter 5,
this book discusses an arithmetic coding method for compression of 5-bit CNN
weights [99].

--- Strana 69 ---
51
4
Lossless Input Feature Map Compression
Although convolutional neural network (CNN) model parameter sizes are contin-
uously being reduced via model compression and quantization, the CNN hardware
acceleration still entails huge data transfer between the hardware accelerator and
memory via direct memory access (DMA). This data transfer overhead aggrandizes
latency, memory bandwidth pressure, and energy consumption, which limits the
feasibility of many contemporary CNN accelerators for resource-constrained sys-
tems such as embedded and Internet of things (IoT) devices. Even though many
hardware accelerators attempt to reuse data to minimize off-chip data transfer, the
limited on-chip memory of CNN hardware accelerators results in large amounts
of data transfer between hardware accelerators and main memory.
The data transfer overhead in CNNs can be classified into two types: latency
overhead and energy overhead. The latency overhead could be hidden by dou-
ble buffering. However, double buffering requires twice more on-chip memory
capacity to support the same processing element (PE) utilizations, thus inhibit-
ing its suitability for resource-constrained systems. Furthermore, in case of huge
amounts of data transfer between the accelerator and main memory, data trans-
fer latency cannot be hidden completely by overlapping computations with data
transfer. Moreover, overlapping computations with data transfer do not hide the
energy overhead of data transfer. The only way to minimize data transfer energy
is to reuse on-chip data as much as possible. However, a limited size of on-chip
memory in CNN hardware accelerators restricts the amount of the data reuse thus
resulting in nonnegligible energy overhead. Though processing-in-memory (PIM)
has been emerged to minimize data transfer, PIM would be hard to be adopted
in resource-constrained systems. Hence, it is imperative to consider both com-
putational performance and data transfer between main memory and the CNN
accelerator when designing CNN hardware accelerator for resource-constrained
systems.
Accelerators for Convolutional Neural Networks, First Edition.
Arslan Munir, Joonho Kong, and Mahmood Azhar Qureshi.
© 2024 The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Published 2024 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

--- Strana 70 ---
52
4 Lossless Input Feature Map Compression
To this end, this chapter introduces a novel input feature map (IFM) compres-
sion method [108]. To reduce data transfer overhead between the hardware accel-
erator and main memory, it is proposed to use an efficient compression method for
IFM data. The introduced scheme exploits the activation sparsity in CNN models,
which are attributed to rectified linear unit (ReLU) activation function. The pre-
sented IFM data compression method, which is performed on the software side,
removes the transfer of zero-valued elements in IFMs. In the following sections,
this chapter introduces the IFM compression method in detail.
4.1
Two-Step Input Feature Map Compression
Technique
Since there is a huge sparsity in CNN feature maps, the presented technique only
maintains nonzero values (elements) with metadata for a location, while zero val-
ues are omitted in the IFM. In order to record the location of nonzero elements
(NZEs) in IFMs, the presented technique also maintains indices of the NZEs in
IFMs. Figure 4.1 shows a format of compressed IFM data. The presented compres-
sion algorithm maintains three entities: nonzero elements (32-bit floating-point for
each element1), indices (8-bit for each element), and count_table (one element for
each chunk2). The first part, that is NZE part, stores all NZEs in the IFMs. The
second part, indices, indicates the location of NZEs in a chunk of IFM. The third
part, count_table, indicates the accumulated number of NZEs from the first chunk
to the current one.
The presented compression algorithm works as follows: Firstly, the 3D tensor
IFM is converted into the 1D vector format which is also divided into a granularity
of the chunk (256-elements per chunk in this work). It then linearly searches for
the NZE from the first chunk. If it finds the NZE in the chunk, it updates the indices
by storing the location of the NZE in the chunk (i.e., IFM 1D vector index % 256).
It also increases the number of the NZEs of the current chunk in the count_table.
Also, it stores the element itself to NZE. After it finishes the NZE search in a
chunk, it starts to search for the NZEs in the next chunk and updates the cumu-
lative number of the NZE in the next count_table entry. For example, as shown
in Figure 4.1, since there are three NZEs in the first chunk (IFM[0]–IFM[255]), it
records 3 in the count_table[0]. In the next chunk, it found another three NZEs,
and thus records 6 (cumulative number) in the count_table[1]. Similarly, it records
8 in the count_table[2] corresponding to the third chunk as it found two NZEs in
1 For explanation of the presented technique, 32-bit floating-point precision for IFM elements is
used. However, the presented technique can also be applied to the cases of using 16-bit
fixed-point and 8-bit integer elements by applying quantization.
2 Although in this work, it is assumed that 256 elements correspond to one chunk, the chunk
size depends on the design and can be extended.

--- Strana 71 ---
4.1 Two-Step Input Feature Map Compression Technique
53
0
1
130
6
7
255
1
255
...
IFM [0]
IFM [1]
IFM [130] IFM [262] IFM [263] IFM [511] IFM [513] IFM [767]
...
Nonzero
elements 
Indices
3
8
6
...
Count_table
0 + 3
3 + 3
6 + 2
IFM
[0]
IFM
[1]
IFM
[2]
…
IFM
[130]
…
IFM
[262]
IFM
[263]
…
IFM
[511]
IFM
[512]
IFM
[513]
…
IFM
[767]
IFM
[768]
…
IFM
width
Input
channel
IFM
height 
Converting 3d-tensor to 1d-vector
i.e., if we convert (x, y) element in the input channel z,  
we convert it into
IFM[x + y * IFM width + z * IFM width * IFM height]  
One chunk = 256 elements
IFM 1d-vector index % 256
Count the cumulative number of
the nonzero element from the
first chunk to the current one
Figure 4.1
The two-step data compression technique.
the third chunk. Following the same procedure, it searches for the NZEs in all the
chunks till it encounters the last element in IFM.
Table 4.1 illustrates a comparison among the presented two-step compression,
conventional one-step compression which maintains NZEs and the corresponding
indices (locations), and well-known compressed sparse row (CSR) compression. In
Table 4.1, N𝜙denotes the number of NZEs and Nc denotes the number of chunks.
Table 4.1 indicates that for the presented two-step compression scheme, 4B (i.e.,
32-bits) are required for storing an NZE, 1B is required for storing the index of an
NZE in a chunk (since it performs index % 256), and 2B are required to store the
cumulative number of NZEs in a chunk. Table 4.1 also indicates that for the con-
ventional one-step compression schemes, 4B are required for storing an NZE and
2B are required for storing the index of NZEs. The presented two-step compression
scheme leads to a better compression ratio than the conventional one under the
condition of N𝜙> 2 × Nc. Since the maximum allowable number of chunks (Nc)
is 256 assuming that the maximum number of elements in the IFM is 216, the pre-
sented two-step compression scheme leads to a better compression ratio as long
as the sparsity of the IFMs is lower than 99.2% ((65,536 −512)∕65,536 = 99.2%),
which is a common case.3
The comparison between the introduced compression scheme and the CSR com-
pression scheme is also presented. Please note that we also assume the 256 × 256
matrix format where 216 elements (at maximum) can exist since the CSR scheme
3 Since the presented technique is geared toward resource-constrained systems, it is assumed
that the maximum number of elements in the IFM is 216 (256 KB when using 4B floating-point
format for an element).

--- Strana 72 ---
54
4 Lossless Input Feature Map Compression
Table 4.1
Compressed data size comparison between conventional one-step
compression, compressed sparse row (CSR)-based compression, and the presented
two-step compression assuming the maximum number of elements in the IFM is 216.
Compression scheme
Data stored
Memory required
Conventional one-step
compression
Data element + indices
N𝜙× 4B + N𝜙× 2B
Conventional CSR
compression
Data element + column
indices + row pointers
N𝜙× 4B + N𝜙× 1B + 256 × 2B
Presented two-step
compression
Data element + indices +
Count_table
N𝜙× 4B + N𝜙× 1B + Nc × 2B
N𝜙and Nc denote the number of nonzero elements and chunks, respectively.
can only be used to compress 2D matrix format. The CSR format requires a column
index for each NZE and row pointers to maintain (in a cumulative manner) how
many NZEs exist in each row. Thus, N𝜙× 1B (8-bits) for column indices is required
because of representing 0-255 column indices. For the row pointers, the worst-case
requirements are considered because the data size for row pointers depends on the
sparsity and data distribution pattern in the matrix. Since the row pointer should
record the cumulative number of NZEs until the corresponding row (i.e., from
the first row to the corresponding row), the maximum value of the row pointer is
216, meaning that 16-bits (2B) are required for each row pointer value (technically,
though 17-bits are needed for the case where all the elements in the matrix are
nonzero value, this case is excluded because it is a very rare case and not desirable
to apply CSR compression). In addition, the number of required row pointer ele-
ments is the same as the number of rows in the matrix. Thus, 256 (28) row pointer
values are required. Hence, for the CSR format, N𝜙× 4B + N𝜙× 1B + 28 × 2B are
required. As explained, since the maximum allowable number of chunks (Nc) of
our presented compression technique is 256 assuming that the maximum num-
ber of elements in the IFM is 216, the two-step compression technique shows a
compression ratio comparable to the CSR format.
On the other hand, the CSR format can only be applied to a 2D sparse matrix
because it can only contain the column indices and row pointers which are
two-dimensional positional metadata. On the contrary, the presented two-step
compression technique can also be employed to compress the 3D tensors because
of flattening the sparse tensor to 1D vector before data compression. If one would
like to use the CSR compression for a tensor (i.e., input feature maps) compres-
sion, one can separately compress each 2D IFM and combine the compressed data
of each IFM. However, when performing the compression with a large number
of input channels, it may seriously increase the metadata (column indices and

--- Strana 73 ---
4.2 Evaluation
55
row pointers) size because the metadata size will be proportional to the number
of input channels. In addition, depending on the IFM size (height and width)
and the number of input channels, the metadata size will vary. It may hugely
increase accelerator hardware complexity due to variable input dimensions. On
the contrary, since our compression technique converts the 3D IFM tensor into
1D vector format, our hardware accelerator (will be explained in Chapter 10)
operations are not affected by the tensor dimension, relieving the hardware design
complexity. Even though some other compression techniques may be a little better
in terms of the compression ratio, they can increase hardware complexity for
decompression and convolution, deteriorating the overall performance.
In the presented compression technique, the zero values are removed to reduce
the required storage size. At the same time, the nonzero values still remain in the
compressed data with their location information within the tensor. Although
the zero values are removed in the compressed data, it is not actually removed
from the tensor. In other words, if one restores (i.e., decompress) the compressed
data to the original data, one can completely restore the tensor same as before
compression (i.e., without any data loss). This is because the compressed data
only contains the information on nonzero values (i.e., values and locations),
whereas all the remaining spots of the tensor can be filled with zero values,
meaning that the presented compression technique is lossless compression.
4.2
Evaluation
By applying the presented compression technique, one can obtain a huge amount
of transferred data and transfer latency. Figure 4.2 shows the comparison of
compressed IFM size normalized to the noncompressed IFM size. The presented
technique reduces the IFM data size by 34.0–85.2% across the degree of the
IFM sparsity from 50% to 90%. As illustrated in Figure 4.2, there are remarkable
differences in compressed data size depending on the degree of sparsity in IFM.
The reduced IFM data size can also contribute to the reduction of latency, memory
bandwidth pressure, and energy. As shown in Figure 4.3, the presented technique
reduces the DMA transfer latency by 41.6%, on average as compared to the case of
transferring noncompressed IFMs. These results imply that one can significantly
reduce the data transfer latency caused by the large batch of the inputs depending
on the input data sparsity. In case of the input sparsity of 50%, one can only
obtain the data transfer latency reduction by 4.4% with the presented technique.
This is because additional latency for compression is required when applying the
presented technique. Although the presented compression technique provides
only a small data transfer latency benefit for 50% input sparsity, the data transfer
latency improvements imparted by the presented compression technique increase

--- Strana 74 ---
56
4 Lossless Input Feature Map Compression
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
Normalized IFM data size
Sparsity 50%
Sparsity 60%
Sparsity 70%
Sparsity 80%
Sparsity 90%
Layer 15
Layer 17
Layer 26
Layer 28
Layer 41
Layer 43
Figure 4.2
Normalized compressed data size (including metadata) comparison of the
presented acceleration technique across various CONV layers.
Sparsity 90%
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
Layer 15
Layer 17
Layer 26
Layer 28
Layer 41
Layer 43
Normalized data transfer latency
Sparsity 50%
Sparsity 60%
Sparsity 70%
Sparsity 80%
Figure 4.3
Normalized data transfer latency comparison of the presented acceleration
technique across various CONV layers.
as the degree of IFM sparsity increases. For input sparsity of 90%, results indicate
that one can obtain data transfer latency reductions by 75.7%, on average, with
the presented technique.
Though the DMA transfer time may be hidden by double buffering, the reduced
data transfer latency can also reduce the required memory bandwidth which
is very crucial for low-power resource-constrained edge systems. Moreover,
as observed in [109], since power and energy consumption from the dynamic
random access memory (DRAM) interface is significant in embedded platforms,

--- Strana 75 ---
4.3 Chapter Summary
57
the data transfer reduction by the presented technique can hugely contribute
to energy efficiency of the system. Apart from the data transfer latency, since
the presented technique compresses the IFMs, the decoding latency should also
be taken into account when performing convolution (CONV) layer operations.
However, the hardware accelerator, which is introduced in Chapter 10 performs
the decoding of the compressed IFMs in an in-situ manner. Thus, the decoding
latency is inherently included in the latency of the hardware accelerator and
therefore the decoding latency in CONV operations is not separately reported.
4.3
Chapter Summary
Sparsity in CNNs provide a huge opportunity for optimizing CNN accelerators and
reducing data size. This chapter discussed a lossless compression scheme for com-
pressing IFM data resulting in data transfer reduction between the memory and
the accelerator. The compression technique presented in this chapter reduced the
data size and latency for IFM data transfer by 34.0–85.2% and 4.4–75.7%, respec-
tively, as compared to the case without the data compression.

--- Strana 76 ---

--- Strana 77 ---
59
5
Arithmetic Coding and Decoding for 5-Bit CNN Weights
To mitigate a large parameter size in convolutional neural networks (CNNs),
several well-known techniques such as weight pruning and quantization have
been introduced. The weight pruning increases the sparsity of the weight data
by replacing the near-zero weight elements with zero-valued elements. The
quantization reduces weight elements’ size with a negligible loss of the CNN
accuracy. For example, while the conventional precision of the elements in CNNs
is single-precision floating-point (32-bit), 8-bit integer and 16-bit fixed-point pre-
cisions are also widely used for cost-efficient CNN inferences, which can reduce
the weight size by 4× and 2×, respectively. Even further, as a more aggressive
solution, several works have proposed to use 5-bit weight elements for deploying
the CNN models in resource-constrained systems [37, 95]. Though, these works
have shown successful results on reducing the weight data size, one could further
reduce the weight size by applying the data encoding schemes such as Huffman
coding or arithmetic coding. By only storing the encoded (hence, the reduced
size of) weight data in device’s memory and/or storage, one could enable more
cost-efficient deployment of the CNN models in resource-constrained devices.
This chapter introduces an arithmetic coding-based 5-bit quantized weight
compression technique for on-device CNN inferences in resource-constrained
edge devices. Once the weight elements are quantized to a 5-bit format (quanti-
zation can be done by other methods such as [95]), it leverages arithmetic coding
for weight compression, which has been generally employed for entropy-based
data compression (e.g., for image compression in [110] and [111]). In addition,
a range scaling for lossless compression is employed, meaning that there is no
accuracy loss in CNN inferences as compared to the case of using uncompressed
5-bit weight element. Compared to Huffman coding-based compression, which
is commonly used, the arithmetic coding-based technique leads to a better
compression ratio (CR), resulting in less memory and storage requirements for
weights. In addition, when applying this technique to the pruned weights, one
can obtain much higher compression ratio as compared to Huffman coding-based
Accelerators for Convolutional Neural Networks, First Edition.
Arslan Munir, Joonho Kong, and Mahmood Azhar Qureshi.
© 2024 The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Published 2024 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

--- Strana 78 ---
60
5 Arithmetic Coding and Decoding for 5-Bit CNN Weights
weight compression. For an in situ weight decompression for edge devices which
contain a CNN accelerator or NPU, a hardware decoder which can decompress
the compressed weight with a small latency overhead will also be introduced.
The contributions of the introduced compression technique are summarized as
follows:
●A lossless arithmetic coding-based 5-bit quantized weight compression tech-
nique is introduced;
●A hardware-based decoder for in situ decompression of the compressed weights
in the NPU or CNN accelerator is introduced, and the hardware-based decoder
is implemented in field-programmable gate array (FPGA) as a proof-of-concept;
●The introduced technique for 5-bit quantized weights reduces the weight size
by 9.6× (by up to 112.2× in the case of pruned weights) as compared to the case
of using the uncompressed 32-bit floating-point (FP32) weights;
●The introduced technique for 5-bit quantized weights also reduces memory
energy consumption by 89.2% (by up to 99.1% for pruned weights) as compared
to the case of using the uncompressed FP32 weight;
●When combining the compression technique and hardware decoder (16 decod-
ing units) with various state-of-the-art CNN accelerators [112–114], the intro-
duced technique incurs a small latency overhead by 0.16–5.48% (0.16–0.91% for
pruned weights) as compared to the case without the introduced technique and
hardware decoder.
●When combining the introduced technique with various state-of-the-art CNN
accelerators [112, 113], the introduced technique with 4 decoding unit (DU)
decoder hardware reduces system-level energy consumption by 1.1–9.3% as
compared to the case without using the introduced technique.
5.1
Architecture and Design Overview
For a real-world deployment of the weight compression technique, we introduce
a system overview and execution flow to support fast and cost-efficient weight
encoding/decoding. The overall architecture and execution flow of the introduced
technique are illustrated in Figure 5.1. First, the weight quantization and encod-
ing (upper part of Figure 5.1) are performed offline. In the cloud (or datacenter),
the trained 32-bit FP weight elements1 can be quantized to 5-bit format (and can
also be pruned), and compressed by using the presented arithmetic coding-based
compression technique, and sent to resource-constrained edge devices for CNN
inference. The compressed weight data are stored in the memory or storage of the
1 Instead of FP32, the presented compression technique can also be applied to fixed-point
(e.g., 16-bit) weight values as long as they can be quantized to 5-bit weight format.

--- Strana 79 ---
5.1 Architecture and Design Overview
61
Off-chip memory or storage
CPU
Memory
controller
Interconnect
CNN
accelerator
logic
Decoding
hardware 
Input
Compressed 
weight
PLM
Weight
Encoding
…
W[0]
W[K-1]
W[1]
5-bit quantized (and pruned)
weight elements 
Compressed weight
(bitstream)
Decoding
unit 
Decoding
unit 
Figure 5.1
Architecture and execution ﬂow of the presented technique.
edge devices and will be accessed when running the CNN inference. We assume
there is a CNN accelerator (or NPU) in the edge device because recent edge devices
are widely adopting CNN accelerators (e.g., edge tensor processing unit in Google
Coral platform [115]). Please note that the 5-bit quantization can be performed
with any already proposed technique (e.g., [46], [116], and [38]), and thus the pro-
posal of a 5-bit quantization method is outside the scope of this chapter. A clear
description of the contributions and execution flow is depicted in Figure 5.2.
In case of CNN inference in the baseline system (i.e., without the presented
technique), the weight data will be directly loaded into CNN accelerator’s private
local memory (PLM). In this case, non compressed 5-bit weight data are fully
5-bit
quantization 
32-bit FP weights
5-bit quantized
weights 
Compressed
bitstream 
Our encoding
method 
Our decoding
method (HW)
CNN
inference 
Performed
offline 
Performed at
runtime 
FP: Floating-point
HW: Hardware
Figure 5.2
A quantization, encoding, and decoding ﬂow for CNN inference in the
presented technique. The gray-shaded part denotes the main contributions of the
presented technique.

--- Strana 80 ---
.
.
.
0
1
.
.
.
(a)
“A”
“B”
“C”
“D”
.
.
.
“A”
“B”
“C”
“D”
0
255
if (range < 1-bit)
Underflow
“A”
“B”
“C”
“D”
0
255
0
255
0
255
0
255
0
255
0
255
0
255
.
.
.
“A”
“B”
“C”
“D”
0
255
0
255
0
255
0
255
(1011010011100..)2
Find which sub-range
the unsigned binary 
integer belongs to
(0011010011100..)2
(0000010011100..)2
(0000010011100..)2
Encoded bitstream
Z = 180
Z = 211
Z = 78
Z = 156
(b)
(c)
(d)
Figure 5.3
An overview of theoretical arithmetic coding (a), binary arithmetic coding without range scaling (b), and the presented binary
arithmetic coding with range scaling (c), and decoding algorithm (d). For illustrative purpose, we assume that the unsigned integer binary is
8-bit size (thus, mapping space is 0–255). In this example, we encode or decode a sequence of symbols (weight elements) “A”, “B”, “C”, and
“D”. In (d), the numbers speciﬁed for the bitstream and Z values are merely exemplary values.

--- Strana 81 ---
5.2 Algorithm Overview
63
or partially loaded into CNN accelerator’s PLM. However, with the presented
technique, before we send the weight data to the CNN accelerator, we need a
fast in situ decompression (i.e., decoding) of the compressed weight data, which
necessitate a hardware decoder. The hardware decoder receives the bitstream
(BS) of the compressed weight and generates the original 5-bit quantized weight
data. In the hardware decoder, there are multiple DUs to expedite the runtime
decoding process. Please note that the presented decoding hardware does not have
any dependency to the CNN accelerator that can perform convolution operations
with 5-bit quantized weight.
5.2
Algorithm Overview
In this section, we describe an overview of the algorithm. Figure 5.3 summarizes
the comparison between the theoretical arithmetic coding-based encoding (a),
binary arithmetic coding-based encoding without range scaling (b), and the
presented binary arithmetic coding-based encoding with range scaling (c), and
decoding (d). As shown in Figure 5.3a, arithmetic coding encodes the original
data into a certain real number between 0 and 1 ([0, 1)). Theoretically, the
arithmetic coding can compress any raw data (i.e., a sequence of the symbols) to
one real number since we can have an infinite number of real numbers between
0 and 1. In general, however, when we encode certain data to a bitstream, the
encoded data should be mapped to a finite binary number space, which can
cause underflow. In this case, the encoded data may be lossy because different
binary data can be mapped to the same encoded binary due to the limited space
for data encoding. As shown in Figure 5.3b, if we have a long sequence of the
weight elements and we do not have a sufficiently large binary mapping space,
the underflow can occur. This is because the feasible mapping space will become
smaller and smaller as more weight elements are encoded.
In the presented technique, we also map the weight elements into the unsigned
integer-based binary mapping space. Since the presented compression (i.e., encod-
ing) technique aims to generate losslessly encoded data, we also employ a range
scaling method that can adaptively scale the range of the binary mapping space.
In the case of encoding (Figure 5.3c), depending on the mapped subrange for a
certain element, we adaptively scale this subrange according to the range scal-
ing condition (we explain the details on the scaling condition in the next Section
5.2.1, Section 5.3, and Section 5.4). In this case, we record the scaling information
as well as the information on the mapped and scaled subrange to the compressed
bitstream. In the case of decoding (Figure 5.3d), by referring to a sliding window
(gray shaded area in Figure 5.3d) within a bitstream, we find which subrange the
unsigned integer (the number Z converted from the binary in the sliding window)

--- Strana 82 ---
64
5 Arithmetic Coding and Decoding for 5-Bit CNN Weights
belongs to. By referring to the found subrange, we decode a weight element to
which the subrange corresponds. By shifting the sliding window,2 we decode the
next weight element in the similar way we describe above.
5.2.1
Weight Encoding Algorithm
In this section, we explain how we compress (i.e., encode) the 5-bit quantized
weight data in details. Figure 5.4 shows a pseudocode of the presented arithmetic
coding-based weight encoding with range scaling. For input, 5-bit quantized
weight data (W), the occurrence probabilities for each weight value (PROB), and
the number of weight elements (K) (i.e., the number of parameters) are required.
To obtain PROB, we can calculate the probability based on how many times each
weight appears in the weight data. The output is an encoded weight bitstream
(BS). Prior to encoding, we need to set variables: N means the number of bits
for mapping the weight data to an unsigned binary with arithmetic coding. RS
contains range scaling information, which is initially set to 0. The MAX, HALF,
and QTR are calculated according to the N. For initialization, low and high
are first set to 0 and MAX, respectively. We also need to collect the cumulative
probabilities for each weight value3 (F[X] = PROB[x < X] where 0 ≤X ≤32).
The encoding procedure is performed by per weight element basis. For each
weight element (from 0 to K −1), we set the high and low values to a range for
mapping a certain weight element to an unsigned integer binary number space
(lines 2–4 in Figure 5.4). We call this range ([low, high]) as subrange. When map-
ping the elements in the subrange with range scaling, there can be three cases
of the range scaling: (a) upper scaling, (b) lower scaling, and (c) middle scaling.
These three cases of the range scaling are also shown in Figure 5.5. Lines 5–7 and
11 in Figure 5.4 correspond to the case (a) in Figure 5.5: upper scaling. In this case,
we write 12 followed by RS-bits of 02s in the bitstream (for example, if RS = 3, we
write (1000)2 to BS), reset RS to 0, and update low and high values by following
the upper scaling rule for further range scaling. The reason why we write 12 in the
upper scaling case is that the subrange is in the upper half of the binary mapping
space, meaning that the most-significant bit (MSB) of the mapped unsigned inte-
ger binary value will be 12. RS-bits of 02s incorporate the information on how many
middle scaling has been done before. Performing more middle scalings implies
that the original subrange (i.e., before performing the upper and middle scalings)
was closer to the center point of the range (Figure 5.6a). This is why we write more
number of 02s as we perform more middle scalings in the previous loop iteration.
2 To decode one weight element, the sliding window can be shifted by more than 1-bit
depending on the range scaling condition.
3 Though the actual weights are interpreted by 5-bit log-based or linear-based values, here we
represent 5-bit binary as an unsigned integer (0–31) for an ease of explanation.

--- Strana 83 ---
5.2 Algorithm Overview
65
Pseudocode for Encoding (Compression)
INPUT:
W – 5-bit quantized weight elements
PROB – Probability of each weight value occurrence in W
K – # of weight elements
OUTPUT: BS – Encoded weight bitstream
N = # of bits for mapping the weight data to an unsigned integer number
RS = 0
MAX = 2N−1, HALF = round(MAX/2), QTR = round(MAX/4)
low = 0, high = MAX
F[X] = PROB[x < X] (X=0 to 32, F[0]=0, F[1]=PROB[0], ... F[32]=1)
1 for i=0 to K −1
2
range = high −low
3
high = low + floor(range * F[W[i]+1])
4
low = low + floor(range * F[W[i]])
5
while high < HALF or low >= HALF
6
if low >= HALF
7
write 12 and RS-bits of 02s to BS, RS=0, low=low-HALF, high=high-HALF
8
else
9
write 02 and RS-bits of 12s to BS, RS=0
10
end if
11
low=low << 1, high=high << 1
12
end while
13
while low >= QTR and high < 3*QTR
14
RS++, low = (low−QTR) << 1, high = (high−QTR) << 1
15
end while
16 end for
17 RS++
18 if low <= QTR
19
write 02 and RS-bits of 12s to BS
20 else
21
write 12 and RS-bits of 02s to BS
22 end if
Figure 5.4
Pseudocode of the weight encoding technique.
In case (b) in Figure 5.5 (lower scaling: lines 5 and 8–11 in Figure 5.4), we write 02
(MSB of the mapped unsigned integer binary value will be 02) followed by RS-bits
of 12s in the bitstream, reset RS to 0, and update low and high values by follow-
ing the lower scaling rule for further range scaling. As depicted in Figure 5.6b, the
reason why we write 02 and RS-bits of 12s can be explained in a similar way of

--- Strana 84 ---
66
5 Arithmetic Coding and Decoding for 5-Bit CNN Weights
high
low
high’
low'
HALF
X
A
M
0
HALF
high
low
X
A
M
0
HALF
high’
low’
HALF
QTR
3*QTR
high
low
X
A
M
0
HALF
high
low
X
A
M
0
HALF
MAX
MAX
MAX
MAX
0
0
0
0
low’
high’
low’
high’
Scaling rule: low’ = 2 * (low – QTR), high’ = 2 * (high – QTR)
Scaling rule: low’ = 2 * low, high’ = 2 * high
(b) 
(c) 
high
low
X
A
M
0
HALF
high’
low’
HALF
MAX
0
high
low
X
A
M
0
HALF
high’
low’
HALF
MAX
0
high
low
X
A
M
0
HALF
high’
low’
HALF
high
low
0
MAX
HALF
high
low
0
MAX
HALF
MAX
MAX
MAX
0
0
0
low’
high’
low’
high’
Scaling rule: low’ = 2*(low – HALF), high’ = 2*(high – HALF)
(a) 
QTR
3*QTR
Figure 5.5
Three possible cases and scaling rules for range scaling. (a) Upper scaling,
(b) lower scaling, and (c) middle scaling.
the upper scaling case. In the case (c) in Figure 5.5 (middle scaling: lines 13–15
in Figure 5.4), we do not encode the element data and only scale the subrange by
following the middle scaling rule as long as the condition of the middle scaling
case (line 13 in Figure 5.4) is met while we also keep incrementing RS to track
how many times of middle scaling has been done. There can be a case where the
subrange does not belong to any of the three scaling cases. In this case, we do not
scale the subrange and we move onto the next iteration (i.e., next iterations of the
for loop or terminate the for loop in the case of the last loop iteration). This proce-
dure (lines 1–16 in Figure 5.4) is repeatedly performed until the entire W elements
are encoded to BS. After that, lines 17–22 in Figure 5.4 perform a bitstream writing
that corresponds to the last part of the weight data which have not been encoded
yet. In this part, we do not have a middle scaling case and only record the bits by
following either upper or lower scaling rule. Although the presented technique
maps weight elements to an N-bit unsigned integer binary number space with
arithmetic coding, the encoded bitstream also contains range scaling information
(RS) along with iteratively appended binary bits depending on the scaling condi-
tion (i.e., lower and upper scaling: Lines 6–9 in Figure 5.4). Thus, the encoded
bitstream is typically much longer than N-bits.

--- Strana 85 ---
5.3 Weight Decoding Algorithm
67
(000..)2 (001..)2 (010..)2 (011..)2
(100..)2 (101..)2 (110..)2 (111..)2
(b)
(000..)2 (001..)2 (010..)2 (011..)2 (100..)2
(101..)2 (110..)2 (111..)2
Middle scaling, RS = 1
Middle scaling, RS = 2
(a)
Write (011)2
Write (100)2
255
191
127
63
0
255
191
127
63
0
Middle scaling, RS = 1
Middle scaling, RS = 2
: Scaled range 
: New sub range
: Scaled range 
: New sub range
Figure 5.6
Range scalings in the case of middle scaling. (a) Middle scaling before upper
scaling and (b) middle scaling before lower scaling.
5.3
Weight Decoding Algorithm
An overall structure of the decoding (i.e., decompression) procedure is very simi-
lar to that of the encoding procedure. The decoding procedure exactly follows the
range calculation and scaling while we perform the weight element mapping with
a part of the bitstream, which is an inverse operation of the encoding procedure.
Figure 5.7 presents a pseudocode for the decoding. We need the encoded weight

--- Strana 86 ---
68
5 Arithmetic Coding and Decoding for 5-Bit CNN Weights
Pseudocode for Decoding (Decompression)
INPUT:
BS – Encoded weight bitstream
PROB – Probability of each weight value occurrence in W
K – # of original weight element
OUTPUT: W – Original 5-bit quantized weight elements
N = # of bits for mapping the weight data to an unsigned integer number
MAX = 2N−1, HALF = round(MAX/2), QTR = round(MAX/4)
low = 0, high = MAX, idx=0
F[X] = PROB[x < X] (X=0 to 32, F[0]=0, F[1]=PROB[0], ... F[32]=1)
Z(idx) = N−bits starting from bit index ‘idx’ in BS
1 Append N−1 ‘0’s at the end of BS
2 for i=0 to K−1
3
range=high−low
4
for j=0 to 31
5
high = low + floor(range * F[j+1])
6
low = low + floor(range * F[j])
7
if low <= Z(idx) and Z(idx) < high
8
store weight value j to W[i]
9
break
10
end if
11
end for
12
while high < HALF or low >= HALF
13
if low >= HALF
14
low = low −HALF, high = high −HALF, Z(idx) = Z(idx) −HALF
15
end if
16
low = low << 1, high = high << 1, idx++
17
end while
18
while low >= QTR and high < 3 * QTR
19
low = (low −QTR) << 1, high = (high −QTR) << 1
20
Z(idx) = Z(idx) −QTR, idx++
21
end while
22 end for
Figure 5.7
Pseudocode of the weight decoding technique.
bitstream (BS), the occurrence probabilities for each weight value (PROB), and the
number of original weight elements (K) as inputs while the output of the decod-
ing procedure is original 5-bit weight elements (W). We omit the explanation for
variable initialization because the variable setting is same as the encoding except
for Z(idx) which corresponds to the N-bits starting from the bit index idx in the BS

--- Strana 87 ---
5.4 Encoding and Decoding Examples
69
where N is the number of bits used for mapping the encoded data to an unsigned
binary number space, which is same as in the encoding. For example, if N = 8, the
Z(idx) will be the 8-bits starting from the bit index “idx,” which can also be rep-
resented by an unsigned integer number ranging from 0 to 255 (= 28 −1). Please
note that Z(idx) shifts from the starting point of the encoded bitstream in a sliding
window manner as we explained in Section 15.2.1.
The decoding procedure is performed until the encoded bitstream (BS) is
fully decoded into original 5-bit weight elements (W). We decode the bitstream
by a unit of N-bits (Z(idx)). Here, the bit index of the bitstream begins with 0
(idx = 0). Thus, the initial N-bit window will be Z(0). Before we perform the
iterations, we need to append the N −1 bits of 02s at the end of BS in order to
enable the decoding of the last N −1 bits in the BS (line 1 in Figure 5.7). As in
the encoding procedure, decoding is also performed by per weight element basis
(from 0 to K −1: line 2 in Figure 5.7). In lines 3–11, we calculate the subrange
([low, high]) for each weight value (i.e., from 0 to 31) and find which weight
value’s subrange contains Z(idx). If the subrange of weight value j contains Z(idx),
we write j to the decoded weight W[i]. Similar to the case of the encoding, we
then consider the three different range scaling cases: upper, lower, and middle
scaling. In the cases of upper and lower scaling (lines 13–16 in Figure 5.7), we
also scale the subrange ([low, high]) by following the corresponding scaling rule
as in Figure 5.5a,b, respectively, while also updating Z(idx). Please note that the
Z(idx) can be regarded as a pointer that indicates the N-bits in the BS with a
starting index of idx. Thus, updating the Z(idx) also means updating N-bits in
the BS starting at the bit-index idx, also affecting the following Z(idx + 1) value
which will be referenced next (i.e., referenced by shifting the sliding window). In
the middle scaling case (lines 18–21 in Figure 5.7), we scale the subrange as in
Figure 5.5c while also updating Z(idx). As in the encoding procedure, for three
scaling cases, the scaling procedure is repeatedly performed (in a while loop) as
long as the scaling condition is satisfied. Once K weight elements are all decoded,
the for loop (lines 2–22 in Figure 5.7) terminates, and the decoding process is
completed.
5.4
Encoding and Decoding Examples
Figure 5.8 shows an illustrative example of the presented arithmetic coding-based
weight encoding. For brevity, we limit the types of weight values (i.e., possible
weight element values) as “0,” “1,” and “2” (originally, possible weight element
values are 0–31: 32 different weight values) and assume that we encode the
sequence of the weight elements {0, 1, 0, 1, 2} (weight elements flattened to a

--- Strana 88 ---
70
5 Arithmetic Coding and Decoding for 5-Bit CNN Weights
i
Starting
range
W[i]
Subrange
Scaling case
BS
Updated
RS
0
[0, 255]
0
[0, 102]
Lower scaling
02
0
1
[0, 204]
1
[81, 163]
Middle scaling
02
1
2
[34, 198]
0
[34, 99]
Lower scaling
(001)2
0
3
[68, 198]
1
[120, 172]
Middle scaling
(001)2
1
4
[112, 216]
2
[195, 216]
Upper scaling
(00110)2
0
4
[134, 176]
—
—
Upper scaling
(001101)2
0
4
[12, 96]
—
—
Lower scaling
(0011010)2
0
Out of
the loop
[24, 192]
—
—
—
(001101001)2
1
Figure 5.8
An example for encoding by using the presented technique.
form of a 1d-vector.4) From the sequence, we can recognize that the F[x] values
for a range [0, 3] ({F[0], F[1], F[2], F[3]}) will be {0.0, 0.4, 0.8, 1.0}. In this
example, we assume that N = 8, meaning that MAX, HALF, and QTR are 255,
128, and 64, respectively.
At first, we encode the first weight element “0.” By calculating the sub-range
([low, high]) of the weight element “0,” a new subrange will be [0, 102]
(=[0 + ⌊255*0.0⌋, 0 + ⌊255*0.4⌋]) which corresponds to the case of lower scaling
(high < HALF). In this case, we write a bit 02 in the output bitstream (RS is
currently 0, thus we do not write 12). We then scale the lower bound and upper
bound of the subrange by 2× by following the lower scaling rule. A new scaled
range will be [0, 204] which does not account for any of the three scaling cases.
Thus, we move to the next iteration for encoding the second weight element
“1.” The next subrange will be [81, 163] (=[0 + ⌊204*0.4⌋, 0 + ⌊204*0.8⌋]), which
corresponds to the case of the middle scaling. In this case, we increment RS
by 1 and scale the range by following the middle scaling rule, which makes
the current range [34, 198] (=[(81 −64)*2, (163 −64)*2]). This range does not
correspond to the middle scaling case, which means that we need to encode the
following element. When we encode the third element “0,” a new subrange will be
[34 + ⌊164*0.0⌋, 34 + ⌊164*0.4⌋] = [34, 99], which is the lower scaling case. Thus,
we write (01)2 (because of RS = 1) to the bitstream and reset RS to 0 while we also
4 For a sequence of weight elements, we flatten the weight elements starting from the first
convolutional (CONV) layer to the last CONV layer of the CNNs.

--- Strana 89 ---
5.4 Encoding and Decoding Examples
71
scale the lower and upper bounds of the subrange by 2×, resulting in the range
of [68, 198] which does not correspond to any of the three cases. For the fourth
weight element “1,” a new subrange will be [68 + ⌊130*0.4⌋, 68 + ⌊130*0.8⌋] =
[120, 172], which corresponds to the middle scaling case. Thus, we incre-
ment the RS by 1 and scale the subrange by following the middle scaling rule
([(120 −64)*2, (172 −64)*2] = [112, 216]). The scaled range [112, 216] does not
correspond to any of the three cases, we perform the next iteration. For the next
weight element “2,” a new subrange will be [112+⌊104*0.8⌋, 112 + ⌊104*1.0⌋] =
[195, 216], which corresponds to the upper scaling case. Since the current RS
value is 1, we write (10)2 to the bitstream and reset RS to 0. After the upper scaling,
we obtain [(195 −128)*2, (216 −128)*2]=[134, 176] as a new scaled range, which
is still upper scaling case. Thus, we write 12 to the bitstream and scale the range by
following the upper scaling rule, which results in [(134 −128)*2, (176 −128)*2] =
[12, 96]. It accounts for the lower scaling case, resulting in writing 02 to the
BS. By following the lower scaling rule, we obtain a new scaled range of [12*2,
96*2]=[24, 192], which does not correspond to any of the three cases, terminating
the main loop (lines 1–16 in Figure 5.4). Since we have already encoded all the
weight elements, we need to process the last part of the encoding (lines 17–22
in Figure 5.4). After we increment RS by 1, we write (01)2 to the BS because the
lower bound of the current range (low) is 24 which is less than QTR (64). Finally,
we obtain the encoded bitstream of (001101001)2.
Figure 5.9 demonstrates an example of the weight decoding. Please note
that the N, MAX, HALF, and QTR values are equal to the encoding example.
Before starting the first iteration, we append 7-bits of 02s at the end of BS. In
this example, we will perform five iterations because K, the number of weight
elements encoded in the BS, is 5. We first start with the 8-bit part Z(0), (00110100)2
(=52) in the first iteration. When we calculate the subranges for each weight
element, Z(0) is within the subrange of “0” ([0 + ⌊255*0.0⌋, 0 + ⌊255*0.4⌋] =
[0, 102]). Thus, we write element “0” to the weight data W[0]. Since the subrange
[0, 102] corresponds to the lower scaling case, we scale the lower and upper
bounds of the subrange by 2× (thus, a new scaled range will be [0, 204]) while
increasing the idx by 1. Since the scaled range [0, 204] does not correspond to any
of the three scaling cases, we move to the next iteration. In the second iteration,
Z(1) is equal to (01101001)2 (=105), meaning that it corresponds to the subrange
of the element “1” (([0 + ⌊204*0.4⌋, 0 + ⌊204*0.8⌋] = [81, 163])) which will be
written to the W[1]. A new subrange will be [81, 163] (subrange of j = 1), which
corresponds to the middle scaling case. After scaling the range ([(81 −64)*2,
(163 −64)*2] = [34, 198]) and updating Z(1) (105 −64(QTR)=41((00101001)2)),
the new scaled range does not correspond to any of the three cases. Thus, we
perform the next iteration with Z(2) ((01010010)2 = 82). Similarly, after calcu-
lating the new subrange for each weight element, Z(2) is within the subrange

--- Strana 90 ---
72
5 Arithmetic Coding and Decoding for 5-Bit CNN Weights
i
Starting
range
Sub-range
Z(idx)-gray-shaded
part
Output w
Scaling
case
Updated
idx
j = 0
j = 1
j = 2
0
[0, 255]
[0, 102]
—
—
(0011010010000000)2 {0}
Lower
1
52
scaling
1
[0, 204]
[0, 81]
[81, 163]
—
(0011010010000000)2 {0,1}
Middle
2
105
scaling
2
[34, 198]
[34, 99]
—
—
(0001010010000000)2 {0,1,0}
Lower
3
82
scaling
3
[68, 198]
[68, 120]
[120, 172] —
(0001010010000000)2 {0,1,0,1}
Middle
4
164
scaling
4
[112, 216] [112, 153] [153, 195] [195, 216] (0000110010000000)2 {0,1,0,1,2} —
—
200
Figure 5.9
An example for decoding by using the presented technique.
([34 + ⌊164*0.0⌋, 34 + ⌊164*0.4⌋]=[34, 99]) of the element “0,” which will be
written to the W[2], and we need to scale the subrange with the lower scaling
rule, resulting in the new scaled range [68, 198] (=[34*2, 99*2]). In the next
iteration, we have a starting range of [68, 198], while Z(3) is (10100100)2 (=164),
which exists within the subrange of the element “1” (164 is within the sub-range
[68 + ⌊130*0.4⌋, 68 + ⌊130*0.8⌋]=[120, 172]). Thus, we write element “1” to
the W[3], and perform the middle scaling with the subrange [120, 172] while
updating Z(3) to 100 (=164 −64(QTR)). After that, we have a new scaled range
[112, 216] (=[(120 −64)*2, (172 −64)*2]), which does not correspond to the mid-
dle scaling case. Thus, we move to the next iteration to seek for a subrange of Z(4),
(11001000)2 (=200). After calculating the subranges for each weight element,
Z(4) is within the subrange of “2” ([112 + ⌊104*0.8⌋, 112 + ⌊104*1.0⌋]=[195,
216]) which will be stored to the W[4]. Since we have already decoded five
weight elements, we finish the decoding procedure with the decoded weight
output W = {0, 1, 0, 1, 2}.
5.4.1
Decoding Hardware
Figure 5.10 shows a block diagram of the decoder hardware with a single DU.
There are two buffers, bitstream buffer (for BS) and decoded weight buffer
(for W), and one table (probability table for PROB). The bitstream buffer contains

--- Strana 91 ---
5.4 Encoding and Decoding Examples
73
Bitstream buffer
Probability table
Decoded weight buffer
Range calculation unit 0
Range calculation unit 1
Range calculation unit 2
Range calculation unit 31
Comparator
.  .  .
Range scaling 
unit
Control logic
Interconnect
CNN
accelerator
Figure 5.10
Decoding unit (DU) architecture.
the encoded weight bitstream which is delivered from the main memory (or
storage). The probability table maintains F[x] for each weight value (F[0] and
F[32] are always 0 and 1, respectively, meaning that they do not need to be stored
in the table). The decoded weight buffer will store the decoded weight elements.
From the bitstream buffer, we send the Z(idx) (where idx is the starting bit
index of the N-bits) to the range scaling unit which performs the range scaling
according to the three cases (upper, lower, and middle scaling). After that, the
scaled ranges from the range scaling unit and probability values (F[0] −F[32] in
Figure 5.7) are sent to the range calculation unit, which performs calculations
of a new sub-range for each weight value. In the presented design, we perform
32 subrange calculation (corresponds to the lines 4–6 in Figure 5.7) in parallel,
improving the performance of the decoder. In the comparator, the Z(idx) value
and each subrange are also compared in parallel in order to figure out which
weight value should be written to the output in the current iteration. Once the
comparison is done, we store the corresponding element to the decoded weight
buffer (lines 7–9 in Figure 5.7). This process is iteratively performed according to
the orchestration of the control logic.
For proof-of-concept of the decoding hardware,5 we have implemented the hard-
ware in a FPGA board (Xilinx ZCU106). We have used Xilinx Vivado design suite to
implement the decoder design. We have synthesized our design for 150 MHz with
16 DUs (the maximum number of DUs which the FPGA chip can accommodate),
which results in 16× higher throughput than the 1-DU decoder implementation.
To utilize 16 DUs, we divide the weight elements into 16 chunks as evenly as
possible and encode each chunk into a separate bitstream. When decoding the
bitstreams, we send each bitstream to each of the 16 DUs. Although the prototype
5 Hardware resources for the 16-DU decoder in FPGA are as follows: 141,568 LUTs; 49,379
flip-flops; 1152 DSP48E blocks; and 512 BRAM blocks. If we share the decoded weight buffer
with the CNN accelerator, we could further reduce the resource usage though we design a
separate decoded weight buffer in the implementation.

--- Strana 92 ---
74
5 Arithmetic Coding and Decoding for 5-Bit CNN Weights
CNN layer1 execution with W1
BS1
decode
BS1
transfer
BS2
decode
BS2
transfer
CNN layer2 execution with W2
BS3
decode
BS3
transfer
…
Figure 5.11
Latency hiding for the decoding hardware.
is implemented with 16 DUs, the number of DUs is one of the design parameters
which can be flexibly determined by the designer considering the available hard-
ware resources (we will demonstrate the latency vs. resource usage trade-off in
Section 5.6.3). If we implement the decoding hardware with application-specific
integrated circuits (ASICs), we could implement more number of DUs, resulting in
a better decoding throughput. According to the implementation results, the single
DU hardware takes 6.45 clock cycles per one weight element decoding, on average,
though the total number of decoding cycles depends on the pattern and sequence
of the weight elements in the bitstream.
When executing the CNN inference, the weight decoding must be performed
prior to the convolution operations. Without hiding the decoding latency, the
latency overhead would be nonnegligible, which is not desirable. To minimize the
decoding latency, we can overlap the transfer and decoding latency for weights
in the ith CNN layer with the (i −1)th CNN layer execution latency in the CNN
accelerator (illustrated in Figure 5.11). In this case, the latency overhead will be
only decoding latency of the weights for the first CNN layer (where the weight
decoding latency cannot be overlapped) as long as the following two conditions
are satisfied. First, the input and output feature maps are reused across the CNN
layers in the CNN accelerator (hence, the input and output feature maps do not
need to be transferred between the memory and the PLM of the accelerator).
Second, data transfer and decoding latency of CNN layer i are fully hidden by
the execution time of CNN layer i −1, where integer i > 1. To satisfy the second
condition, more DUs in the decoding hardware can be desirable. This is because
the decoding latency can be further reduced as we have more DUs in the decoder.
5.5
Evaluation Methodology
We show the evaluation results in terms of three metrics: compression ratio, energy
consumption in the main memory, and latency overhead. For benchmarks, we use
five CNN models: Network-in-Network (NiN) [117], SqueezeNet [62], GoogleNet
[35], AlexNet [30], and CaffeNet [118]. We use 32 for N in the evaluations.
We have used the trained FP32 weights provided by Caffe framework [118].
For 5-bit quantization, we have employed an incremental network quantization
(INQ) [95] method to generate 5-bit power-of-two (i.e., utilizing binary logarithm
or logarithm to the base 2) quantized weights from the 32-bit full-precision

--- Strana 93 ---
5.6 Evaluation Results
75
weights. The main reason we choose INQ for the baseline is that it shows
comparable or even better accuracy with 5-bit quantized weights as compared
to 32-bit full-precision weights when running CNN inferences. Though we use
a specific method (INQ) for 5-bit power-of-two quantization, the presented
technique can be deployed with any 5-bit quantization method. For AlexNet
and CaffeNet, we have additionally employed weight pruning (we used [119]
and [120] for weight pruning of AlexNet and CaffeNet, respectively) to figure
out how weight pruning affects the compression ratio. Although the top-1/top-5
accuracies show a little fluctuation by applying the weight pruning,6 the presented
compression technique itself does not adversely affect the inference accuracy as
the technique is based on lossless compression. In other words, accuracy losses
are not attributed to the compression technique, but attributed to the quantization
and/or weight pruning. For AlexNet and CaffeNet, we demonstrate the results for
two separate cases: (i) only 5-bit quantization (denoted as Q) and (ii) pruning and
5-bit quantization (denoted as P + Q).
Firstly, we present compression ratio (Section 5.6.1), memory energy consump-
tion (Section 5.6.1), and latency overheads for CNN inference (Section 5.6.2). We
only compare the compression ratio and memory energy consumption for CNN
convolutional (CONV) layers while excluding the fully connected (FC) layers. For
latency overheads, we assume that we only compress CONV layers’ weights, while
the weights of the other layers such as FC layers are not compressed. In this case,
we do not have the latency overheads of the layers other than the CONV layers
because it does not need to be decompressed. Although early CNN models have a
large number of weights in FC layers (e.g., AlexNet [30]), recent CNN models have
FC layers only in the last layer of the CNN model (e.g., ResNet [32]), meaning that
the CNN layer architecture is mostly composed of CONV layers. For deployment of
the presented technique to highly resource-constrained systems, we also demon-
strate a trade-off between the CNN inference latency and hardware resource usage
(Section 5.6.3). In addition, we further show a system-level energy consumption
for a CNN inference in highly resource-constrained systems (Section 5.6.4).
5.6
Evaluation Results
5.6.1
Compression Ratio and Memory Energy Consumption
The compression ratio (CR) is defined as the ratio of uncompressed data size Su to
the compressed data size Sc, that is, CR = Su∕Sc. Table 5.1 summarizes the com-
pression ratio across five CNN models. In Table 5.1, 32-bit, 16-bit, 8-bit, and 5-bit
6 Weight pruning results in top-1/top-5=−0.0%/+0.4% and top-1/top-5=−1.5%/−1.4% for
AlexNet and CaffeNet, respectively. The accuracy results are obtained by using Caffe framework
[118] with ImageNet dataset [121].

--- Strana 94 ---
76
5 Arithmetic Coding and Decoding for 5-Bit CNN Weights
Table 5.1
Compression ratio (for only CONV layers) comparison across ﬁve CNN models.
CNN models
32-bit
16-bit
8-bit
5-bit
HC-5bit
AC-5bit
IE-5bit
NiN (Q)
9.335
9.744
9.747
SqueezeNet (Q)
8.817
9.118
9.157
GoogleNet (Q)
8.801
9.434
9.454
AlexNet (Q)
9.652
9.829
9.835
CaffeNet (Q)
1.000
2.000
4.000
6.400
9.524
9.672
9.678
Average (Q)
9.226
9.560
9.574
AlexNet (P + Q)
26.675
57.498
57.536
CaffeNet (P + Q)
28.806
112.154
112.333
Average (P + Q)
27.744
84.826
84.934
Bold values denote the values corresponding to our proposed/presented arithmetic coding
technique.
correspond to the cases of uncompressed 32-bit FP, 16-bit quantized, 8-bit quan-
tized, and 5-bit quantized weights, respectively. HC-5bit and AC-5bit (the pre-
sented technique) denote the cases of 5-bit quantized weight compressed with
Huffman coding and arithmetic coding, respectively. IE-5bit denotes the theoreti-
cal bound of compression ratio (information entropy) when losslessly compressing
the 5-bit quantized weight data.
In the case of only quantization (Q), the AC-5bit reduces the weight data size
by 9.6× as compared to the uncompressed 32-bit weight data. In addition, the
presented technique reduces the weight data size by 29.8–34.9% as compared
to the uncompressed 5-bit quantized weight data size. It means the presented
technique can significantly reduce the required storage and memory. In addition,
the arithmetic coding-based compression technique shows better compression
ratio as compared to the Huffman coding-based compression technique. On aver-
age, when compressing the 5-bit quantized weight data, the presented technique
results in 3.7% (up to 7.2%) better compression ratio compared to the Huffman
coding-based technique (HC-5bit). Moreover, the arithmetic coding-based com-
pression technique shows near-optimal compression ratios. As compared to
IE-5bit, the AC-5bit shows only 0.1% less compression ratio, on average.
In the case of pruning and quantization (P + Q), the AC-5-bit obtains 57.5× and
112.2× higher compression ratio over 32-bit FP for AlexNet and CaffeNet, respec-
tively. The pruning significantly increases the number of zero-valued elements
in the weights, which also significantly contributes to the compression ratio. On
the other hand, HC-5-bit obtains 26.7× and 28.8× (as compared to the 32-bit FP)

--- Strana 95 ---
5.6 Evaluation Results
77
better compression ratios for AlexNet and CaffeNet, respectively. However, the
AC-5bit results in 2.2× and 3.9× better compression ratios for AlexNet and Caf-
feNet, respectively, as compared to HC-5bit. As shown in the results (Table 5.1),
the presented technique shows more promising results when applying the weight
pruning which is a widely used technique for CNN inferences.
We also compare the presented technique with other state-of-the-art techniques
in terms of the compression ratio when using AlexNet [30]. Though the compar-
ison in Table 5.1 is based on the compression of the weight in the CONV layers,
for a fair comparison, we have compared the presented technique to other tech-
niques based on the compression of the weights in the entire layers including
the FC layers. Before applying the presented compression technique, the entire
CONV and FC layers are pruned by [119] and quantized to 5-bit format by [95].
As shown in Table 5.2, the presented technique shows better compression ratio as
compared to the techniques or methods presented in [46], [97], and [104]. As com-
pared to the method presented in [106]; however, the presented technique shows
a little lower compression ratio by 24.7%. In [106], the bzip2 compression is addi-
tionally applied to pruned and quantized weights. In this case, there would be a
nonnegligible latency overhead for decompressing the compressed weights during
the runtime CNN inference. Please note that without bzip2 compression in [106],
the compression ratio of the presented technique is better than that of [106] by
14.2%. Since this chapter has also introduced hardware decoder and pipelining
which minimizes latency overhead of runtime weight decompression, the pre-
sented technique would be more practical and suitable for real-world deployment.
Higher weight compression ratio translates into less memory energy consump-
tion when transferring the weight data to the PLM of the CNN accelerator or the
NPU. Table 5.3 presents memory data transfer energy comparison results when
the device uses LPDDR4 (5 pJ per bit [122] and 0.43 W static power [123]) dynamic
Table 5.2
AlexNet (full layers including CONV and
FC layers) compression ratio comparison of the
presented technique with the state-of-the-art
methods.
Method
Compression
ratio
[46]
34.8
[97]
40.7
[104]
21.9
[106] (w/o bzip2)
57.5 (37.9)
Presented technique (AC-5 bit)
43.3

--- Strana 96 ---
78
5 Arithmetic Coding and Decoding for 5-Bit CNN Weights
Table 5.3
Memory energy consumption (μJ) when transferring the weight data to the
CNN accelerator or NPU on-chip memory.
CNN model
32-bit
16-bit
8-bit
5-bit
HC-5bit
AC-5bit
IE-5bit
NiN (Q)
17532.72
8766.36
4383.18
2924.72
1907.95
1814.19
1798.76
SqueezeNet (Q)
2874.67
1437.34
718.67
503.87
353.31
341.66
313.94
GoogleNet (Q)
14089.60
7044.80
3522.40
2398.83
1626.18
1536.88
1490.30
AlexNet (Q)
5388.55
2694.27
1347.14
902.44
567.10
556.90
547.88
CaffeNet (Q)
574.74
565.21
556.77
AlexNet (P + Q)
201.99
93.71
93.65
CaffeNet (P + Q)
187.06
48.05
47.97
random access memory. We have estimated the dynamic energy by multiplying
the accessed data size (in bits) by the per-bit access energy and static energy by
multiplying the static power by the memory transfer time. The total estimated
energy consumption is a summation of the dynamic and static energy. When
only employing the 5-bit quantization (Q), the AC-5bit reduces the memory data
transfer energy by 89.2% as compared to the case of using uncompressed 32-bit
FP weight data. The AC-5bit also leads to 36.4% and 3.4% less memory energy
consumption for weight transfer as compared to the cases of uncompressed 5-bit
weight and HC-5bit, respectively. When employing both 5-bit quantization and
pruning (P + Q), the AC-5bit results in 98.3% and 99.1% less memory energy
consumption for AlexNet and CaffeNet, respectively, as compared to the case
of 32-bit FP weights. Even compared to HC-5bit, the AC-5bit reduces memory
energy consumption by 53.6% and 74.3% for AlexNet and CaffeNet, respectively.
Considering that the energy consumption in memory-related parts accounts for a
large portion in resource-constrained edge systems [109], the presented technique
will enable more energy-efficient resource-constrained edge devices.
5.6.2
Latency Overhead
The presented technique incurs decoding latency before the weight data are loaded
to the accelerator on-chip memory. As explained in Section 5.4.1, the decoding
latency can be hidden by overlapping bitstream decoding in the decoding hard-
ware with the CNN layer execution in the accelerator or the NPU. Even with the
latency hiding, the weight decoding latency for the first layer in the CNN model
cannot be hidden, thus incurring the latency overhead. Table 5.4 summarizes the
latency overhead results when using the presented decoding hardware combined
with various state-of-the-art CNN accelerators [112, 113, 114] (“Combined CNN

--- Strana 97 ---
5.6 Evaluation Results
79
Table 5.4
Inference latency (in milliseconds) and overhead comparison across the
baseline (w/o the presented technique) and the presented technique (16-DU decoder) w/
latency hiding (LH) and w/o LH when employing various state-of-the-art CNN
accelerators.
Combined CNN
accelerator
[112]
[113]
[114]
CNN model
AlexNet
AlexNet
AlexNet
GoogleNet
Platform
Stratix-V GXA7
ZC 706
Xilinx ZU9 MPSoC
Clock (MHz)
155
156.25
100
Precision (bits)
5-bits
5-bits
8-bits
Peak throughput
(GOP/s)
206.87
155.10
14.97
15.63
Decode + Transfer
latency
3.79
6.70
16.06
42.62
Decode + Transfer
latency (pruned)
3.45
3.42
10.94
N/A
Baseline inference
latency
8.83
52.80
90.01
202.02
Inference
latency of the
presented
technique w/ LH
(overhead)
9.31 (5.48%)
52.886
(0.16%)
91.16
(1.27%)
204.85
(1.40%)
Inference
latency of the
presented
technique w/ LH
(overhead) w/
pruned weights
8.91 (0.91%)
52.884
(0.16%)
90.15
(0.16%)
N/A
Inference latency
of the presented
technique w/o LH
(overhead)
12.62 (42.94%)
59.50
(13.26%)
106.07
(17.84%)
244.64
(21.10%)
Inference latency
of the presented
technique w/o LH
(overhead) w/
pruned weights
12.28 (39.07%)
56.24
(6.48%)
100.95
(12.15%)
N/A
When estimating the decoding latency, we assume that the presented decoder operates at the
same clock frequency as the CNN accelerator.
Source: Adapted from [112–114].

--- Strana 98 ---
80
5 Arithmetic Coding and Decoding for 5-Bit CNN Weights
Accelerator” in Table 5.4). We present the latency overhead results when the intro-
duced decoding hardware (Figure 5.10) is combined with the FPGA-based CNN
accelerators because the decoding hardware prototype is implemented and veri-
fied in an FPGA.
There is also a CNN accelerator [114] with 8-bit precision in Table 5.4, while
the main target for weight compression is 5-bit quantized weights. Though we
have suggested the presented technique for 5-bit weights, the presented arithmetic
coding-based encoding and decoding technique can also be used along with 8-bit
precision-based CNN accelerators. In this case, we only compress 5-bits within
each 8-bit weight element by using the arithmetic coding, while the remaining
bits (i.e., 3-bits) of the weights remain uncompressed (the remaining 3-bits can
be transferred directly from the memory to the CNN accelerator without passing
through the hardware decoder). In this case, we will have a lower compression
ratio, and a higher weight decoding and transfer latency as compared to the case
of 5-bit weight compression due to the uncompressed part in each weight element.
Nonetheless, to present the versatility of the presented technique, we also present
the latency overhead results when adopting the presented technique with the 8-bit
precision accelerator [114] in Table 5.4.
When using the presented decoding hardware and various CNN accelerators
without the latency hiding, the latency overhead is 13.26–42.94%. On the other
hand, with the latency hiding,7 the presented technique without pruning shows
0.16–5.48% latency overheads when performing the CNN inferences, implying
that the latency overhead from the decoding hardware is small. In the case of the
presented technique with pruning and latency hiding, the latency overheads are
almost negligible (0.16–0.91%). When focusing on the case with 8-bit precision
accelerator [114] in Table 5.4, the latency overhead is only up to 1.40%, implying
that the presented technique can also be deployed with 8-bit precision accelerator
with a negligible latency overhead.
The huge latency overhead reduction when applying the pruning is attributed
to the reduced weight data size with arithmetic coding (due to the increase in
the number of zero-valued weight elements), resulting in quicker decoding and
shorter weight transfer latency. Considering that the main focus of the presented
technique is resource-constrained edge devices, this small latency overhead is suf-
ficiently acceptable as the benefits from the reduced memory and storage require-
ment and reduced memory energy consumption are much greater than the latency
overhead.
7 The latency hiding does not affect the compression ratio, but reduces latency overhead
incurred by the runtime decoding.

--- Strana 99 ---
5.6 Evaluation Results
81
5.6.3
Latency vs. Resource Usage Trade-Off
For systems or devices under tight resource constraints, we also present the
latency vs. resource usage trade-off when employing 2-DU, 4-DU, 8-DU, and
16-DU decoders.8 The 2-DU, 4-DU, and 8-DU designs require much less hardware
resources than the 16-DU design. Thus, the 2-DU, 4-DU, and 8-DU designs can be
suitable for small or tiny embedded edge devices. However, the smaller number
of DUs will lead to a higher decoding latency overhead, which also results in
increased CNN inference latency. As shown in Figure 5.12, in the case of the
4-DU and 8-DU decoders, performance overheads without pruning can be up to
34.2% and 8.73%, respectively, whereas the performance overheads with pruning
can be up to 31.4% and 2.77%, respectively, even with the latency hiding. With the
2-DU decoder, which can be deployed for the systems with extremely stringent
resource constraints, the latency overhead can be up to 126.1% without pruning
and 108.0% with pruning. The reason why the decoding time overhead seems to
be large when used with the CNN accelerator in [112] is that the baseline CNN
inference latency in [112] is very small, which makes the latency overhead from
the decoder relatively large. For the decoding overhead with the CNN accelerator
in [114], even though the baseline inference latency of [114] is higher than that
0.00
20.00
40.00
60.00
80.00
100.00
120.00
140.00
[9]
[10]
[11]
[9]
[10]
[11]
Decoding time overhead w/ LH
(w/ pruned weights)
Decoding time overhead w/ LH
2-DU
4-DU
8-DU
16-DU
Overhead (%)
Figure 5.12
A comparison of decoding time overheads across the number of DUs in the
decoder (2-DU, 4-DU, 8-DU, and 16-DU) when running AlexNet. Please note that LH
stands for latency hiding
8 We have additionally implemented and verified 8-DU decoder design in ZCU106. We have
also implemented and verified 2-DU and 4-DU decoder designs in Ultra96 platform, which is
used in highly resource-constrained edge devices and/or embedded systems.

--- Strana 100 ---
82
5 Arithmetic Coding and Decoding for 5-Bit CNN Weights
of [113], the latency overhead is larger as compared to the case of [113]. This is
because the CNN accelerator in [114] uses the 8-bit precision accelerator, which
implies that the compression ratio will be worse in [114] as compared to 5-bit
precision accelerators as the presented arithmetic coding technique is optimized
for 5-bit weight encoding (i.e., 5-bits within 8-bits element are compressed
while the remaining 3-bits remain uncompressed). This results in relatively high
transfer latency when using the CNN accelerator in [114] with the decoder. In
the cases of 8-DU and 16-DU with the CNN accelerator in [114], the transfer
latency and decoding latency can be mostly hidden by the CNN layer processing
time. However, in the cases of 2-DU and 4-DU with the CNN accelerator in
[114], the transfer latency and decoding latency cannot be hidden by the CNN
layer processing time, leading to the large latency overhead. For [112], though
relative decoding time overhead can be large, the absolute inference latency
is negligibly affected (+9.54 ms and +2.77 ms with 2-DU and 4-DU decoders,
respectively) as shown in Table 5.5. For [114], the decoding time overheads
with 2-DU and 4-DU decoders can be decreased if we use 5-bit precision CNN
accelerators.
In typical edge devices, the baseline CNN inference latency will not be very
small. This is because the CNN accelerator performance will be limited due to
the tight hardware resource constraints. In addition, satisfying the deadline of
the response time (i.e., latency) is more important in edge or embedded systems,
which imply that the increased latency overhead is acceptable as long as it does
not violate the response time deadline. Thus, the edge system designers can choose
the appropriate number of DUs by considering the performance requirements and
resource constraints of the system under design.
Table 5.5
Inference latencies (in ms) across the
state-of-the-art CNN accelerators without the presented
technique (baseline) and with the presented technique
(2-DU, 4-DU, 8-DU, and 16-DU).
Combined CNN accelerator
[112]
[113]
[114]
Baseline
8.83
52.80
90.01
2-DU
18.37
53.23
138.96
4-DU
11.60
53.02
105.46
8-DU
9.02
52.91
92.50
16-DU
8.91
52.88
90.15

--- Strana 101 ---
5.6 Evaluation Results
83
5.6.4
System-Level Energy Estimation
We compare the system-level energy when using the presented arithmetic
coding-based compression for the 5-bit quantized and pruned weights with
4-DU decoder and baseline (i.e., without the presented compression and decoder
while only 5-bit quantization is employed since the combined CNN accelerators
supports 5-bit precision arithmetic operations). The system-level energy includes
the CNN accelerator (with the 4-DU decoder in the case with the presented
technique) energy, DRAM-based main memory energy, and NVMe (Non-Volatile
Memory Express) flash-based storage energy. Since the nonvolatile flash storage
will be accessed to load the weights into the main memory before CNN infer-
ences, we have included the flash-based storage energy to the system-level energy
estimation. Please note that we use the flash energy parameter reported in [124]
(1 J/28 MB = 4.26 nJ per bit). Since CNN accelerator power is reported in [112]
and [113], while it is not reported in [114], we only include the results with
[112] and [113] for the system-level energy estimation. The reason why we choose
the 4-DU decoder among the various configurations is that the 4-DU decoder can
be accommodated in an edge/embedded platform (such as Ultra96) and shows a
good tradeoff between the inference latency and resource usage.
As shown in Table 5.6, for the combined accelerators with the presented
technique, power consumption and inference latency are increased, which results
in an increased energy consumption in the FPGA by 40.2% and 5.7% with the
Table 5.6
System-level energy comparison between the baseline (Q) and the presented
technique (P + Q) with 4-DU decoder.
Combined CNN accelerator
[112]
[113]
FPGA platform
Stratix-GXA7
ZC706
Baseline (Q)
Latency (ms)
8.83
52.80
FPGA power (W)
8.69
12.02
FPGA energy (mJ)
76.73
634.66
Total energy (mJ)
130.27
707.10
Our technique
(P + Q) with
4-DU decoder
Latency (ms)
11.60
53.23
FPGA power (W)
9.28
12.61
FPGA energy (mJ)
107.59
670.96
Total energy (mJ)
118.11
699.39

--- Strana 102 ---
84
5 Arithmetic Coding and Decoding for 5-Bit CNN Weights
CNN accelerators in [112] and [113], respectively. However, when considering
the system-level energy consumption which includes the DRAM memory and
flash-based storage energy consumption, the presented technique with 4-DU
configuration results in the system-level energy reduction by 9.3% and 1.1% with
the CNN accelerators in [112] and [113], respectively. This is attributed to the
reduced weight data size from the presented arithmetic coding-based weight
compression.
5.7
Chapter Summary
In resource-constrained edge devices, one of the most serious challenges for
deploying on-device CNN inferences is huge weight data size which can hardly be
fully stored in an edge device. This chapter introduced an arithmetic coding-based
5-bit quantized weight compression technique with range scaling for lossless 5-bit
weight compression. The chapter also presented a decoding hardware for fast, yet
efficient runtime weight decoding (decompression). Evaluation results revealed
that employing the presented weight compression technique to 5-bit quantized
weights (not pruned) achieved 9.6× better compression ratio as compared to the
uncompressed 32-bit FP weights. When employing the presented technique to
the pruned 5-bit quantized weights, the technique resulted in 57.5×–112.2× better
compression ratio as compared to the uncompressed 32-bit FP weights. Due to the
reduced weight data size, the technique also led to memory data transfer energy
reduction by 89.2% (by up to 99.1% for pruned weights), on average, as compared
to the uncompressed 32-bit FP weight data. When combining the presented
decoding hardware with various state-of-the-art CNN accelerators, the latency
overheads of the presented technique with 16-DU decoder along with the latency
hiding were only 0.16–5.48% and 0.16–0.91% for nonpruned and pruned weights,
respectively. In addition, the presented technique with 4-DU decoder hardware
reduced system-level energy consumption by 1.1–9.3% as compared to the case
without the presented technique.

--- Strana 103 ---
85
Part III
Dense CNN Accelerators

--- Strana 104 ---

--- Strana 105 ---
87
6
Contemporary Dense CNN Accelerators
This chapter provides background on dense convolutional neural network (CNN)
accelerators, including the exact definition of the dense CNN accelerators.
The chapter then discusses popular architectures of the contemporary dense
CNN accelerator. Toward the end, the chapter highlights recent advancements in
dense CNN accelerators.
6.1
Background on Dense CNN Accelerators
The CNN accelerators generally perform matrix multiplication (MM) with
hardware logic. Since the CNN weights and feature maps contain lots of zeros,
many researches have explored the efficient representation of the sparse matrix.
However, in the early stages of the CNN hardware development, the dense format
representation has been widely used as it is more intuitive and efficient for storing
the dense (i.e., low sparsity) matrix.
As shown in Figure 6.1, we define a dense CNN accelerator as a CNN accelerator
that accepts the weights or activation maps (feature maps) in dense format matrices.
Please note that a dense format can also contain a sparse matrix even if the
sparsity of the matrix is sufficiently high. Thus, it does not necessarily mean
that the dense format always contains dense matrices for representing weights
or activation maps. We cover the CNN accelerators that accept sparse format
matrices in Part IV of this book (Chapters 9–12).
6.2
Representation of the CNN Weights and Feature
Maps in Dense Format
Dense CNN accelerators generally perform matrix multiplications. Thus, it is
natural to represent CNN weights (filters) and input feature maps (IFMs) in
Accelerators for Convolutional Neural Networks, First Edition.
Arslan Munir, Joonho Kong, and Mahmood Azhar Qureshi.
© 2024 The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Published 2024 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

--- Strana 106 ---
88
6 Contemporary Dense CNN Accelerators
a
b
c
d
e
f
a
2
Non-zero value (NV)
Column index (CI)
0
b
4
1
c
1
2
d
0
3
e
3
6
f
4
6
Row pointer (RP)
Sparse format
Dense format
0
1
2
3
4
0
1
2
3
4
row
index
column
index
0
1
2
3
4
5
0
1
2
3
4
5
0
1
2
3
4
5
Dense CNN
accelerator 
Sparse CNN
accelerator 
Main
focus of
this
chapter
Figure 6.1
The comparison between the dense and sparse CNN accelerators. We have
shown the compressed sparse row (CSR) format as an example of the sparse format
although other sparse formats, such as bitmap-based compression, can also be used.
a matrix format for dense CNN accelerators. Since the convolution operations
are performed like a sliding window (i.e., CNN filters slide onto the IFMs), the
IFMs should be unrolled for dense format matrix conversion. The unrolled dense
matrix of the IFMs is often referred to as Toeplitz matrix.
Figure 6.2 shows how the IFMs and filters are transformed into a matrix–vector
multiplication. For convolution operations, the overlapped area in the IFMs
(gray-shaded part in the IFM in Figure 6.2) is flattened into a row vector format
with the dimension of 1 × 4. As we need to perform convolution with four
overlapped areas in the example in Figure 6.2, we generate four rows, generating
a 4 × 4 matrix. Similarly, the filter is flattened into a column vector with the
dimension of 4 × 1. Finally, the generated 4 × 4 matrix and 4 × 1 vector are
multiplied, generating the 4 × 1 vector as a result.
Most of the contemporary CNN models are employing multiple input and
output channels for better feature extraction. Figure 6.3 depicts another example
of converting the CNN IFMs and filters into dense matrix–matrix multiplication
when performing a 3 × 3 convolution with two input channels and two output
channels. Assuming the filter weights slide onto the IFMs with a row major order,
the IFM elements for convolution are unrolled in a form of row vectors to generate
one output feature map (OFM) element. Since we generate a 3 × 3 OFM for a
single output channel, we have 9 rows generating the 9 × 18 matrix. A weight
filter also forms a column vector with 18 elements (=9 elements × 2 input

--- Strana 107 ---
6.3 Popular Architectures for Dense CNN Accelerators
89
I00
I01
I02
IFM
I10
I11
I12
I20
I21
I22
F00
F01
F10
F11
Filter
I00
I01
I10
I11
I01
I02
I11
I12
I10
I11
I20
I21
I11
I12
I21
I22
F00
F01
F10
F11
Flatten
submatrix
into row
vector   
Flatten
matrix into
column
vector
I00 X F00 + I01 X F01 + I10 X F10 + I11 X F11
I01 X F00 + I02 X F01 + I11 X F10 + I12 X F11
I10 X F00 + I11 X F01 + I20 X F10 + I21 X F11
I11 X F00 + I12 X F01 + I21 X F10 + I22 X F11
I00
I01
I02
I10
I11
I12
I20
I21
I22
I00
I01
I02
I10
I11
I12
I20
I21
I22
I00
I01
I02
I10
I11
I12
I20
I21
I22
Figure 6.2
The conversion of convolution operations into matrix–vector multiplication.
channels). As we have two sets of filters to generate the two output channels, we
append the two column vectors to make a matrix format with the dimension of
18 × 2. As a result of the convolution of the example presented in Figure 6.3, we
obtain the matrix of OFMs with the dimension of 9 × 2.
6.3
Popular Architectures for Dense CNN Accelerators
The widely used dense CNN accelerators are based on systolic arrays as shown in
Figure 6.4a. The systolic arrays employ a dataflow-driven architecture as the data
are moved between the processing elements (PEs) and transferred via the fixed
routes while minimizing the role of the control logic (i.e., minimizing the impact
of the control flow). The systolic arrays are widely used for matrix multiplication
(MM) engine.
In systolic arrays, there are multiple PEs which are organized in a grid. In a
single PE, multiply-and-accumulate (MAC) is a key operation. Thus, a PE has
a multiplier and an adder which perform the multiplication and accumulation,
respectively. There are also registers in systolic arrays to temporarily store the

--- Strana 108 ---
IFM ch0
IFM ch1
CNN weight filters
…
…
…
…
…
…
…
3 × 3 × 2 = 18
9
3 × 3 × 2 = 18
2
I12
I20
I21
I22
I13
I21
I22
I23
I33
I41
I42
I43
I34
I42
I43
I44
F0
12
F0
20
F0
21
F0
22
F1
12
F1
20
F1
21
F1
22
I00
I01
I02
I03
I04
I10
I11
I12
I13
I14
I20
I21
I22
I23
I24
I30
I31
I32
I33
I34
I40
I41
I42
I43
I44
I00
I01
I02
I03
I04
I10
I11
I12
I13
I14
I20
I21
I22
I23
I24
I30
I31
I32
I33
I34
I40
I41
I42
I43
I44
F0
00
F0
01
F0
02
F0
10
F0
11
F0
12
F0
20
F0
21
F1
22
F1
00
F1
01
F1
02
F1
10
F1
11
F1
12
F1
20
F1
21
F1
22
F0
00
F0
01
F0
02
F0
10
F0
11
F0
12
F0
20
F0
21
F1
22
F1
00
F1
01
F1
02
F1
10
F1
11
F1
12
F1
20
F1
21
F1
22
I00
I01
I02
I10
I01
I02
I03
I11
I21
I22
I23
I31
I22
I23
I24
I32
F0
00
F0
01
F0
02
F0
10
F1
00
F1
01
F1
02
F1
10
Figure 6.3
The conversion of multichannel convolution operations into matrix–matrix multiplication.

--- Strana 109 ---
6.3 Popular Architectures for Dense CNN Accelerators
91
Input/output buffer
…
Multiple
PEs
MAC unit
BN
ACT
MAC unit
BN
ACT
MAC unit
BN
ACT
MAC unit
BN
ACT
PE
Input
buffer
Output buffer
PE
PE
PE
PE
PE
PE
PE
PE
PE
PE
PE
…
…
…
…
…
…
…
Weight loading
BN
ACT
MAC unit
BN
ACT
MAC unit
BN
ACT
(a)
(b)
Figure 6.4
Hardware architecture of systolic array- and MAC array-based CNN
accelerator. BN and ACT stand for batch normalization and activation, respectively.
(a) Systolic array-based CNN accelerator architecture (weight stationary). (b) An array of
MAC PE-based CNN accelerator architecture.
weights, inputs, and partial sums (outputs). In systolic arrays, there are two
routing paths between the PEs: one in the X-axis direction and the other in the
Y-axis direction. These paths can be differently used depending on different
dataflows.
In typical systolic arrays, there are three representative dataflows [54]: weight
stationary, output stationary, and input stationary. In case of the weight station-
ary dataflow, the weights are pinned into the PEs, and the inputs are streamed
across the PEs (in the direction of X-axis). The accumulated outputs are delivered
through the PEs in the direction of Y-axis. In the case of output stationary dataflow,
the outputs are pinned into the PEs while the inputs and the weights are streamed
in the direction of X-axis and Y-axis, respectively. In the case of input stationary
dataflow, the inputs are pinned to the PEs while the weights are streamed in the
direction of X-axis, and the outputs are accumulated in the direction of Y-axis.
Figure 6.5 summarizes the three dataflows used in systolic arrays.
Instead of systolic arrays where PEs are organized in a grid, one can also utilize
a MAC array-based structure for CNN accelerators. As shown in Figure 6.4b, this
architecture is similar to the single instruction multiple data (SIMD) architecture
where a single instruction triggers multiple PEs in the array. The MAC array-based
structure exploits the parallelism of the MACs within the matrix multiplications.
For example, when performing the inner products, the MAC operations can
be executed in parallel with different rows and columns of the input matrices.
In addition, as in [125] and also described in Chapter 15, the multiple MAC PEs
in the array can be used in parallel to generate multiple OFMs in parallel.

--- Strana 110 ---
92
6 Contemporary Dense CNN Accelerators
PE
PE
…
…
…
…
…
…
W
W
PE
PE
W
W
PE
W
PE
W
PE
W
PE
W
PE
W
Output buffer
Input
stream 
PE
PE
…
…
…
…
…
…
O
O
PE
PE
O
O
PE
O
PE
O
PE
O
PE
O
PE
O
Input
stream
PE
PE
…
…
…
…
…
…
I
I
PE
PE
I
I
PE
I
PE
I
PE
I
PE
I
PE
I
Weight
stream
Weight loading
Input loading
Weight
stream 
Output buffer
(a)
(b)
(c)
Figure 6.5
Three widely used systolic array dataﬂows in CNN accelerators. (a) Weight
stationary, (b) output stationary, and (c) input stationary.
6.4
Recent Advancements in Dense CNN Accelerators
Many dense architectures have been introduced in the past for the acceleration
of CNN inference. The proposed accelerators either optimize the compute
[39, 126–130] or the memory bandwidth [131, 132]. Accelerators proposed in
[133, 134] use Booth encoding to avoid the use of zeros and reduce the total
computations. They, however, still transfer zeros to and from memory which
incurs static random access memory (SRAM) area and energy overhead. Block
circulant matrices for weights were introduced in CirCNN [135]. CirCNN,
however, requires complex fast Fourier transform (FFT) operations in its PE
design which significantly increases the area overhead.
In-memory accelerators have also been presented in literature [136, 137] that
use analog logic design to perform matrix multiplications within memory. Analog
circuits, however, are impacted by noise and variations during the manufacturing
process which can significantly impact the CNN model accuracy during inference.
Chen et al. have proposed Eyeriss [45], a nonsystolic array, reconfigurable
spatial architecture along with a new dataflow scheme called row stationary to
maximize the data reuse. This design, however, incurs high PE costs owing to
local storage and control in PE. It also has low hardware utilization which results
in low throughput per PE. Liu et al. [138] have proposed an field-programmable
gate array (FPGA)-based CNN accelerator with an integrated depthwise separable
mode of operation. This accelerator, however, has low throughput because
of the usage of a 32-bit floating point format. Bai et al. [139] have proposed
an FPGA-based CNN accelerator having a dedicated matrix multiplication
engine (MME) on Arria 10 SoC. It achieves a frame rate of 266 fps; however,
its MME engine has a huge digital signal processing (DSP) cost of 1200+ DSP
blocks. Miyashita et al. [37] have introduced the concept of logarithmic data

--- Strana 111 ---
6.5 Chapter Summary
93
representation for neural network accelerator designs. It also gives accuracy
comparison between linear and log quantization. Vogel et al. [38] have proposed
an accelerator design using an arbitrary log base. It, however, does not utilize
the low hardware overhead of the log-based PE and instead rely on linear PE
arrangements. Huan et al. [140] propose a reconfigurable design for various
convolution kernels. It uses a propagated input data-flow scheme but incurs high
latency and low hardware utilization. Jo et al. [141] have proposed a rescheduled
dataflow for convolution to optimize the energy efficiency. Chang and Chang
[142] have proposed VWA, a vectorwise accelerator architecture, with the goal
of maximizing hardware utilization. It supports various kernel sizes from 1 × 1
to 5 × 5. Although some of the recent designs achieve high hardware utilization,
they are not able to increase the peak throughput per PE count beyond unity
owing to the use of single-core, linear PEs with high area cost.
One of the most well-known dense CNN accelerators from industries is Google
tensor processing unit (TPU). The TPUs have been deployed in Google data cen-
ters since 2015 [78]. According to [127], TPUv1 is based on 256 × 256 PE-based
systolic array with 8 bit integer precision support. However, for the fast deploy-
ment of TPUv1, architectural support for sparse matrix multiplication has not
been included, meaning that the TPUv1 only accepts dense format inputs. The
TPU has been currently updated to TPUv4i, which shows 1.5× better peak tera
floating-point operations per second (TFLOPS) per chip with bf16 (brain floating
point) precision support.
6.5
Chapter Summary
This chapter defined dense CNN accelerators and provided background of dense
CNN accelerators. The chapter discussed the representation of CNN weights
and feature maps in dense format that is required for dense CNN accelerators.
The chapter elaborated systolic array- and MAC array-based architectures for
dense CNN accelerators. Finally, the chapter highlighted recent advancements
in dense CNN accelerators. In the following chapters, this book presents modern
dense CNN accelerators that overcome the limitations of contemporary dense
CNN accelerators. In Chapter 7, iMAC CNN accelerator is introduced, which is
based on the MAC array architecture and is suitable for resource-constrained
systems [188]. In Chapter 8, NeuroMAX accelerator is introduced, which supports
multithreaded execution and log-based MAC operation [96].

--- Strana 112 ---

--- Strana 113 ---
95
7
iMAC: Image-to-Column and General Matrix
Multiplication-Based Dense CNN Accelerator
In resource-constrained systems, cost-efficiency (i.e., performance per unit cost)
is one of the key metrics. For cost-efficient design, the approach introduced
in this chapter performs finer-grained offloading of the operations required
for convolution layers instead of offloading the entire convolution layer opera-
tions. We choose im2col (image-to-column) and MAC (general matrix-multiply
[GEMM] and accumulation), which we refer to as iMAC (im2col + MAC), for
offloading to the hardware (HW) accelerator. Though only offloading GEMM
could be a cost-efficient approach, we have determined that im2col significantly
increases the amount of data transfer (e.g., 9× in the case of 3 × 3 convolution),
and thus necessitates in situ execution of im2col and MAC within the accelerator.
This chapter presents implementation results of a prototype of the introduced
design in ZED platform (which equips ZYNQ7020) with full-stack software (SW)
including operating system (petaLinux).
7.1
Background and Motivation
Inference tasks of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) are often required to
be executed on-device (e.g., IoT edge) because of limited communication band-
width to cloud and security/privacy concerns. However, since IoT devices have a
tight resource budget, it is very hard to meet the response time requirement of the
CNNs. A major challenge of CNN inferences in resource-constrained IoT devices
is to find an optimal point of trade-off between resource cost and response time.
A tight budget for hardware resources makes it hard to offload the computational
tasks such as convolution operations. In such systems, CNN inferences are typ-
ically performed by CPUs. However, CPUs are known to be inefficient for CNN
execution because of their meagre performance on data-parallel workloads such
as matrix multiplications. Even with the single instruction multiple data (SIMD)
Accelerators for Convolutional Neural Networks, First Edition.
Arslan Munir, Joonho Kong, and Mahmood Azhar Qureshi.
© 2024 The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Published 2024 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

--- Strana 114 ---
96
7 iMAC: Image-to-Column and General Matrix Multiplication-Based Dense CNN Accelerator
instructions, general CPU provides only a few SIMD execution lanes that limit the
exploitation of parallelism in matrix or vector operations. In addition, CPUs rely
on caches for data transfer between the CPU and main memory, which can be
inefficient when running CNNs with large number of weights (i.e., weight size >
cache capacity) because of cache misses. These cache misses can result in slower
response time and relatively high energy consumption.
To improve response time and energy efficiency, one can employ the GEMM
(GEneral Matrix Multiplication) hardware accelerator such as systolic arrays to
offload convolution operations of CNNs. In fact, GEMM accelerators can be used
not only for CNNs but also for many other embedded/IoT applications, making
this design decision very attractive for resource-constrained IoT and embedded
systems. As shown in Figure 7.1, when running CNNs with a GEMM accelerator,
the GEMM can be executed in a dedicated GEMM accelerator while the other CNN
tasks can be executed in the CPU. However, before performing GEMM, we need
to unroll the input feature maps (IFMs) to fit the data into matrix or vectors that
can be applied to the GEMM hardware. This is often called as “im2col” which
is already employed in many CNN frameworks such as [143]. However, decou-
pled im2col and GEMM execution causes nonnegligible data storage and transfer
overhead. The main reason for this overhead is that im2col actually explodes the
amount of storage requirements and the amount of data transfer depending on the
weight kernel size (e.g., 3 × 3 or 5 × 5). For example, to execute 3 × 3 convolution
operations with GEMM on the accelerator, we need to transform the IFM to mul-
tiple vectors that have redundant IFM elements resulting in 9× more data storage
and transfer requirements for IFMs. To utilize a GEMM accelerator, we need to
offload the unrolled vectors, which has 9× larger size as compared to the original
data size, which is not desirable for meeting response time and energy constraints
due to high data transfer overheads.
The other problem using the hardware accelerators for CNNs is that the
CPU remains idle during the direct memory access (DMA) transfer and accel-
erator execution. If we could find the parallelism among the convolution
layer operations, we would efficiently utilize the hardware resources in the
resource-constrained systems. To exploit the parallelism, the approach that uses
both accelerators and CPUs such as [109] would be beneficial. The presented
work also exploits the parallelism in convolution layer operations to utilize both
the accelerator and the CPU simultaneously. The exploitation of parallelism and
im2col
GEMM (MAC)
Normalization
Scale bias
Add bias
Activation
Input
feature
map
Output
feature
map
Figure 7.1
A general ﬂow of the convolution layer execution.

--- Strana 115 ---
7.2 Architecture
97
HW/SW co-design eventually leads to better response time and energy efficiency
of CNN inference in the presented design.
7.2
Architecture
The iMAC hardware accelerator functions a combined operation of im2col and
MAC (we refer to it as im2col+MAC or iMAC). Figure 7.2 shows the conven-
tional software-based im2col with 5 × 5 input feature map, 3 × 3 weights, one
zero-padding, and stride as one. Since the GEMM or MAC operations can be
executed after the SW-based im2col is entirely finished, it just unrolls the IFM
into multiple vectors for matrix multiplication and accumulation in a rowwise
fashion as shown in Figure 7.2. However, as we discussed in Section 7.1, the
im2col actually generates 9× more data (25*9 elements) in the case of 3 × 3
convolutions, which causes inefficiency in terms of data storage and transfer.
Since im2col, which must be performed before GEMM, replicates IFM data
for GEMM execution, only offloading the GEMM to the accelerator increases
the required data storage and transfer, which is not desirable for cognitive IoT
systems. Hence, we combine the im2col, GEMM, and accumulation operation
within a unified hardware accelerator referred to as “iMAC.” Figure 7.3 shows
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
2
0
6
7
0
0
0
1
2
3
6
7
8
0
0
0
2
3
4
7
8
9
0
0
0
3
4
5
8
9
10
0
0
0
4
5
0
9
10
0
…....
19
20
0
24
25
0
0
0
0
* K1
* K2
* K3
* K4
* K5
* K6
* K7
* K8
* K9
25 * 9 elements
im2col
…....
0
1
6
11
16
21
0
0
2
7
12
17
22
0
0
3
8
13
18
23
0
0
4
9
14
19
24
0
0
5
10
15
20
25
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
6
0
2
7
K1
K2
K3
K4
K5
K6
K7
K8
K9
Figure 7.2
Conventional im2col execution in software.
Input
BRAM 
Output 
BRAM
Weight
BRAM 
Im2col
buffer
Im2col
FU
Mul
buffer
Out
buffer
×
+
Processing
element
+
Figure 7.3
Hardware architecture of the iMAC (im2col + MAC) accelerator with one
processing element (PE). We can also use multiple PEs to increase throughput.

--- Strana 116 ---
98
7 iMAC: Image-to-Column and General Matrix Multiplication-Based Dense CNN Accelerator
an overall architecture of the iMAC accelerator. From the input block random
access memory (BRAM), IFM data are delivered to the im2col functional units
(FUs) that perform im2col operations for a certain area of the IFM. Data that are
unrolled from the im2col FU is delivered to Im2colBuffer, which is multiplied by
the weights from the weight BRAM. Since we immediately calculate the MAC
operation with data from im2col FU, we do not need to maintain replicated data
in the memory, implying that we can reduce the amount of the data transfer
and required size of the data storage compared to the case of only offloading the
GEMM. The multiplied results are temporarily stored in multiplication buffer
(MulBuffer) and then accumulated to output buffer (OutBuffer). Finally, the
results in OutBuffer are also added to the Output BRAMs for accumulation across
the results from the multiple input channels.
To further improve performance, we can employ multiple processing ele-
ments (PEs) for parallel executions of the multiple im2col and MAC operations.
Figure 7.4 shows an example execution sequence of the iMAC accelerator with
two PEs. In this case, we can simultaneously perform im2col operations for two
columns which will be temporarily stored into Im2colBuffer in each PE. We also
carry out multiplications with weights (K1–K9) and accumulations to OutBuffer
and output BRAM for two columns (one column is processed with one PE) at the
same time, increasing the computation throughput compared to the case of using
a single PE.
0
0
6
7
Im2colBuffer
OutBuffer
MulBuffer
*K1 =
*K8 =
0
0
*K2 =
0
0
*K3 =
0
1
*K4 =
1
2
*K5 =
2
3
*K6 =
0
6
*K7 =
7
8
*K9 =
0
0
6
7
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
2
2
3
0
6
7
8
16
27
Accumulation
to OutBuffer 
Parallel execution with 2 PEs
0
0
0
5
0
0
3
4
0
0
0
2
0
7
8
9
10
0
0
12
13
14
15
0
0
17
18
19
20
0
0
22
23
24
25
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
im2col
Output BRAM
Accumulation across
multiple input channels
0
1
6
11
16
21
0
0
0
0
2
0
7
0
1
6
K1 K2 K3
K4 K5 K6
K7 K8 K9
Figure 7.4
Im2col execution in the iMAC hardware accelerator. In this example, we have
5 × 5 input feature map with 3 × 3 ﬁlter with 1 zero-padding and 1 stride. Filter weights
are assumed to be all 1.0 in this example.

--- Strana 117 ---
7.3 Implementation
99
The presented hardware design focuses on cost efficiency. Through fine-grained
offloading (we only offload the portions that take a huge latency, e.g., GEMM),
we use minimal hardware resources. Thus, the presented hardware is suitable
for accelerating CNNs in resource-constrained IoT systems. Due to the limited
on-chip memory (BRAMs), the weight data could not be reused in the presented
design. We may trade the input BRAMs for weight BRAMs in order to increase the
weight reusability. However, decreasing the size of input BRAMs has two impor-
tant disadvantages: (i) it may also reduce the PE utilization due to the reduced
input data supply, and (ii) we need more frequent input data transfer, which results
in worse performance and more power consumption.
7.3
Implementation
We implement the presented design in ZED platform [144], which has a Xilinx
Zynq 7020 field-programmable gate array (FPGA)-system-on-chip (SoC) that
integrates programmable logic and ARM Cortex-A9 CPU. For iMAC implemen-
tation, we use Vivado HLS (High-Level Synthesis) that translates high-level
programming language to Zynq-compatible hardware design. In order to actually
implement CNN, we use Darknet [143] framework with PetaLinux. For the
CNN model, we use Tiny Darknet [145]1. The presented implementation is
based on 32-bit floating-point CNN model which can be more flexibly applied
to many types of different CNN models and frameworks. The FPGA clock
frequency is set to 90 MHz. Table 7.1 shows the hardware utilization of the
presented implementation for iMAC accelerator with 8 PEs compared to the
existing designs [146–148] that use Xilinx FPGA-based platforms. Since the
presented design is geared toward resource-constrained system, we use much less
logic and memory elements in Zynq FPGA-SoCs. In terms of BRAM, we only
use around 600 KB, which is also less than the other implementations shown
in Table 7.1. Though the presented design additionally uses 728 lookup table
random access memories (LUTRAMs) (not shown in Table 7.1), the hardware
cost of an LUTRAM is comparable to an 64-bit storage, meaning that overhead
of the additional LUTRAMs is negligible (∼5.8 KB). Compared to the existing
designs, the presented design is more suitable for resource-constrained cognitive
IoT where we have much lower budget for power and hardware resource.
1 Please note that the implementation is not limited to Tiny-Darknet and other CNN models
can also be implemented with only configuring the network architecture description files in
Darknet.

--- Strana 118 ---
100
7 iMAC: Image-to-Column and General Matrix Multiplication-Based Dense CNN Accelerator
Table 7.1
Logic element and BRAM usage of the design presented in
[146–148], and ours.
[148]
(Virtex7)
[147]
(Zynq-7045)
[146]
(Zynq-7045)
Our design
(Zynq-7020)
Register
205 K
127 K
61 K
18 K
LUT
185 K
182 K
100 K
16 K
DSP
2240
780
864
50
36 Kb BRAM
512
486
320
133.5
The numbers of registers and LUTs are approximate values.
LUT, lookup table; DSP, digital signal processor.
Source: Adapted from [147–149].
7.4
Chapter Summary
This chapter presented a cost-efficient design for dense CNN accelerators. For a
cost-efficient design, the presented approach only offloaded the most critical
parts in convolution layers (i.e., im2col and GEMM) to the FPGA-based iMAC
accelerator. The results demonstrated the hardware resource efficiency of the
FPGA-based implementation of the presented iMAC hardware accelerator.
Please note that the performance and energy results of the iMAC accelerator are
presented in Chapter 14 when the software-based techniques are additionally
applied to the iMAC accelerator.

--- Strana 119 ---
101
8
NeuroMAX: A Dense CNN Accelerator
Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) enable embedding of artificial intelligence
(AI) into devices for vision-based applications with an unprecedented accuracy.
The early proposed high accuracy CNNs [30, 31, 35] required tens of millions
of parameters and computations for one inference pass. This computational
complexity along with high memory requirements greatly hampered their deploy-
ment on low-energy, resource-constrained devices. In addition to this, many
CNN architectures used varying kernel sizes which result in reconfigurability
requirement as well as low hardware utilization in accelerator designs. Separable
convolution for CNNs was introduced the first time in mobilenets [33, 34] to
reduce the number of multiply and accumulates (MACs). In addition, many
modern CNNs use kernels of size 3 × 3 to promote ease of accelerator design with
high hardware utilization and throughput.
Design of an efficient dataflow for scheduling data into the accelerator is equally
important. An inefficient dataflow results in reduced hardware utilization which
causes a decrease in throughput. Dataflow should also promote the reusability
of data since, in most cases, the same kernels are being applied on the entire
input feature map. It has been shown previously that the movement of data
to/from double data rate (DDR) memory is 200× more costly in terms of energy
consumption than a standard MAC operation [36]. Thus, the dataflow design
should not only optimize the throughput and area-, but also the data movement,
in order to ensure reduced energy expenditure. Log-based accelerators have
recently gained quite a lot of traction because of their simpler structure as
compared to traditional accelerators with linear processing elements (PEs).
Each PE in traditional CNN accelerator cores is essentially responsible for one
multiplication in convolution operation. Log PEs replace the bulky multiplier
cores with low cost barrel shifters without incurring a significant loss in accuracy.
We clarify that cost here primarily refers to the area cost, which is determined
by the number of LookUp Tables (LUTs) for field-programmable gate arrays
(FPGAs) and gate count for application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs).
Accelerators for Convolutional Neural Networks, First Edition.
Arslan Munir, Joonho Kong, and Mahmood Azhar Qureshi.
© 2024 The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Published 2024 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

--- Strana 120 ---
102
8 NeuroMAX: A Dense CNN Accelerator
This area cost is important because there are limited resources on-chip and thus
this area cost also translates to monetary cost of system-on-chip (SoC). Many past
approaches have designed log-based PE elements but have not exploited the low
cost and overhead of such PEs. They instead rely on already established spatial
architectures and 1D dataflows used for linear PEs. This chapter introduces
NeuroMAX, a dense CNN accelerator capable of accelerating CONV operations.
NeuroMAX accelerator core comprises 108 PEs arranged in a 6 × 3 × 6, 3D spatial
grid. The presented accelerator optimizes the most commonly used 3 × 3 and
1 × 1 kernel sizes to achieve high throughput and utilization. It can also be used
for larger kernel sizes because of its grid structure and configurable 2D dataflow.
The main contributions of this chapter are as follows:
●Design of a multithreaded, low-cost, log-based PE core. Using this core, we
generate a spatial grid of 6 × 3 × 6 = 108 PEs, capable of performing a wide
variety of convolution operations commonly used in many CNNs.
●NeuroMAX utilizes a 2D dataflow that exploits the thread-based PE design to
maximize the throughput and enhance the data reuse to minimize the off-chip
DRAM memory accesses.
●The NeuroMAX architecture is implemented in software and its performance is
compared against recent dense accelerator architectures. It is also implemented
on an FPGA to show improvement in terms of resource utilization and static
power consumption.
The remainder of this chapter is organized as follows: A summary of relevant
works in literature is presented in Section 8.1. Section 8.2 summarizes log
mapping which is utilized by NeuroMAX accelerator. Section 8.3 gives the archi-
tectural details of the NeuroMAX accelerator. Section 8.4 details the proposed
dataflow on some use cases. Section 8.5 gives the implementation results and
finally, Section 8.6 summarizes and concludes the chapter.
8.1
Related Work
Many hardware accelerators have been proposed recently and in the past. Chen
et al. [45] proposed a nonsystolic array, reconfigurable spatial architecture along
with a new dataflow scheme called row stationary to maximize the data reuse.
However, this design incurs high PE cost owing to local storage and control in PE.
It also has low hardware utilization which results in low throughput per PE. Liu
et al. [138] proposes an FPGA-based CNN accelerator with integrated depthwise
separable mode of operation. This accelerator, however, has low throughput
because of the usage of 32-bit floating point format. Bai et al. [139] proposes an
FPGA-based CNN accelerator having a dedicated matrix multiplication engine
(MME) on Arria 10 SoC. It achieves a frame rate of 266 fps, however, its MME

--- Strana 121 ---
8.2 Log Mapping
103
engine has a huge digital signal processing (DSP) cost of 1200+ DSP blocks.
Chen et al. [52] is the improved version of [45] with higher hardware utilization
and throughput. Miyashita et al. [37] introduced the concept of logarithmic data
representation for neural network accelerator designs. It also gives accuracy
comparison between linear and log quantization. Vogel et al. [38] proposes an
accelerator design using arbitrary log base. It, however, does not utilize the low
hardware overhead of the log-based PE and instead rely on linear PE arrange-
ments. Huan et al. [140] proposes a reconfigurable design for various convolution
kernels. It uses a propagated input data flow scheme but incurs high latency
and low hardware utilization. Jo et al. [141] proposes a rescheduled dataflow for
convolution to optimize the energy efficiency. Chang and Chang [142] proposes
a vectorwise accelerator architecture with the goal of maximizing the hardware
utilization. It supports various kernel sizes from 1 × 1 to 5 × 5.
Although some of the recent designs achieve high hardware utilization, they
are not able to increase the peak throughput per PE count beyond unity owing
to the use of single core, linear PEs with high area cost. This chapter overcomes
the limitations of prior works by leveraging log PEs with multiple low cost threads
within each log PE, and designing a 2D dataflow which promises high throughput
by exploiting multilevel parallelism.
8.2
Log Mapping
Log mapping or log quantization maps an input value x to a logarithmically
quantized value x′. Many trained neural nets have weights w and input activa-
tions a which are nonuniformly distributed. Mapping these 32-bit floating-point
(fp32), nonuniformly distributed values over fixed-point, linearly quantized
values introduces a significant amount of quantization noise for small bit width.
Most hardware platforms use fixed-point arithmetic for data manipulation where
the fixed point number is represented in signed Qm.n format. Here, m represents
the integer part whereas n represents the fractional part. The range of values
which can be represented are rangelin = [−2m−1, 2m−1 −𝜖] where, 𝜖= 2−n, is the
step size.
A linear quantizer rounds the fp32 value to the nearest multiple of 𝜖and then
clips it as follows:
xq = clip
[(
round
(x
𝜖
))
⋅𝜖, −2m−1, 2m−1 −𝜖
]
(8.1)
where,
clip(x, min, max) =
⎧
⎪
⎨
⎪⎩
max,
x ≥max
x,
min < x < max
min,
otherwise
(8.2)

--- Strana 122 ---
104
8 NeuroMAX: A Dense CNN Accelerator
A log quantizer takes as input, x, and the quantization parameters ⟨m, n, b⟩,
where b is the logarithmic base, and produces a log-quantized value x′ as output.
The quantization process can be written as
x′ = clip [(round(logb(|x|))) , −2m−1, 2m−1 −𝜖]
(8.3)
xq =
{
0,
x = 0
sign(x) ⋅bx′,
otherwise
(8.4)
Figure 8.1 shows some of the quantization results for the first five convolution
layers of VGG16 [31] and SqueezeNet [62]. Instead of using log base-2 (log2) for
quantization, we use log base-
√
2 (log√
2) for more accurate mapping, as shown in
Figure 8.1c,f. In fact, we observe that VGG16, pretrained on ImageNet dataset, with
1.5 bits lin (VGG16)
(a)
0
0
1
2
3
4
Original
Quantized
Frequency
×105
0.1
0.2
–0.1
–0.2
5.0 bits log (VGG16)
(b)
0
0
2
6
4
8
10
Original
Quantized
Frequency
×104
0.1
0.2
–0.1
–0.2
5.1 bits log (VGG16)
(c)
0
0
5
10
15
Original
Quantized
Frequency
×104
0.1
0.2
–0.1
–0.2
1.5 bits lin (SqueezeNet)
(d)
0
Value
0
2000
3000
1000
Original
Quantized
Frequency
0.5
1.5
1
–1
–1.5
–0.5
5.0 bits log (SqueezeNet)
0
500
2000
1500
1000
Original
Quantized
Frequency
5.1 bits log (SqueezeNet)
(f)
0
Value
0
1000
1500
500
Original
Quantized
Frequency
0.5
1.5
1
–1
–1.5
–0.5
(e)
0
Value
0.5
1.5
1
–1
–1.5
–0.5
Figure 8.1
Linear vs. log quantization. (a) 1.5 bits linear vgg16 net, (b) 5.0 bits log
vgg16, (c) 5.1 bits log vgg16, (d) 1.5 bits linear squeezeNet, (e) 5.0 bits log squeezeNet,
and (f) 5.1 bits log squeezeNet.

--- Strana 123 ---
8.3 Hardware Architecture
105
fp32 data, after log√
2 quantization, has top-1 accuracy decrement by only ≈3.5%
from 67.5% to 63.8%. This is opposed to log base-2 quantization which decreases
the accuracy by ≈10%.
8.3
Hardware Architecture
8.3.1
Top-Level
Figure 8.2 shows the top-level hardware architecture of the presented Neuro-
MAX CNN accelerator on Zynq-7020 SoC. The CONV core is the accelerator
module containing a memory block, a state controller, PE grid, adder stages,
and post-processing module. The memory block contains the weight, input,
and output SRAMs with a total cumulative size of 3.8 Mb. The PE grid consists
Off-chip DDR
Memory SRAMs
(input, output,
weight)
6×3 PE
Matrix 0
6×3 PE
Matrix 1
6×3 PE
Matrix 2
6×3 PE
Matrix 3
6×3 PE
Matrix 4
6×3 PE
Matrix 5
ARM
core
DDR
controller
I/O
peripherals
Post
processing
State
controller
PE grid
(6×3×6 PEs + 6
adder net 0s)
6 adder
net 1s +
channel
accums.
AXI DMA +
interconnect
data
Params
AXI4
interconnect
PS
PL
CONV Core
Figure 8.2
NeuroMAX system architecture.

--- Strana 124 ---
106
8 NeuroMAX: A Dense CNN Accelerator
of 108 PEs arranged in a 6 × 3 × 6 3D array. Figure 8.2 also shows the internal
structure of the PE grid containing PE matrices, numbered from 0 to 5. The PE
matrices are all connected to their respective input, weight, and output SRAM
blocks. Each PE matrix processes independent channels in parallel for standard
and separable convolutions for maximizing the throughput. The outputs from the
PE matrices are provided to their respective adder nets within the PE grid. A total
of six adder net 0s are present corresponding to six PE matrices. The configuration
of these adder nets remain constant regardless of the type of convolution used or
the filter size. The output from the adder net 0 is provided to six configurable
two-stage adders whose input connections change based on the filter size and
the convolution type. The first adder stage is referred to as adder net 1, and the
second stage is the channel accumulation stage.
To perform a convolution operation, a tile of log-quantized input fmap and
weight data is loaded from the off-chip DRAM memory into the SRAMs in
the CONV core by AXI DMA and interconnect. The processor also sends the
parameter information containing the values for filter size, input width, input
height, output width, output height, and total channels to the state controller
inside the CONV core. The state controller modifies the configurable adders and
determines the dataflow to be used for the convolution operation. The linear
convolution outputs are sent to the post processing block which performs ReLU
operation and quantizes the results back into log values using pre computed
log table. These output log values are loaded into the output SRAMs and sent
back to the off-chip DRAM memory to be used for processing the next layer.
No intermediate outputs or partial sums are stored in the DRAM memory and
all the intermediate processing is done within the CONV core to minimize the
off-chip traffic.
8.3.2
PE Matrix
Figure 8.3 shows the hierarchical design of a single PE matrix (PE matrix 0) in
a bottom up view. Each PE receives a 1D vector of weight values and one input
value. It should be noted that both the input (i0′) and the weight values (w00–2
′ )
are log quantized. The output vectors from PEs are provided to the adder net 0
which generates 18 psums (o1–o18). This adder net works by summing the same
color coded values generated within a row of PEs, as shown in Figure 8.4.
Figure 8.3b shows the internal structure of a single PE element (PE0_0_0). There
are three compute cores or threads, each processing a single weight data and the
input value, and in turn, produce three outputs (p11, p12, p13). The lowest level of
the PE matrix is a thread within an individual PE, as shown in Figure 8.3a. Basic
log-based multiplication operation is performed in a single thread. Assuming we
have two log-quantized values, wq
′ and aq
′, representing the original weight (wq)

--- Strana 125 ---
thread0
6
RTL_ADD
7
w00ʹ [6:0]
w00ʹ [6]
i0ʹ [5:0]
W00ʹ [5:0]
i0ʹ [5:0]
P11[15:0]
S[6:0]
S_int[6:1]
mem[14:0]
RTL_INV
RTL_MUX
RTL_RSHIFT
RTL_MUX
RTL_SUB
S_Frac[0]
15ʹh7FFF
15ʹh5A82
15ʹd0
w00–2ʹ
w00ʹ
i0ʹ
w01ʹ
i0ʹ
w02ʹ
i0ʹ
(b)
(a)
21
6
6
16
16
16
p11
p12
p13
6
7
7
7
thread0
thread1
thread2
i0ʹ
6
PE0_0_0
w00-2ʹ
w10-2ʹ
w20-2ʹ
i0ʹ
b0ʹ
c0ʹ
i1ʹ
b1ʹ
c1ʹ
i2ʹ
b2ʹ
c2ʹ
i3ʹ
b3ʹ
c3ʹ
i4ʹ
b4ʹ
c4ʹ
i5ʹ
b5ʹ
c5ʹ
(c)
Adder
Net 0
o1
Weight SRAM0
Input
SRAM0
o2
o3
o4
o5
o6
o7
o8
o9
o10
o11
o12
o13
o14
o15
o16
o17
o18
PE0_0_0
{p11,p12,p13}
{p14,p15,p16}
{p17,p18,p19}
{p21,p22,p23}
{p24,p25,p26}
{p27,p28,p29}
{p31,p32,p33}
{p34,p35,p36}
{p37,p38,p39}
{p41,p42,p43}
{p44,p45,p46}
{p47,p48,p49}
{p51,p52,p53}
{p54,p55,p56}
{p57,p58,p59}
{p61,p62,p63}
{p67,p68,p69}
{p64,p65,p66}
PE0_1_0
PE0_2_0
PE1_0_0
PE1_1_0
PE1_2_0
PE2_0_0
PE2_1_0
PE2_2_0
PE3_0_0
PE3_1_0
PE3_2_0
PE4_0_0
PE4_1_0
PE4_2_0
PE5_0_0
PE5_1_0
PE5_2_0
Figure 8.3
(a) Compute thread, (b) collection of threads to make a PE, and (c) 6 × 3 PE matrix 0 and adder net 0.

--- Strana 126 ---
108
8 NeuroMAX: A Dense CNN Accelerator
Row0:o1 = p11 + p14 + p17  , o2 = p12 + p15 + p18  , o3 = p13 + p16 + p19
Row1:o4 = p21 + p24 + p27  , o5 = p22 + p25 + p28  , o6 = p23 + p26 + p29
Row2:o7 = p31 + p34 + p37  , o8 = p32 + p35 + p38  , o9 = p33 + p36 + p39
Row3:o10 = p41 + p44 + p47  , o11 = p42 + p45 + p48  , o12 = p43 + p46 + p49
Row4:o13 = p51 + p54 + p57  , o14 = p52 + p55 + p58  , o15 = p53 + p56 + p59
Row5:o16 = p61 + p64 + p67  , o17 = p62 + p65 + p68  , o18 = p63 + p66 + p69
Figure 8.4
Adder net 0 psum generation.
and the activation input (aq), respectively, the multiplication of these values in log
domain can be carried out as
wqaq = sign(wq) ⋅2gq
′
(8.5)
where,
g′
q = w′
q + a′
q
(8.6)
Equation (8.5) can be implemented in hardware by decomposing the exponent
into its integer and fractional part as
wqaq = sign(wq) ⋅2INT(gq
′) ⋅2FRAC(gq
′)
(8.7)
The integer part 2INT(gq
′) can be implemented by a shift operation, whereas the
fractional part can be precomputed and stored within the thread. The total number
of fractional computations depends on the total number of fractional bits (n) used.
In our case, we have n = 1 and thus store 2n = 2 values in the thread memory.
Equation (8.7) can now be rewritten as
wqaq = sign(wq) ⋅(LUT(FRAC(gq
′)) ≫¬INT((gq
′)))
(8.8)
The hardware implementation of Eq. (8.8) is shown in Figure 8.3a. Since weights
can have negative values, which is not accounted for in the log computations, we
use an additional bit to represent the log weight data with the most significant bit
w′
q[6] representing the sign of the weight before quantization. This is not required
for the input fmap values since most modern CNNs use ReLU activations which
eliminate the negative outputs.
8.4
Data Flow and Processing
The main idea behind designing an efficient dataflow is to minimize the data
movement to/from the off-chip DRAM memory. One MAC operation typically
requires three memory reads corresponding to weight, ifmap, psum, and one
memory write, corresponding to the updated psum. A neural net like AlexNet,

--- Strana 127 ---
8.4 Data Flow and Processing
109
with 724M MACs, will need ≈3000M DRAM memory accesses. Many efficient
dataflows have been presented in literature to minimize this data movement.
Some of these include output stationary, weight stationary and, row stationary [6].
Since convolution operation requires the reuse of filter weights, input, and psums,
in successive operations, the dataflows are designed to optimize the re-usability
without accessing the DRAM memory. We introduce a 2D weight broadcast
dataflow for maximizing the re-usability of the weights, input, and psums.
8.4.1
3 × 3 Convolution
Figure 8.5 shows a 3 × 3 convolution example. Here, a 12 × 6 input is convolved
with a 3 × 3 filter to produce a 10 × 4 output for stride 1 and a 6 × 3 output for
stride 2. A total of 108 bits, corresponding to the 6 × 3 input tile, are received from
the AXI4 interconnect and stored in the input SRAM. This input tile is modified
by the state controller and provided to the PE matrix in a row shifted pattern as
shown in Figure 8.6a,c for stride 1 and stride 2, respectively. We also acquire a 2D
weight array and broadcast it to the PE matrix as shown in Figure 8.6b. Figure 8.7
shows the dataflow and the operation of the PE matrix for the first 6 × 3 input tile
and the weight matrix at time stamp t = 1. The entire input tile and the 2D weight
array are loaded into the PE matrix simultaneously. Because of the multithreaded
a0
Boundary S2
=
Boundary S1
Stride 1
Stride 2
a1
a2
a3
a4
a5
a6
wa0
Va0
Va1
Va2
Va3
Va4
Va5
Va0
Va1
Va2
Va3
Va4
Va5
Va6
Va7
Va8
Va9
Va0
Vb1
Vb2
Vb3
Vb4
Vb5
Vb6
Vb7
Vb8
Vb9
Va0
Vc1
Vc2
Vc3
Vc4
Vc5
Vc6
Vc7
Vc8
Vc9
Va0
Vd1
Vd2
Vd3
Vd4
Vd5
Vd6
Vd7
Vd8
Vd9
Vb0
Vb1
Vb2
Vb3
Vb4
Vb5
Vc0
Vc1
Vc2
Vc3
Vc4
Vc5
wa1
wa2
wb0
wb1
wb2
wc0
wc1
*
wc2
a9
a10
b0
b1
b2
b3
b4
b5
b6
b9
b10
c0
c1
c2
c3
c4
c5
c6
c9
c10
d0
d1
d2
d3
d4
d5
d6
d9
d10
e0
e1
e2
e3
e4
e5
e6
e9
e10
f0
f1
f2
f3
f4
f5
f6
f9
f10
a7
a8
b7
b8
c7
c8
d7
d8
e7
e8
f7
f8
a11 b11 c11 d11 e11
f11
Figure 8.5
A convolution example with 12 × 6 input, 3 × 3 ﬁlter for stride 1 and 2.

--- Strana 128 ---
110
8 NeuroMAX: A Dense CNN Accelerator
From AXI4
to
input SRAM0
(a)
(b)
(c)
From AXI4
to
input SRAM0
From AXI4
to
weight SRAM0
6×3×6 = 108 bits 
State
controller
State
controller
State
controller
7×3×3 = 63 bits 
6×3×6 = 108 bits 
To PE matrix
 
t=1
t= 2
t= 3
t= 4
t=5
t = 6
t= 7
t= 8
t = 1
t = 1
t = 2
t= 3
t =4
t = 5
t=6
t = 9
t= 17
t= 25
t= 33
t= 41
c5b5a5...c1b1a1c0b0a0
f5e5d5...f1e1d1f0e0d0
c11b11a11...c7b7a7c6b6a6
f11e11d11...f7e7d7f6e6d6
Filt1 -> wc0-2wb0-2wa0-2
Filt7 -> wc0-2wb0-2wa0-2
Filt13 -> wc0-2wb0-2wa0-2
Filt19 -> wc0-2wb0-2wa0-2
wc0-2wb0-2wa0-2
wc0-2wb0-2wa0-2
wc0-2wb0-2wa0-2
wc0-2wb0-2wa0-2
wc0-2wb0-2wa0-2
wc0-2wb0-2wa0-2
c5b5a5...c1b1a1c0b0a0
f5e5d5...f1e1d1f0e0d0
c11b11a11...c7b7a7c6b6a6
f11e11d11...f7e7d7f6e6d6
c5b5a5...c1b1a1c0b0a0
d5c5b5...d1c1b1d0c0b0
e5d5c5...e1d1c1e0d0c0
f5e5d5...f1e1d1f0e0d0
c11b11a11...c7b7a7c6b6a6
d11c11b11...d7c7b7d6c6b6
e11d11c11...e7d7c7e6d6c6
f11e11d11...f7e7d7f6e6d6
c5b5a5...c1b1a1c0b0a0
e5d5c5...e1d1c1e0d0c0
0f5e5...0f1e10f0e0
c11b11a11...c7b7a7c6b6a6
e11d11c11...e7d7c7e6d6c6
0f11e11...0f7e70f6e6
Figure 8.6
State controller operation: (a) Input, stride 1, (b) ﬁlter weights, and (c) input,
stride 2.
PE columns
PE rows
wa0
a0
a1
a2
a3 
a4
a5
wa0-2
wa0-2
a0
*
*
wa0-2 *
wa0-2 *
wa0-2
wa0-2
*
*
a1
a2
a3
a4
a5
wb0-2
wb0-2
b0
*
*
wb0-2 *
wb0-2 *
wb0-2
wb0-2
*
*
b1
b2
b3
b4
b5
wc0-2
wc0-2
c0
*
*
wc0-2 *
wc0-2 *
wc0-2
wc0-2
*
*
c1
c2
c3
c4
c5
b0
b1
b2
b3 
b4
b5
c0
c1
c2
c3 
c4
c5
wa1 
wa2
wb0
wb1 
wb2
wc0
wc1 
wc2
*
o1,o2,o3
o4,o5,o6
o7,o8,o9
o10,o11,o12
o13,o14,o15
o16,o17,o18
Figure 8.7
2D weight broadcast dataﬂow.

--- Strana 129 ---
8.4 Data Flow and Processing
111
structure of PEs, each PE performs three multiplication operations using three
threads and the outputs are rowwise summed to generate the psums (o1–o18)
using adder net 0 (Figure 8.4). The dataflow chart and the processing of the entire
12 × 6 input is shown in Figure 8.8. The output a0wa012, in Figure 8.8, represents
the three outputs a0wa0, a0wa1, a0wa2 generated by three threads within a PE. The
adder net 0 computes the partial sum outputs (o1–o18) the same way as shown in
Figure 8.4, where p11 = a0wa0, p14 = b0wb0 and p17 = c0wc0 are the same colored
outputs along the row.
The outputs (rows 5 and 6) in Figure 8.5 for stride 1 and outputs (row 3) for
stride 2 represent the boundary outputs. The boundary condition occurs when the
filter overlaps two different columnwise input tile sectors. For clarity, we assume
that the first input tile at t = 1 is processed by the PE matrix. This corresponds
to the first six rows and the first three columns of the input. The PE matrix will
process the last rowwise input tile at t = 4 which corresponds to the first six rows
and the last three columns of the input as shown in Figure 8.6a. The input tile will
then jump to the next columnwise 6 × 3 input tile which corresponds to the last
six rows and the first three columns at t = 5 as shown in Figure 8.6a. However, it
can be seen that the row 5 and 6 in the output are dependent on the overlapping
results from the two concurrent columnwise input tile sectors (e.g., at t = 1 and
t = 5, t = 2 and t = 6 and so on). To resolve this, the three dependent psums (o13,
o17, and o16), generated from row 5 and row 6, of first columnwise tile sector of the
12 × 6 input, are passed through a variable length shift register with the maximum
length equal to the width of the input. These psums are subsequently utilized when
the next columnwise 6 × 3 input tile (a6 to a11) is being processed. Thus, the rows
1 to 4 in the output are generated during the time intervals t = 1 to t = 4, whereas
the rows 5 to 10 are generated during the time interval t = 5 to t = 8.
The output in Figure 8.5, for stride 1, is generated by alternate colored,
columnwise summation of the psums in the adder net 1 as shown in Figure 8.9a.
Figure 8.9b shows the output generation for stride 2 case. The shift registers
(VAR Len SR) for generating the boundary outputs are also shown in Figure 8.9.
It can be observed that because of the optimized dataflow, only 2 out of 18 or
11% psums require local storage as opposed to >50% psums requiring storage
(local or off-chip) in previously proposed dataflows. The throughput for the above
example is 45 OPS/cycle (total OPS/total cycles = 360/8 = 45), which results in an
83.3% overall thread utilization (45/(3 × 6 × 3))×100. We will simply use thread
utilization as hardware utilization in this context.
8.4.2
1 × 1 Convolution
1 × 1 convolutions are very popular in modern CNNs. These convolutions, along
with the depthwise separable, are replacing the normal 2-D convolutions because

--- Strana 130 ---
112
8 NeuroMAX: A Dense CNN Accelerator
t = 1
t = 2
wa0-2
c0b0a0
c1b1a1
c2b2a2
c3b3a3
c4b4a4
c5b5a5
e0d0c0
e1d1c1
e2d2c2
e3d3c3
e4d4c4
e5d5c5
d0c0b0
d1c1b1
d2c2b2
d3c3b3
d4c4b4
d5c5b5
a5wa012
a4wa012
a3wa012
a2wa012
a1wa012
a0wa012
b5wb012
b4wb012
b3wb012
b2wb012
b1wb012
b0wb012
c5wc012
c4wc012
c3wc012
c2wc012
c1wc012
c0wc012
wb0-2
wc0-2
t = 3
c5wa012
c4wa012
c3wa012
c2wa012
c1wa012
c0wa012
wa0-2
b5wa012
b4wa012
b3wa012
b2wa012
b1wa012
b0wa012
c5wb012
c4wb012
c3wb012
c2wb012
c1wb012
c0wb012
wa0-2
wb0-2
d5wc012
d4wc012
d3wc012
d2wc012
d1wc012
d0wc012
wc0-2
d5wb012
d4wb012
d3wb012
d2wb012
d1wb012
d0wb012
wb0-2
e5wc012
e4wc012
e3wc012
e2wc012
e1wc012
e0wc012
wc0-2
f0e0d0
f1e1d1
f2e2d2
f3e3d3
f4e4d4
f5e5d5
t = 4
d5wa012
d4wa012
d3wa012
d2wa012
d1wa012
d0wa012
wa0-2
e5wb012
e4wb012
e3wb012
e2wb012
e1wb012
e0wb012
wb0-2
f5wc012
f4wc012
f3wc012
f2wc012
f1wc012
f0wc012
wc0-2
c6b6a6
c7b7a7
c8b8a8
c9b9a9
c10b10a10
c11b11a11
t = 5
a6wa012
a7wa012
a8wa012
a9wa012
a10wa012
a11wa012
b6wb012
b7wb012
b8wb012
b9wb012
b10wb012
b11wb012
c6wc012
c7wc012
c8wc012
c9wc012
c10wc012
c11wc012
wa0-2
wb0-2
wc0-2
d6c6b6
d7c7b7
d8c8b8
d9c9b9
d10c10b10
d11c11b11
t = 6
b11wa012
b10wa012
b9wa012
b8wa012
b7wa012
b6wa012
wa0-2
c11wb012
c9wb012
c10wb012
c8wb012
c7wb012
c6wb012
d11wc012
d9wc012
d10wc012
d8wc012
d7wc012
d6wc012
wb0-2
wc0-2
e6d6c6
e7d7c7
e8d8c8
e9d9c9
e10d10c10
e11d11c11
t = 7
c6wa012
c7wa012
c8wa012
c9wa012
c10wa012
c11wa012
d6wb012
d7wb012
d8wb012
d9wb012
d10wb012
d11wb012
e6wc012
e7wc012
e8wc012
e9wc012
e10wc012
e11wc012
wa0-2
wb0-2
wc0-2
f6e6d6
f7e7d7
f8e8d8
f9e9d9
f10e10d10
f11e11d11
t = 8
d11wa012
d10wa012
d9wa012
d8wa012
d7wa012
d6wa012
wa0-2
e11wb012
e9wb012
e10wb012
e8wb012
e7wb012
e6wb012
f11wc012
f9wc012
f10wc012
f8wc012
f7wc012
f6wc012
wb0-2
wc0-2
Figure 8.8
Dataﬂow chart for 3 × 3 stride 1 convolution in Figure 8.5.

--- Strana 131 ---
8.4 Data Flow and Processing
113
o1
o5 o9 o4
o8 o12 o7 o11 o15 o10 o14 o18 o13
Var. len. SR
Var. len. SR
Var. len. SR
Unused
Unused
Unused
(b)
(a)
o17 o3 o16
o1
o5 o9
Va0,...,Vc0
Va3,...,Vc3
Va0,...,Vd0
Va6,...,Vd6
Va1,...,Vd1
Va7,...,Vd7
Va2,...,Vd2
Va8,...,Vd8
Va2,...,Vd2
Va8,...,Vd8
Va4,...,Vd4
Va5,...,Vd5
Va1,...,Vc1
Va4,...,Vc4
Va5,...,Vc5
Va2,...,Vc2
o7 o11 o15
o13 o17 o3
o2 o6
Figure 8.9
Adder net 1 conﬁguration: (a) Stride 1 and (b) Stride 2.
of the less number of MAC operations [33]. The 1 × 1 CONV operation convolves
1 × 1 × C × P filters with a M × N × C input to produce M × N × P outputs. Here,
C is the number of channels, P is the number of filters, M is the input width and
N is the input height.
Figure 8.10 shows a 1 × 1 CONV example where a 3 × 6 × 6 input is convolved
with 6, 1 × 1 × 6 filters to produce a 3 × 6 × 6 output. Since this convolution gener-
ates the psums by channel accumulation, the outputs from the multiple PE matri-
ces are utilized. For the example in Figure 8.10, the state controller data scheduling
for PE matrix 0 and 1 is shown in Figure 8.11. It can be seen that the first three
channels of the input are convolved with the first three channels of all the filters
in PE matrix 0, whereas the last three channels of the input are convolved with the
last three channels of all the filters in PE matrix 1. The time stamps during spe-
cific processing of input and weights in PE matrices are also shown in Figure 8.11.
It should be noted that for an input with more channels, the rest of the PE matrices
will also be used. Thus, by using the dataflow in Figure 8.11, the architecture can

--- Strana 132 ---
114
8 NeuroMAX: A Dense CNN Accelerator
CH 0 a00
a10
a20
b00
b10
b20
c00
c10
c20
d00
d10
d20
e00
e10
e20
f00 f11
f22
f22
f12
f01
e01
d01
c01
b01
a01
f02
f25
e02
d02
c02
b02
a02
f05
wa0
wb0
wc0
wf0
O5_0 O5_1 O5_2 O5_3 O5_4
O1_0 O1_1 O1_2 O1_3 O1_4 O1_5
O0_0 O0_1 O0_2 O0_3 O0_4 O0_5
O0_6 O0_7 O0_8 O0_9 O0_10 O0_11
O0_12 O0_13 O0_14 O0_15 O0_16 O0_17
O2_0 O2_1 O2_2 O2_3 O2_4 O2_5
O2_11
O2_17
O5_5
O5_11
O5_17
wf1
wc1
wb1
wa1
wf2
wc2
wb2
wa2
e05
d05
c05
b05
a05
f15
e15
d15
c15
b15
a15
f10
f20
CH 1
CH 2
CH 5
*
=
wf5
wc5
wb5
wa5
Figure 8.10
1 × 1 convolution example.
From AXI4
to
input SRAM0
To PE matrix 0
To PE matrix 1
t = 1
t = 2
t = 3
t = 4
t = 5
t = 6
From AXI4
to
weight SRAM0
From AXI4
to
input SRAM1
From AXI4
to
weight SRAM1
7×3×3 = 63 bits
7×3×3 = 63 bits
6×3×6 = 108 bits
f02f01f00...b02b01b00a02a01a00
f02f01f00...b02b01b00a02a01a00
f02f01f00...b02b01b00a02a01a00
f05f04f03...b05b04b03a05a04a03
f05f05f03...b05b04b03a05a04a03
wc2wb2wa2wc1wb1wa1wc0wb0wa0
wc5wb5wa5wc4wb4wa4wc3wb3wa3
wf2we2wd2wf1we1wd1wf0we0wd0
wf5we5wd5wf4we4wd4wf3we3wd3
wc2wb2wa2...wc0wb0wa0
wf2we2wd2...wf0we0wd0
wf2we2wd2...wf0we0wd0
wf2we2wd2...wf0we0wd0
f12f11f10...b12b11b10a12a11a10
f12f11f10...b12b11b10a12a11a10
f15f14f13...b15b14b13a15a14a13
f15f14f13...b15b14b13a15a14a13
f22f21f20...b22b21b20a22a21a20
f22f21f20...b22b21b20a22a21a20
f22f21f20...b22b21b20a22a21a20
f22f21f20...b22b21b20a22a21a20
wc2wb2wa2...wc0wb0wa0
wc2wb2wa2...wc0wb0wa0
wc5wb5wa5...wc3wb3wa3
wc5wb5wa5...wc3wb3wa3
wc5wb5wa5...wc3wb3wa3
wf5we5wd5...wf3we3wd3
wf5we5wd5...wf3we3wd3
wf5we5wd5...wf3we3wd3
f12f11f10...b12b11b10a12a11a10
f22f21f20...b22b21b20a22a21a20
f05f04f03...b05b04b03a05a04a03
f15f14f13...b15b14b13a15a14a13
f25f24f23...b25b24b23a25a24a23
6×3×6 = 108 bits
State
controller
t = 1
t = 2
t = 3
t = 4
t = 5
t = 6
Figure 8.11
State controller load operation.
process 18 channels concurrently by using the 6 PE matrices, with each PE matrix
processing 3 input and filter channels.
The dataflow chart for the PE matrix 0 for the example in Figure 8.10 is
shown in Figure 8.12. The same dataflow chart can also be generated for the PE
matrix 1. As mentioned earlier, the psums in 1 × 1 convolution are calculated
using channel-wise accumulation. The 18 outputs (o1–o18) generated by the

--- Strana 133 ---
8.4 Data Flow and Processing
115
t = 1
wa0-2
a00wa012
a01wb012
a02wc012
b00wa012
b01wb012
b02wc012
c00wa012
c01wb012
c02wc012
d00wa012
d01wb012
d02wc012
e00wa012
e01wb012
e02wc012
f00wa012
a20wa012
b20wa012
c20wa012
d20wa012
e20wa012
f20wa012
a21wb012
b21wb012
c21wb012
d21wb012
e21wb012
f21wb012
a22wc012
b22wc012
c22wc012
d22wc012
e22wc012
f22wc012
f01wb012
f02wc012
a00wa345
a01wb345
a02wc345
b00wa345
b01wb345
b02wc345
c00wa345
c02wc345
d00wa345
d01wb345
d02wc345
e00wa345
e01wb345
e02wc345
f00wa345
f01wb345
f01wc345
a10wa012
a11wb012
a12wc012
b10wa012
b11wb012
b12wc012
c10wa012
c11wb012
c12wc012
d10wa012
d11wb012
d12wc012
e10wa012
e11wb012
e12wc012
f10wa012
f11wb012
f12wc012
a00-02
b00-02
c00-02
d00-02
e00-02
f00-02
a10-12
b10-12
c10-12
d10-12
e10-12
f10-12
a20-22
b20-22
c20-22
d20-22
e20-22
f20-22
a00-02
b00-02
c00-02
d00-02
e00-02
f00-02
a10-12
b10-12
c10-12
d10-12
e10-12
f10-12
a20-22
b20-22
c20-22
d20-22
e20-22
f20-22
wb0-2
wc0-2
wa0-2
wb0-2
wc0-2
wa0-2
wb0-2
wc0-2
wa3-5
wb3-5
wc3-5
wa3-5
wb3-5
wc3-5
wa3-5
wb3-5
wc3-5
t = 2
t = 3
t = 4
t = 5
t = 6
a10wa345
a11wb345
a12wc345
b10wa345
b11wb345
b12wc345
c10wa345
c11wb345
c12wc345
d10wa345
d11wb345
d12wc345
e10wa345
e11wb345
e12wc345
f10wa345
f11wb345
f12wc345
a20wa345
a21wb345
a22wc345
b20wa345
b21wb345
b22wc345
c20wa345
c21wb345
c22wc345
d20wa345
d21wb345
d22wc345
e20wa345
e21wb345
e22wc345
f20wa345
f21wb345
f22wc345
c01wb345
Figure 8.12
Dataﬂow chart for 1 × 1 convolution in Figure 8.10.
individual PE matrices are summed in their respective adder net 1s. The input
connections for adder net 1 (AN 1_0) and the channel accumulator (CA 0)
of PE matrix 0 are shown in Figure 8.13a. Here, o10 is the psum output from
the PE matrix 0 and o15 is the psum output from the PE matrix 5. Since the
example in Figure 8.10 is small, it only requires the first two PE matrices and their
outputs, that is, only o10–180 and o11–181 are active. The output in Figure 8.10 is
generated by using all six adder net 1s and the channel accumulators as shown
in Figure 8.13b. The throughput for the above example is 108 OPS/cycle (total
OPS/total cycles = (6 × 6 × 3 × 6∕6 = 108), which results in a 100% overall thread
utilization (108/(3 × 6 × 3 × 2) × 100).

--- Strana 134 ---
116
8 NeuroMAX: A Dense CNN Accelerator
o10
o10
o35
o40
o65
o70
o95
o100
o125
o130
o155
o160
o185
Adder
Net 1_0
(AN 1_0)
Channel
Accum 0
(CA 0)
O0_0
O1_0
O2_0
t =1
t =2
t =3
t =4
t =5
t =6
AN 1_5
CA 5
AN 1_4
CA 4
AN 1_3
CA 3
AN 1_2
CA 2
AN 1_1
CA 1
AN 1_0
CA 0
reg
reg
reg
reg
(a)
(b)
reg
reg
o11 o12 o13 o14 o15 o20 o21 o22 o23 o24 o25
o30 o31 o32 o33 o34 o35
O0_0 O1_0 O2_0
O0_6 O1_6 O2_6
O0_12O1_12O2_12
O3_0 O4_0 O5_0
O3_6 O4_6 O5_6
O3_12O4_12O5_12
O0_1 O1_1 O2_1
O0_7 O1_7 O2_7
O0_13O1_13O2_13
O3_1 O4_1 O5_1
O3_7 O4_7 O5_7
O3_13O4_13O5_13
O0_2 O1_2 O2_2
O0_8 O1_8 O2_8
O0_14O1_14O2_14
O3_2 O4_2 O5_2
O3_8 O4_8 O5_8
O3_14O4_14O5_14
O0_3 O1_3 O2_3
O0_9 O1_9 O2_9
O0_15O1_15O2_15
O3_3 O4_3 O5_3
O3_9 O4_9 O5_9
O3_15O4_15O5_15
O0_4 O1_4 O2_4
O0_10 O1_10 O2_10
O0_16 O1_16 O2_16
O3_4 O4_4 O5_4
O3_10 O4_10 O5_10
O3_16 O4_16 O5_16
O0_5 O1_5 O2_5
O0_11O1_11O2_11
O0_17O1_17O2_17
O3_5 O4_5 O5_5
O3_11O4_11O5_11
O3_17O4_17O5_17
Figure 8.13
(a) Channel-wise accumulation for PE matrix 0. (b) All channel-wise
accumulations.
8.4.3
Higher-Order Convolutions
The presented NeuroMAX accelerator is designed to optimize 3 × 3 and 1 × 1
convolutions. It can, however, also be used to accelerate larger kernel sizes.
NVIDIA [150] proposed a kernel decomposition method such that an addi-
tional support for 4 × 4 and 5 × 5 filter is needed to implement any filter size.
Figure 8.14a gives an example of 5 × 5 convolution. As the size of the PE matrix
is 6 × 3, a filter of width greater than 3 and height greater than 6 needs multiple
cycles to calculate the output value. This can be seen in Figure 8.14b,c where
the last two columns of the input matrix and the weight matrix are loaded at
time stamp t = 2. Figure 8.15 shows the dataflow chart which accounts for this
configuration. The generated psums (o1–o18) are provided to the adder net 1 as

--- Strana 135 ---
8.4 Data Flow and Processing
117
From AXI4
to
input SRAM0
c5b5a5...c1b1a1c0b0a0
wc0-4wb0-4wa0-4
0we0-4wd0-4
wc0-4wb0-4wa0-4
0we0-4wd0-4
wc0-4wb0-4wa0-4
0we0-4wd0-4
0e5d5...0e1d10e0d0
000...000c6b6a6
000...0000e6d6
c5b5a5...c2b2a2c1b1a1c0b0a0
0e5d5...0e2d20e1d10e0d0
000c6b6a6c5b5a5c4b4a4c3b3a3c2b2a2
0000e6d60e5d50e4d40e3d30e2d2
wa0
a0
a1
a2
a3
*
a4
a5
b0
b1
b2
b3
b4
b5
d0
d1
d2
d3
d4
d5
e0
e1
e2
Va0
Va1
Va2
e3
=
e4
e5
c0
c1
c2
c3
c4
c5
a6
b6
d6
e6
c6
wa1
wa2
wa3
wa4
wb0
wb1
wb2
wb3
wb4
wc0
wc1
wc2
wc3
wc4
wd0
wd1
wd2
wd3
wd4
we0
we1
we2
we3
we4
6×3×6 = 108 bits
To PE matrix
7×5×3 = 105 bits
(a)
(b)
(c)
State
controller
State
controller
t = 1
t = 2
t = 3
t = 4
t = 1
t = 2
t = 3
t = 4
From AXI4
to
weight SRAM0
Figure 8.14
(a) 5 × 5 convolution example, (b) input load operation, and (c) weight load
operation.
t = 1
wa0-4
wb0-4
wc0-4
a0wa012
a1wa012
a2wa312
a3wa342
a4wa342
a5wa342
a3wa012
a4wa312
a5wa342
a6wa342
0
0
0
b0wb012
b1wb012
b2wb312
b3wb342
b4wb342
b5wb342
c0wc012
c1wc012
c2wc312
c3wc342
c4wc342
c5wc342
c0b0a0
t = 3
wa0-4
wb0-4
wc0-4
a2wa012
b3wb012
b4wb312
b5wb342
b6wb342
b2wb012
c3wc012
c4wc312
c5wc342
c6wc342
c2wc012
c2b2a2
c3b3a3
c4b4a4
c5b5a5
c6b6a6
000
t = 2
wd0-4
we0-4
0
d0wd012
d1wd012
d2wd312
d3wd342
d4wd342
d5wd342
e0we012
e1we012
e2we312
e3we342
e4we342
e5we342
0
0
0
0
0
0
0e0d0
0e1d1
0e2d2
0e3d3
0e4d4
0e5d5
t = 4
wd0-4
we0-4
0
d2wd012
d3wd012
d4wd312
d5wd342
d6wd342
0
0
e2we012
e3we012
e4we312
e5we342
e6we342
0
0
0
0
0
0
0e2d2
0e3d3
0e4d4
0e5d5
0e6d6
000
c1b1a1
c2b2a2
c3b3a3
c4b4a4
c5b5a5
Figure 8.15
Dataﬂow chart for 5 × 5 convolution in Figure 8.14a.

--- Strana 136 ---
118
8 NeuroMAX: A Dense CNN Accelerator
o1 o5 o9 o10 o14
o4 o8 o12 o13 o17
Unused
Adder
Net 1
Channel
Accum 0
reg
reg
reg
reg
reg
reg
State
controller
0
0
1
State
controller
0
0
1
t = 4-> Va2
t = 2-> Va0
t = 2-> Va1
Figure 8.16
Adder conﬁguration for 5 × 5 convolution.
shown in Figure 8.16. For this convolution, the output values are calculated as
Va0, Va2 = ((o1 + o5 + o9) + (o10 + o14))old + (o1 + o5 + o9)new
(8.9)
Va1 = ((o4 + o8 + o12) + (o13 + o17))old + (o4 + o8 + o12)new
(8.10)
In Eqs. (8.9) and (8.10), the old value corresponds to the convolution output from
the first three columns of the input and the weight matrix at t = 1, whereas the new
value corresponds to the last two columns at t = 2. The adder net 1 and the channel
accumulator configuration for this convolution is shown in Figure 8.16. A similar
configuration and dataflow chart are used for implementing a 4 × 4 convolution.
In addition to this, the CONV core can also perform pooling operation by choosing
the appropriate stride and kernel.
8.5
Implementation and Results
This section discusses the implementation of the introduced NeuroMAX accelera-
tor and presents the area cost, power consumption, performance, throughput, and
hardware utilization results. The accelerator has been implemented in software
and also on hardware (PL side of Xilinx Zynq-7020 SoC operating at 200 MHz).
Figure 8.17 shows cost comparison between our multithreaded log PE core and an
area-optimized linear multiplier core with equal output bit precision and latency.

--- Strana 137 ---
8.5 Implementation and Results
119
Lin. vs Log PE FF count
Lin. vs Log PE LUT count
Lin Log
Lin Log
Lin Log
Lin Log
200
150
100
50
0
10
14
14
14
14
25
11
16
6
20
30
(1)
(2)
46
93
135
184
128
128
128
128
(3)
(4)
Lin Log
Lin Log
Lin Log
Lin Log
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Figure 8.17
Linear vs. log PE LUT and FF cost (16-bit).
It can be seen that by choosing a thread count of 3 (shown as log (3) in Figure 8.17),
the LUT and FF cost is only 1.05× and 1.14× that of the linear PE. Thus, a total
of 108 linear PEs would be equivalent, in cost, to ≈122 multithreaded log PEs. For
fairness, we will use the cost adjusted PE number for performance comparison.
Table 8.1 shows the resource utilization of the implemented accelerator core
as well as the power consumption. Figure 8.18a–c shows the breakdown of LUT
cost, FF cost and power consumption among different modules of the acceler-
ator. The PE grid and the adder net 0 combined have the highest LUT and FF
count (81% and 91%, respectively). The postprocessing block consumes negligible
resources. The processing system (ARM core) dominates the power consumption
(57%), while the PE grid and adder net 0 have the second highest consumption
(26%) of the total.
Figure 8.19 shows layer-by-layer hardware utilization for various CNN archi-
tectures. NeuroMAX achieves an average utilization of 95%, 84%, and 86% for
VGG-16, MobileNet v1, and, ResNet-34, respectively. The dip in hardware utiliza-
tion in some layers of mobilenet and ResNet-34 is because of stride 2 convolutions
which utilize only 50% of the available PE cores. The low utilization in the first
layer of VGG16 is because it only has three channels and since each PE matrix
processes one channel, the last three PE matrices remain idle which gives an exact
utilization of 50%.
Table 8.1
Resource utilization.
Property
Accelerator
Utilization
LUTs
20,680
38%
FFs
17,207
16%
36 kB BRAMs
108
77%
Power
2.727 W
NA

--- Strana 138 ---
120
8 NeuroMAX: A Dense CNN Accelerator
AXI interconnect
4%
AXI interconnect
2%
PE Grid
+ addr net 0
91%
(a)
SRAMS
8%
AD net 1
 + accum
2%
PE grid
 + addr net 0
26%
Processing
system
57%
Static power
5%
(b)
(c)
PE Grid
 + addr net 0
81%
AD net 1
+ accum
4%
AD net 1
+ accum
3%
Controller
4%
SRAMs
10%
Figure 8.18
Breakdown of (a) LUT cost, (b) FF cost, and (c) power consumption for
NeuroMAX.
Chang and Chang [142] recently presented an accelerator, referred to as VWA,
with 1D broadcast dataflow which promises higher utilization and throughput
(GOPS) than all the previous designs. NeuroMAX is, therefore, compared against
VWA [142] in Figure 8.20 for various CNNs. VWA uses a total of 168 PE cores
and provides a utilization of 99% with throughput 166.32 GOPS, 93.4% with
throughput 156.91 GOPS, and 90.2% with throughput 151.54 GOPS for VGG16,
ResNet-34 and mobilenet, respectively. We use 122 PE cores (cost adjusted),
a 28% decrease from VWA, and provide a throughput of 307.8 GOPS, an 85%
increase, 281.8 GOPS, a 79.4% increase, and 268.92 GOPS, a 77.4% increase, for
the three CNNs, respectively. This increase in throughput with lower PE count
is attributed toward our low-cost, multithreaded PE core design and an efficient
2D dataflow. We also achieve somewhat similar hardware utilization, that is, 94%
for VGG16, 87.3% for ResNet-34, and, 83% for mobilenet. It should be noted that

--- Strana 139 ---
8.5 Implementation and Results
121
MobileNet v1
0
Layer1
Layer2
Layer3
Layer4
Layer5
Layer6
Layer7
Layer8
Layer9
Layer10
Layer11
Layer12
Layer13
Layer by Layer
Mean
20
Utilization (%)
40
60
80
100
120
(a)
VGG16
0
Layer1
Layer3
Layer5
Layer9
Layer7
Layer11
Layer13
Layer15
Layer17
Layer19
Layer21
Layer23
Layer25
Layer27
Layer by Layer
Mean
20
Utilization (%)
40
60
80
100
120
(b)
0
Layer1
Layer3
Layer5
Layer9
Layer7
Layer11
Layer13
Layer15
Layer17
Layer19
Layer21
Layer23
Layer25
Layer27
Layer29
Layer31
Layer33
Layer by Layer
Mean
20
Utilization (%)
40
60
80
100
(c)
ResNet-34
Figure 8.19
Hardware utilization of NeuroMAX for (a) VGG-16, (b) MobileNet v1, and
(c) ResNet-34.

--- Strana 140 ---
122
8 NeuroMAX: A Dense CNN Accelerator
94%
98%
166.32
307.8
168
122
350
(a)
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
PEs
PEs [18]
Utilization
Utilization [18]
Throughput
Throughput [18]
VGG-16
87.3%
93.4%
156.9
281.8
168
122
300
(b)
250
200
150
100
50
0
PEs
PEs [18]
Utilization
Utilization [18]
Throughput
Throughput [18]
RESNET-34
83%
90.2%
151.5
269
168
122
300
(c)
250
200
150
100
50
0
PEs
PEs [18]
Utilization
Utilization [18]
Throughput
Throughput [18]
MobileNetv1
Figure 8.20
PE count vs.
utilization vs. throughput
comparison of NeuroMAX
with VWA. Source: Adapted
from [142].

--- Strana 141 ---
8.5 Implementation and Results
123
Table 8.2
Comparison of NeuroMAX with previous designs.
Property
NeuroMAX
Eyeriss
[45]
Liu et al.
[138]
Vogel et al.
[38]
VWA
[142]
Technology
Zynq-7020 SoC
65 nm
Zynq-7100
Arria 10 SoC
Virtex-7
Precision (bits)
6-bit log
16-bit
32fp
16-bit
5-bit log
PE number
122 (adjusted)
168
1926
1278
256
Processing clock
(MHz)
200
200
100
133
Unreported
Peak throughput
(GOPS)
324
84
17.11
170.6
Unreported
Peak
throughput/PE
2.7 (adjusted)
0.5
0.008
0.13
Unreported
Cost
(LUTs(a),gates(b))
20.6k(a)
1176k(b)
142k(a)
66k(a)
29k(a)
Power (W)
2.72
0.278
4.083
Unreported
3.756
VWA implements the accelerator on an ASIC, whereas we use an FPGA, thus, an
accurate comparison in LUT count, FF count, and power consumption cannot
be made. It is, however, evident that the design in VWA when ported into FPGA
will have ≈31% more LUTs and FFs owing to more number of PEs used. Table 8.2
shows the comparison of our accelerator with previous state-of-the-art ASIC and
FPGA designs. We see an improved performance in terms of PE number, peak
throughput, and peak throughput/PE ratio. Only VWA has a peak throughput/PE
ratio equal to unity with average around 0.85. Our peak throughput/PE is 3 with
average around 2.7 after cost adjustment. The power comparison reveals that the
FPGA-based designs inherently consume more power compared to ASICs. We
can, however, see that NeuroMAX consumes significantly less power and has
lower cost in terms of LUT count compared to other FPGA designs. Table 8.3 gives
a layer-by-layer processing latency comparison for VGG16. Both Eyeriss [45] and
VWA [142] benchmark the latency of their accelerators on this CNN; therefore,
we also evaluate and compare NeuroMAX’s performance on VGG16. It should
be noted however that VWA uses 500 MHz processing clock in their design. For
fair comparison, we make suitable adjustments in their reported values. Our
presented NeuroMAX accelerator has 93% and 47% decrease in latency, when
compared to Eyeriss and VWA, respectively, at 200 MHz clock.

--- Strana 142 ---
124
8 NeuroMAX: A Dense CNN Accelerator
Table 8.3
VGG16 latency comparison.
Layer
NeuroMAX
Eyeriss [45]
VWA [142]
CONV1_1 (ms)
1.35
38.0
2.57
CONV1_2 (ms)
28.9
810.6
55.04
CONV2_1 (ms)
14.4
405.3
27.43
CONV2_2 (ms)
29.26
810.8
55.7
CONV3_1 (ms)
14.54
204
27.7
CONV3_2 (ms)
28.6
408.1
54.5
CONV3_3 (ms)
28.7
408.1
54.6
CONV4_1 (ms)
14.4
105.1
27.42
CONV4_2 (ms)
29
210.0
55.23
CONV4_3 (ms)
29.5
210.0
56.19
CONV5_1 (ms)
7.24
48.3
13.79
CONV5_2 (ms)
7.23
48.5
13.77
CONV5_3 (ms)
7.11
48.5
13.54
Total (ms)
240.23
3755.3
457.5
8.6
Chapter Summary
This chapter explained the architectural details and working of NeuroMAX – a
dense accelerator which leveraged multithreaded, log-based PE cores. Experi-
mental results indicated that the designed PE cores are capable of providing a
200% increase in peak throughput while only increasing the area overhead by
6%, when compared to a standard multiplier-based PE core. NeuroMAX used an
efficient 2D weight broadcast dataflow scheme which exploited the multilevel
parallelism of the processing engine and enabled hardware utilization close to
a 100%. The accelerator is capable of performing a wide variety of convolutions
including standard and separable 3 × 3 stride 1 and 2, 4 × 4, 5 × 5, and 1 × 1
depthwise, required in modern CNN architectures. Experimental results showed
that the NeuroMAX delivered a throughput increase of 77.4% and a latency
decrease of 47% with a 28% decrease in PE count against recently proposed
accelerator designs for modern CNNs. NeuroMAX also provided at least a 27%
and a 29% decrease in power consumption and LUT count, respectively, against
prior FPGA-based CNN accelerators.

--- Strana 143 ---
125
Part IV
Sparse CNN Accelerators

--- Strana 144 ---

--- Strana 145 ---
127
9
Contemporary Sparse CNN Accelerators
This chapter provides background on sparse convolutional neural network (CNN)
accelerators. Before delving into sparse CNN accelerators, this chapter first dis-
cusses why the data in CNN models are generally sparse and why considering
sparsity in hardware accelerators is important. This chapter then discusses general
approaches for designing sparse CNN accelerators. Since the CNNs or multilayer
perceptrons (MLPs) are generally processed in the form of matrix multiplication
(MM), this chapter elaborates on the sparse matrix multiplication hardware accel-
erators. This chapter also covers recent advancements in sparse CNN accelerators.
9.1
Background of Sparsity in CNN Models
Sparsity refers to the fraction of zeros in a CNN layer’s weight and input activation
matrices. Weight sparsity is static and is introduced while pruning a network
during training. Han et al. [46] developed an iterative scheme for pruning a deep
neural network while retraining the network’s accuracy. Activation sparsity is
introduced dynamically during the inference phase and is highly dependent on
the input being processed. This sparsity occurs mostly because of the rectified
linear unit (ReLU) activation function, most commonly used in many CNN
models, which convert all the negative outputs of a layer to zero.
Figure 9.1 shows the weight and activation sparsity among two of the most com-
monly used CNNs. It can be seen that the weight sparsity for AlexNet and VGG-16
can reach as high as 70% and 80%, respectively, for some layers. Activation sparsity
tends to be lower in the initial layers but rises considerably in later layers with some
layers of VGG-16 having activation sparsity as high as 85%. This goes to show that
many neural nets, though seemingly compute and memory bandwidth intensive,
are incredibly sparse with huge amounts of redundant computations. An archi-
tecture which efficiently exploits this redundancy can provide immense gains in
both performance and energy efficiency.
Accelerators for Convolutional Neural Networks, First Edition.
Arslan Munir, Joonho Kong, and Mahmood Azhar Qureshi.
© 2024 The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Published 2024 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

--- Strana 146 ---
128
9 Contemporary Sparse CNN Accelerators
100
80
60
40
conv 1
conv 2
conv 3
(a)
conv 4
Weight sparsity
Activation sparsity
conv 5
20
0
100
80
60
40
conv1_1
conv2_1
conv3_1
conv3_2
conv3_3
conv4_1
conv4_2
conv4_3
conv5_1
conv5_2
conv5_3
conv2_2
conv1_2
(b)
20
0
Weight sparsity
Activation sparsity
Figure 9.1
Sparsity in CNNs: (a) sparsity in AlexNet, (b) sparsity in VGG-16.
To represent the sparse weights or inputs various formats can be employed. As
explained in Chapter 3, entropy-based coding such as Huffman coding or arith-
metic coding can be used. In addition, run-length coding, bitmap-based coding,
two-step compression [108], or compressed sparse row (CSR) format can also be
used. As this book has already explained each of these methods in Chapters 3–5,
we omit the explanation of these formats or coding methods in this chapter.
9.2
Background of Sparse CNN Accelerators
A sparse CNN accelerator can be defined as a CNN accelerator that accepts weights
and input feature maps in the sparse format. Figure 9.2 compares sparse and dense
CNN accelerators. Although in Figure 9.2, the CSR format is shown to represent
a sparse matrix, the sparse format inputs can be any specialized format for repre-
senting the sparse matrices or tensors, such as bitmap-based format or run-length
coding which was already presented in Chapter 3.

--- Strana 147 ---
9.2 Background of Sparse CNN Accelerators
129
a
b
c
d
e
f
a
b
c
d
e
f
2
4
1
0
3
4
Non-zero value (NV)
Column index (CI)
0
1
2
3
6
6
Row pointer (RP)
Sparse format
Dense format
0
1
2
3
4
0
1
2
3
4
Row
index
Column
index
0
1
2
3
4
5
0
1
2
3
4
5
0
1
2
3
4
5
Dense CNN
accelerator
Sparse CNN
accelerator
Main
focus of
this
chapter
Figure 9.2
The comparison between the dense and sparse CNN accelerators. We have
shown the CSR format as an example of the sparse format though other sparse format
such as bitmap-based compression can also be used for sparse CNN accelerators.
Since CNN operations can be generally performed with matrix multiplication,
we explain matrix multiplication accelerators, which can be used for CNN accel-
eration. The sparse matrix multiplication (SpMM) can be performed in typical
central processing units (CPUs) or GPUs. However, CPUs do not perform data par-
allel workloads well while they have strengths on executing the control-intensive
workloads. Although graphic processing units (GPU)s (e.g., NVIDIA V100 [150])
could be an alternative for executing the data parallel workloads, GPU cannot skip
the zero multiply and accumulations (MAC)s and only provides a rigid support for
sparsity, worsening the performance and energy efficiency. In addition, GPUs are
typically power-hungry, making them hard to be deployed in systems that have a
tight cost budget. On the other hand, systolic arrays such as Google tensor process-
ing units (TPUs) [78] have strengths in executing matrix multiplications. However,
the systolic arrays, which are explained in Chapter 6 of this book, cannot also
skip the zero MACs due to their fixed dataflow. Thus, a specialized accelerator for
SpMM will be a key component for performance and power efficiency of modern
computer systems.
For efficient SpMM, there are two traditional and well-known approaches:
inner-product and outer-product. For explanation of the inner-product and the
outer-product, we assume that we perform the matrix multiplication A × B = C.
The dimensions of matrices A, B, and C are M × N, N × K, and M × K, respectively.
The inner-product approach performs the dot product between each row of A and
each column of B. As shown in Figure 9.3, a dot product is performed for each
row vector u in A and each column vector v in B to generate each scalar element

--- Strana 148 ---
130
9 Contemporary Sparse CNN Accelerators
u0 v0
u0
u0
…
Scalar elements
N × K
M × N
…
M × K
Scalar
elements
v0
v1
uM–1 vK–1
u0 v1
uM–1
vK–1
Figure 9.3
Inner product-based matrix multiplication.
in the matrix C. The outer-product approach performs the outer product between
each column of A and each row of B. As shown in Figure 9.4, an outer-product
between the two vectors is performed for each column vector u in A and each row
vector v in B to generate N × N partial sum matrices with the dimension M × K.
Generation of partial sum matrices can be better understood and visualized by
considering the dimensions of vector u and v. The vector u in A is of dimension
M × 1 and the vector v in B is of dimension 1 × K, so when we multiply the vector
u with the vector v, we get a matrix of dimension M × K, which is a partial sum
matrix in the context of original matrix multiplication of matrices A and B. To
generate the matrix C of dimension M × K, all the partial sum matrices are added.
For sparse matrix multiplication, to remove the MAC operations with zero ele-
ments, the inner-product must match the column indices of the nonzero elements
in the row vector of the matrix A and row indices of the nonzero elements in the
column vector of the matrix B during the dot-product, making the hardware design
complicated. Though the outer-product does not require the index matching, par-
tial results from the cross-product require a large on-chip memory to minimize
the amount of data transfer between the accelerator and the off-chip memory.
In addition, in the cases of inner-product and outer-product, accessing the col-
umn of the matrices could be difficult for exploiting the locality. In order to fully
exploit the locality from the matrix column, the matrix (i.e., B in the inner-product
and A in the outer-product) should be stored in a transposed format, eventually
causing the burden of transposing operations. To overcome the drawbacks of the
inner- and outer-product, one can utilize a row-wise product-based approach as an

--- Strana 149 ---
9.3 Recent Advancements in Sparse CNN Accelerators
131
…
…
u0 v0
u1 v0
uN–1 vN–1
u0
u1
uN–1
N × K
M × K psum
M × N
N × N
matrices
v0
v0
vN–1
Figure 9.4
Outer product-based matrix multiplication.
alternative. The main advantages of the row-wise product matrix multiplication
can be summarized as follows: First, it does not need to perform index match-
ing. Second, it does not require a huge size of on-chip memory which is necessary
for storing the partial results. Third, it does not require columnwise access to the
operand matrices, making it advantageous to exploit the locality.
Figure 9.5 briefly describes generic matrix multiplication hardware archi-
tectures for (i) inner product-based, and (ii) outer product-based matrix
multiplications. Before multiplication, the inner-product-based architecture per-
forms index matching for removal of the ineffectual operations (i.e., multiplying
with zero-valued operand). Nonzero index-matched values are multiplied and
accumulated for generating an element1 in the output matrix. The outer product
requires multicasting of the operands in a certain column in the matrix A to the
operands in a certain row in the matrix B. After performing the multiplications,
the matrix merger generates a partial matrix (or multiple partial matrices) by
accumulating the partial matrices.
9.3
Recent Advancements in Sparse CNN Accelerators
As the SpMM is frequently used in a wide variety of the emerging applications,
many SpMM hardware architectures have been recently introduced. One of
1 If we have multiple multiplier hardware, we can also generate multiple elements in parallel.

--- Strana 150 ---
132
9 Contemporary Sparse CNN Accelerators
(a)
Multiplier
Multiplier
Multiplier
Multiplier
Index
match
Adder
tree
Input w/
metadata
Element-
wise
partial
sum
Multi
cast
Matrix
merge
Input w/
metadata
Partial
matrix
Multiplier
Multiplier
Multiplier
Multiplier
(b)
Figure 9.5
The comparison between the inner product-based and outer product-based
matrix multiplication (MM) architecture. (a) Inner product-based MM architecture and (b)
outer product-based MM architecture.
the most well-known and intuitive approaches for matrix multiplication is an
inner-product approach. In [150], Gondimalla et al. have introduced SparTen
architecture, which utilizes an inner-product based approach. They have intro-
duced an efficient inner-join with bitmask (to mark nonzero element positions)
which eventually are ANDed to identify ineffectual operations. They have also
introduced a sorting-based greedy load balancing technique for the processing ele-
ments (PEs). Qin et al. [152] have also proposed an inner-product based hardware
accelerator architecture, which they named as SIGMA. They have introduced
a dot product engine (a.k.a., Flex-DPE) that exploits tree-based topology and
forward adder network in order to support flexible interconnect. Their proposed
architecture also utilizes a bitmap-based format as a compressed data format.
However, only loaded operand matrix is represented by the compressed format
while the streaming matrix is represented by a dense format (i.e., including both
zero and non-zero elements). These inner-product based approaches inherently
require index matching (or inner-join), which is not desirable for cost-efficient
hardware design and implementation.
To remove the complex index matching process, several outer-product based
approaches have been introduced. Zhang et al. have proposed SpArch [153]
that utilizes the outer-product approach for sparse matrix multiplication. For
compressed data format, SpArch utilizes condensed matrix representation that
compacts non-zero elements in a row. SpArch also utilizes Huffman tree-based

--- Strana 151 ---
9.4 Chapter Summary
133
scheduler, which helps efficiently use memory bandwidth. When scheduling
the partial result matrix generation during the outer-product, SpArch produces
partial result matrices that have less nonzero elements earlier than those that
have more nonzero elements. As the condensed format of the matrices with less
nonzero elements will use less memory capacity, it enables an efficient use (i.e.,
occupying less capacity in the memory to store the partial result matrices for a
longer time) of the memory and reduces memory bandwidth requirement. Hojabr
et al. have proposed SPAGHETTI [154], which also utilizes the outer-product
approach. SPAGHETTI uses different compressed formats for input matrices
(CSR and compressed sparse column for each operand matrix) and output matrix
(COO: coordinate format). Since the COO format is not a sorted format (i.e.,
the coordinates and values are not sorted in a format of row- or column-major
order), it is hard to be utilized in an in situ manner. These outer-product based
approaches typically require a large storage for partial result matrices.
In order to complement the disadvantages of the inner- and outer-product-based
approaches, several row-wise product-based approaches have also been pro-
posed. Srivastava et al. have proposed MatRaptor [155], which is a row-wise
product-based approach with a new compressed format, channel cyclic sparse
row (C2SR). Exploiting that the multiplications for each row of the matrix A can
be performed in parallel, MatRaptor carries out row-wise multiplication followed
by sort and accumulation with the primary and helper queues. Similarly, in [156],
another row-wise product-based approach has been introduced by Zhang et al.,
which they named as Gamma. The approach by Zhang et al. also exploits the
row-level parallelism while it also employs Fiber cache, a specialized memory
structure to store nonzero elements and their coordinates. In [102], Lee et al.
have proposed a row-wise product-based matrix multiplication accelerator with
optimal load balancing. The proposed design in [102] exploits the CSR format
which is widely used for representing SpMM. The hardware accelerator performs
the matrix multiplication operations with CSR-formatted operand matrices,
generating the CSR-formatted output matrix. The load balancing technique
proposed in [102] leads to better parallelism between the PEs. The technique
considers the amount of operations assigned to each PE so that the execution
time of each PE is as close as possible. In Chapters 10–12, we introduce several
sparse CNN or SpMM accelerators.
9.4
Chapter Summary
This chapter explored the sparsity characteristics in CNN models and also
defined sparse CNN accelerators. The chapter further provided background
of sparse CNN accelerators and highlighted recent advancements in sparse

--- Strana 152 ---
134
9 Contemporary Sparse CNN Accelerators
CNN accelerators. In Chapters 10–12, this book explores different sparse CNN
accelerators. Chapter 10 discusses a sparse CNN accelerator that leverages in
situ decompression and acceleration for compressed sparse input feature maps
(IFMs) [108]. Chapter 11 and Chapter 12 discuss Sparse-PE [157] and Phantom
[158], respectively, which are two sparse CNN accelerators.

--- Strana 153 ---
135
10
CNN Accelerator for In Situ Decompression and
Convolution of Sparse Input Feature Maps
In this chapter, an accelerator architecture that efficiently performs convolution
operations with the two-step compressed data format (introduced in Chapter 4) is
introduced. In addition, the introduced hardware accelerator adopts three tech-
niques to further optimize the convolutional neural network (CNN) hardware
accelerator, which is introduced in Section 10.3. The presented sparse hardware
accelerator is prototyped on a field-programmable gate array-system-on-chip
(FPGA-SoC). Please note that the sparse CNN acceleration technique discussed
in this chapter is based on lossless compression of input feature maps (IFM)s,
meaning that there is no accuracy loss by adopting the presented technique.
10.1
Overview
For CNN acceleration with data transfer overhead reduction, the presented tech-
nique exploits a HW/SW codesign methodology. Figure 10.1 shows an overall flow
of the presented CNN acceleration technique for sparse input feature maps (IFMs).
On the software side, the noncompressed IFM is converted into the compressed
format by using the compression technique presented in Chapter 4 before it is
sent to the on-chip memory in the hardware accelerator via direct memory access
(DMA). The weight data are not compressed and just sent to the hardware acceler-
ator. On the hardware side, the presented CNN accelerator performs convolution
layer operations with the weight and compressed IFMs. Sections 10.2 and 10.3
present how convolution operations are performed in the hardware accelerator
with the compressed IFMs.
10.2
Hardware Design Overview
Since the presented acceleration technique compresses the IFMs, it is crucial
to efficiently perform convolution operations with the compressed data format.
Accelerators for Convolutional Neural Networks, First Edition.
Arslan Munir, Joonho Kong, and Mahmood Azhar Qureshi.
© 2024 The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Published 2024 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

--- Strana 154 ---
136
10 CNN Accelerator for In Situ Decompression and Convolution of Sparse Input Feature Maps
Input feature maps
(IFMs)
Weight (filters)
Bias
IFM
compression
Software
Accelerator
Output feature maps
(OFMs)
Compressed
IFMs
Hardware
Figure 10.1
The execution ﬂow of the presented acceleration technique.
The presented hardware accelerator performs convolution operations with only
non-zero elements (NZE)s and their location information (extracted from Indices
and Count_table) and avoids the multiply-accumulate (MAC) operations with
the zero operands,1 eventually resulting in performance and energy benefits
proportional to the degree of input sparsity. Figure 10.2 describes the overall
execution flow of the introduced hardware accelerator.
The first part of the introduced hardware accelerator is searching and weight
matching. It brings the compressed IFMs (nonzero elements) with metadata
(indices and count_table) and store them in on-chip memory in the accelerator
( 1⃝in Figure 10.2). Firstly, it brings NZEs to the nonzero element buffer before
performing the MAC operations ( 2⃝in Figure 10.2). To perform MAC operations
with sparse inputs, it is crucial to align the weights with the NZEs to be multiplied,
which is done in the Nonzero alignment logic. In the Nonzero alignment logic
( 3⃝in Figure 10.2), there are filter alignment logic and filter offset buffer. Filter
alignment logic ( 4⃝in Figures 10.2 and 10.3) finds the offset of the weights in the
filter which will be multiplied with nonzero IFM elements. Figure 10.3 shows a
detailed operation of the filter alignment logic. To perform index matching, it first
restores the original IFM index in the 1D vector format by using the Indices and
1 Though we compute the MAC operations with only NZEs, it does not hurt accuracy as
compared to the case without the presented compression and acceleration technique because
MAC operations with the zero values are ineffectual (i.e., N × 0 = 0).

--- Strana 155 ---
Non-zero element buffer
Weight loading
Searching and weight matching
MAC operation
Non-zero elements
Indices
Count_table
Filter offset buffer
filter 0
filter 1
filter 15
Filter buffer 0
Filter buffer 1
Filter buffer 15
OFM channel 0
PE0
OFM channel 1
OFM channel 15
Non-zero alignment logic
Filter alignment logic
0
46
72
105
168
206
…
…
100
254
200
168
9
…
0
255
108
31
…
10
8
0
…
5
3
9
2
7
…
9
7
6
8
…
3
9
1
1
9
3
4
8
7
2
5
0
5
7
9
14
21
22
24
1
9
7
8
2
3
6
4
1
2
7
4
5
1
4
1
2 2 6
8 1 7
9 3 3
3 6 9
4 1 7
2 5 5
6 1 1
8 7 4
7 2 7
6 5 5
4 1 6
2 3 3
1 1 4
5 1 7
6 6 6
4 7 7
7 1 1
6 5 6
7 7 8
3 1 2
3 4 6
7 6 6
1 5 1
5 2 2
9 4 4
1 2 9
1 3 4
X
+
Buffer
X
+
Buffer
PE1
X
+
Buffer
PE15
Bias Add.
and ReLU
Bias Add.
and ReLU
Bias Add.
and ReLU
1
3
1
3
3
7
9
9
…
…
…
…
…
1
3
4
5
2
6
6
6
7
7
7
Figure 10.2
Overall architecture of the presented CNN accelerator.

--- Strana 156 ---
Filter offset buffer
46
72
105
168
206
…
Count_table
…
…
10
9
…
…
31
…
10
8
0
Indices
0
5
7
9
14
21
22
24
Filter alignment logic
0
8
10
…
…
…
…
…
31
Comparator
0
1
2
1d-vector format conversion
If matched, the corresponding
filter index is stored to the filter 
offset buffer
…
filter index 0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
13 14 …
…
…
0
1
2
15
16
17
30
31
32
…
15 × 15 × 3 IFMs with 3 × 3 CONV
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
IFM element index
Filter index
481 482
480
450 451 452
465 466 467
225 226 227
240 241 242
255 256 257
225
224 254 100
225
265 266
480 510 612
15
16
17
30
31
32 225 226 227 240 241 242
…
17
17
4
5
Figure 10.3
Architecture and operations of ﬁlter alignment logic.

--- Strana 157 ---
10.2 Hardware Design Overview
139
Count_table. It then performs a comparison between the 1D vector format indices
of the NZEs and the indices of the IFM area where it will perform the convolution
operations (dark-gray shaded buffer in Figure 10.3). If there are matched indices,
it stores the filter indices to the filter offset buffer ( 5⃝in Figures 10.2 and 10.3) in a
first-in first-out (FIFO) manner.
After filling the filter offset buffer, the weights are loaded to the filter buffers
( 6⃝in Figure 10.2). The values in the filter offset buffer indicate the location of
weight values in the filter. For example, Figure 10.2 shows that the weight value
in the filter indices2 0, 5, 7, 9, 14, 21, 22, and 24 will be selected and loaded
into the filter buffers. This process of loading filter weights into filter buffers
is also depicted in weight loading part of Figure 10.2. For example, filter 0[0]
corresponds to the weight value 6 in Figure 10.2, and thus it loads 6 in the filter
buffer. The rest of the weight values are also loaded into the filter buffer in the
same manner. Please note that the filter buffer holds 16 entries in the presented
hardware design and implementation, although only eight entries are shown in
Figure 10.2. Once 16 weight values are loaded into the filter buffer, it performs
MAC operations with the aligned NZEs and the corresponding weights in the
processing elements (PEs), followed by bias addition and activation (ReLU)
( 7⃝in Figure 10.2). The output feature map (OFM) elements are also stored
in the on-chip memory. The presented hardware accelerator design exploits
output channel-level parallelism, which means each PE performs the MAC
operations for each output channel. The presented hardware accelerator design
for 32-bit floating-point precision3 uses 16 PEs though the number of PEs is also
design-dependent.
In the filter alignment logic, the storage for 1D vector format conversion may
require the nonnegligible storage overhead. Assuming that the maximum number
of NZEs is 216, we need 128KB (2B × 216) on-chip buffer to temporarily store the
converted indices for 1D vector format. It accounts for the on-chip buffer size
of 10.3% (=128 KB/1247 KB; 1247 KB is the total block random access memory
(BRAM) usage in the presented FPGA prototype with floating-point 32-bit preci-
sion support), which is not a significant overhead. To alleviate this overhead, the
counter or on-demand conversion may help reduce the on-chip buffer require-
ments of the presented design, though it should be done with further design
optimizations.
2 1D vector index is used instead of 3D tensor index in the filter. It means
Filter[z][y][x] = Filter[x+y*width+z*width*height].
3 We have also implemented 16-bit fixed-point precision-based accelerator with 32 PEs, which
is explained in Section 10.4

--- Strana 158 ---
140
10 CNN Accelerator for In Situ Decompression and Convolution of Sparse Input Feature Maps
10.3
Design Optimization Techniques Utilized in the
Hardware Accelerator
While the back-end (MAC PEs, bias addition, and activation) logic is very similar
to the conventional CNN accelerators, the front-end logic (searching and weight
matching, and weight loading) is newly introduced in the presented design.
Though the baseline (i.e., introduced in Section 10.2) hardware design can bring
a nonnegligible performance benefit, one can further optimize the front-end of
an accelerator for even better performance. The presented accelerator design
leverages three design optimization techniques for the front-end part of the
accelerator.
●Parallel Searching and Weight Matching: The most performance-critical
aspect of the presented hardware accelerator is searching and weight match-
ing that finds and aligns filter weights that will be multiplied with the NZEs
in IFMs. It needs to compare the NZE indices to the original 1D vector index
in the IFM, which is performed sequentially in the baseline design. For better
performance, it uses multiple comparison logics (16 in the presented design) so
that the searching and weight matching can be performed for multiple NZEs in
parallel.
●Input Data Reuse: N × N kernels with N>1 provide an opportunity for IFM
data reuse. For example, let us assume that it performs 3 × 3 convolution oper-
ations with the depth of 3 (i.e., 𝟑× 𝟑× 𝟑filter). For the next adjacent OFM
element, instead of searching 27 (𝟑× 𝟑× 𝟑) elements and reloading all NZEs
to the nonzero element buffer, it can search and load the data for only nine ele-
ments while the rest 18 elements are reused in the nonzero element buffer. This
is because 3 × 3 convolutions (CONV) (in general, all N × N kernels with N>1) is
carried out in a sliding window manner. Please note here that 3 × 3 CONV oper-
ation is performed with a sliding window-based operation [159], while it does
not mean that the presented hardware uses sliding window logic. Assuming the
kernel window slides in a row-major order, the IFM elements overlapped with
the second and third columns of the 3 × 3 kernel can be reused in CONV opera-
tions for the next adjacent OFM element. On the other hand, when performing
1 × 1 convolution, it does not perform the input data reuse as 1 × 1 convolution
has no opportunity for IFM data reuse in the presented design.4
●Removal of Complex Operations: Searching and weight matching require
several complex operations such as division and modulo to calculate offset or
index values. The presented hardware design replaces those complex operations
with simpler operations such as shift operations or table lookup so that the
4 For 1 × 1 CONV, since there is no overlapped IFM element when sliding the kernel window, it
cannot reuse the input data.

--- Strana 159 ---
10.4 FPGA Implementation
141
latency for searching and matching can be reduced. For removal of the complex
operations, it does not actually affect the data (e.g., NZEs), while it only reduces
the complexity of the required operations, resulting in performance improve-
ment. According to the evaluations, the removal of complex operations results
in 1.7× and 2.4× speedups for 1 × 1 and 3 × 3 CONV, respectively, as compared to
the case without the removal of complex operations, implying that the removal
of complex operations affects performance significantly.
10.4
FPGA Implementation
We implement the presented hardware accelerator and software (for compression)
in Xilinx ZCU106 FPGA-SoC platform [160], which is equipped with a quad-core
ARM Cortex-A53 CPU [161], programmable logic elements, and various hard
intellectual properties (IPs). The presented hardware accelerator is implemented
in the programmable logic part while the introduced compression algorithm is
implemented in software and executed on the CPU on-board Xilinx ZCU106
FPGA-SoC platform.
For hardware implementation, Xilinx high-level synthesis (HLS), and Vivado
design suite are used. The implemented hardware accelerator operates at 150 MHz
clock frequency. Although we have explained the compression technique based
on 32-bit floating-point elements, the presented hardware accelerator has been
implemented with two different versions of precisions, 32-bit floating-point and
16-bit fixed-point. In the resource-constrained mobile or edge platforms, the data
quantization is a common technique for efficient on-device CNN inferences.
This implementation of the presented CNN accelerator with 32-bit floating-point
and 16-bit fixed-point is expedient as many CNN hardware accelerators have
been implemented to process 16-bit fixed-point as well as 32-bit floating-point
elements for CNN inferences. Please note that the compression technique
(presented in Chapter 4) can be identically employed to both versions of the
accelerator. Furthermore, the IFM compression technique can be applied for
other quantization levels, such as 5-bit quantization or log quantization. How-
ever, in this work, we have explained the presented approach with two different
precisions (32-bit floating-point for the compression technique and accelerator
and 16-bit fixed-point for the accelerator). Depending on the CNN applications, a
system designer can choose an appropriate version of the accelerator. Due to the
reduced resource usages of the 16-bit fixed-point version of the accelerator under
the same number of PEs, we increase the number of PEs from 16 to 32 in the
16-bit fixed-point version. Table 10.1 summarizes the resource utilization of the
presented hardware accelerator’s implementation in Xilinx ZCU106. The results
in Table 10.1 correspond to the presented hardware accelerator implementation

--- Strana 160 ---
142
10 CNN Accelerator for In Situ Decompression and Convolution of Sparse Input Feature Maps
Table 10.1
FPGA resource utilization of the presented hardware accelerator
implementations.
32-bit ﬂoating-point
16-bit ﬁxed-point
Available resources
BRAM 18Kb
554 (88%)
458 (73%)
624
DSP48E
136 (8%)
540 (31%)
1,728
FF
64,600 (14%)
35,458 (7%)
460,800
LUT
66,481 (29%)
132,143 (57%)
230,400
that incorporates all the optimization techniques discussed in Section 10.3. For
both versions of the accelerators, the implementation can execute both 1 × 1
CONV and 3 × 3 CONV versatility. The presented accelerator design focuses
on the cost efficiency, which means the main goal is to improve performance
per resource usage (cost). As seen from Table 10.1, the absolute amount of the
resource usage as well as usage rates of the presented implementation is very
low, meaning that the presented design and implementation are well suited for
resource-constrained systems. When comparing the 16-bit fixed-point version
to the 32-bit floating-point version, the former uses less BRAM blocks as it
uses 16-bit elements instead of 32-bit elements. However, the 16-bit fixed-point
version uses more digital signal processor (DSP)s, flip-flops (FF)s, and lookup
table (LUT)s because of the increased number of PEs as compared to the 32-bit
floating-point version.
For both the 32-bit floating-point and 16-bit fixed-point versions, the resource
utilization of 18 kb BRAM (i.e., on-chip memory) blocks is still higher than that of
the other components such as LUTs and FFs. The presented implementation uses
BRAM blocks to store the compressed IFMs, weights, and OFMs. To exploit the
parallelism between the output channels with multiple PEs, we need to maintain
as many IFMs, weights, and OFMs on-chip as possible, resulting in high resource
utilization of the BRAM blocks. While hardware resource utilization of the search-
ing and weight matching part, which is mainly composed of the LUTs and FFs, is
hardly proportional to the number of PEs (because it is shared between the PEs),
that of the other parts including BRAM blocks is linearly proportional to the num-
ber of PEs. For the best performance in the platform, we have implemented the
presented accelerator to have as many processing elements (please note that the
number of processing elements is 2N where integer N ≥0) as possible, resulting in
high BRAM block utilizations in the platform.

--- Strana 161 ---
10.5 Evaluation Results
143
10.5
Evaluation Results
Since we have prototyped the presented sparse CNN accelerator in FPGA-SoC,
direct quantitative comparison with many of the previously proposed CNN
accelerators would be infeasible as some of the previously proposed CNN accel-
erators have been implemented in application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC)
[44, 45], which hugely differs from an FPGA in terms of the degree of logic
optimizations, or some of the accelerators have been evaluated in simulators
[162, 163]. Hence, Section 10.5.1 compare the introduced technique to CPU-based
(i.e., fully software-based with 1.2 GHz clock frequency) CNN inference with
Darknet framework [143] (by only comparing CONV layer execution time) with
a single-core execution. Though the ZCU106 platform has quad-core Cortex-A53
CPU, the reason why we assume a single-core CPU execution as a baseline is that
the main target for the presented technique is a resource-constrained system.
For example, the resource-constrained edge devices (e.g., IoT devices) often
use a single-core CPU due to resource and power constraint (e.g., Raspberry Pi
Zero [164] still uses a single-core CPU, ARM1176 series CPU [165]). We have
compiled the software code for two different versions: without and with single
instruction multiple data (SIMD) vector instruction supports for both baseline
and the presented acceleration technique. Section 10.5.2 provides quantitative
comparison results of the presented hardware accelerator implementation as
compared to the previous FPGA-based hardware accelerators.
For benchmarks, six convolution layers from SqueezeNet [62] have been
selected: CONV layers 15, 17, 26, 28, 41, and 43. Table 10.2 summarizes the
configurations of the convolution layers used for the evaluation. When executing
the selected six layers, all the data (input, output, and weight) required for
processing a single CONV layer can be fit into the accelerator on-chip memory
(i.e., BRAM in the FPGA-SoC). Though we run the experiments with the selected
six layers, we believe that it does not hurt the generality of the evaluation. For the
layers in which all the data cannot be fit into the accelerator on-chip memory, we
can perform the accelerator execution along with the DMA data transfer multiple
times. In this case, performance can be easily estimated by adding the results of
accelerator execution time and DMA data transfer time obtained from executing
the accelerator and DMA transfer multiple times. For IFMs used for the evalua-
tions, we have synthetically generated 100 random-valued IFMs for each degree of
sparsity (50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, and 90%). For evaluations of performance, energy,
and data transfer, 32-bit floating-point version of the hardware accelerator is

--- Strana 162 ---
144
10 CNN Accelerator for In Situ Decompression and Convolution of Sparse Input Feature Maps
Table 10.2
The conﬁgurations of CNN layers for evaluations.
Layer 15
Layer 17
Layer 26
Layer 28
Layer 41
Layer 43
IFM size
29 × 29 × 32
29 × 29 × 32
15 × 15 × 48
15 × 15 × 48
15 × 15 × 64
15 × 15
× 64
OFM size 29 × 29 × 128 29 × 29 × 128 15 × 15 × 192 15 × 15 × 192 15 × 15 × 256 15 × 15
× 256
Filter size 1 × 1 × 32
3 × 3 × 32
1 × 1 × 48
3 × 3 × 48
1 × 1 × 64
3 × 3
× 64
# of filters 128
128
192
192
256
256
Stride
1
1
1
1
1
1
Pad
0
1
0
1
0
1
The layers’ configurations are based on SqueezeNet implementation in Darknet Framework.
Source: Adapted from [143].
used since the baseline CNN framework [143] only supports 32-bit floating-point
precision while not supporting the 16-bit fixed-point precision [166].
10.5.1
Performance and Energy
Figure 10.4 summarizes performance comparison across various levels of IFM
sparsity. Please note that the performance is normalized to the case of CPU-based
CNN inference without the IFM compression. For fair comparison, the DMA data
transfer time (both read and write) and compression time5 are also included to the
total execution time in the case of the presented design. In the cases of executing
1 × 1 CONV and 3 × 3 CONV, the presented technique leads to better performance
by 3.4× to 5.4× and 11.3× to 22.6×, respectively, as compared to the CPU-based
execution without SIMD supports. Even when comparing with the CPU-based
execution with SIMD supports, the presented technique still leads to better perfor-
mance by 1.1× to 1.7× and 3.5× to 7.1× in the cases of 1 × 1 CONV and 3 × 3 CONV,
respectively. As demonstrated in the results, the presented acceleration technique
shows better performance (compared to the CPU-based execution) in 3 × 3 CONV
rather than 1 × 1 CONV. This is because the presented hardware design is versatile
for both 1 × 1 CONV and 3 × 3 CONV. Since 3 × 3 CONV has more complex opera-
tions compared to 1 × 1 CONV, the presented hardware design is mainly optimized
for 3 × 3 CONV rather than 1 × 1 CONV. Moreover, the hardware logic for data
5 The OFMs of the previous layer are IFMs of the current layer in CNNs, thus inherently
incorporating the recompression latency for the OFMs of the previous layer in the latency
evaluation. According to the evaluation, the compression latency on the software side occupies
only a small portion of the entire latency (3.5%–9.5% of the entire latency).

--- Strana 163 ---
10.5 Evaluation Results
145
1 × 1 CONV
w/o SIMD
w/ SIMD
Configurations
1 × 1 CONV
3 × 3 CONV
3 × 3 CONV
20
Normalized performance
25
Sparsity 50%
Sparsity 60%
15
10
5
0
Sparsity 70%
Sparsity 90%
Sparsity 80%
Figure 10.4
Performance comparison of the presented acceleration technique
normalized to the CPU-based execution w/o and w/SIMD supports.
Table 10.3
Average power results obtained from Xilinx Vivado.
Processor system (PS)
Programmable logic (PL)
Static
Dynamic
Static
Dynamic
Power (W)
0.100
2.701
0.602
1.133
reuse is only for 3 × 3 CONV, which is merely regarded as hardware overhead in
the case of 1 × 1 CONV.
The presented acceleration technique also reduces energy consumption due to
significant reduction of execution time for CNN inferences. For energy calculation,
we utilize estimated average power results (shown in Table 10.3) from Vivado tool.
The static power is always consumed as long as the system is turned on while the
dynamic power is only consumed when the component is running. Thus, in order
to obtain power consumption of the baseline (i.e., only CPU execution), we add
the dynamic and static power of the processor system (PS: CPU part) and only
static power of the programmable logic (PL: FPGA part). For energy calculation of
the baseline, we multiply average power consumption by the execution time. To
obtain the power consumption when employing the presented acceleration tech-
nique, we break down the execution into two phases: data compression and CONV
which are performed in the CPU and accelerator, respectively. When performing
the data compression, the total system power consumption is equal to an addition

--- Strana 164 ---
146
10 CNN Accelerator for In Situ Decompression and Convolution of Sparse Input Feature Maps
1 × 1 CONV
w/o SIMD
w/ SIMD
Configurations
1 × 1 CONV
3 × 3 CONV
3 × 3 CONV
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
Normalized energy consumption
1
Sparsity 50%
Sparsity 60%
0
Sparsity 70%
Sparsity 90%
Sparsity 80%
Figure 10.5
Energy comparison of the presented acceleration technique normalized to
the CPU-based execution w/o and w/SIMD supports.
of dynamic and static power of the PS and only static power of the PL (excluding
the dynamic power of the PL). On the other hand, when performing the CONV
operations in the accelerator, the total system power consumption is equal to the
addition of static power of the PS (excluding the dynamic power of the PS) and
dynamic and static power of the PL. To calculate the total energy consumption, for
each execution phase, we multiply the execution time by the total system power
consumption and aggregate the energy consumption of the two phases.
Figure 10.5 shows the energy results normalized to the CPU-based CNN
inference across various levels of IFM sparsity. As compared to the CPU-based
execution without SIMD supports, the presented technique reduces system-level
energy consumption by 83.4%–89.3% and 95.0%–97.4% in the cases of 1 × 1 CONV
and 3 × 3 CONV, respectively. When the SIMD supports in the CPU are available,
the presented technique still reduces energy consumption by 47.7%–66.9% and
84.0%–91.9% in the cases of 1 × 1 CONV and 3 × 3 CONV, respectively. As demon-
strated in the energy results, the presented technique leads to a huge energy
reduction, implying the presented technique is suitable for resource-constrained
embedded systems such as tiny Internet of things (IoT) devices.
10.5.2
Comparison with State-of-the-Art Hardware Accelerator
Implementations
We compare the two versions (32-bit floating-point and 16-bit fixed-point preci-
sion) of the presented hardware accelerator implementation with several recent

--- Strana 165 ---
10.5 Evaluation Results
147
FPGA-based CNN accelerator implementations [138, 148, 167–169]. For quantify-
ing the cost (area) efficiency, the most fair way to perform comparison would be
based on the hardware implementations of [138, 148, 167–169] under the same
or similar costs. However, it is not possible to implement the hardware designs in
[138, 148, 167, 168], and [169] to have hardware cost (or resource usages) same or
similar to the presented accelerator (i.e., our own implementations of the acceler-
ators in [138, 148, 167, 168], and [169] that have the costs similar to the presented
accelerator may distort the results due to suboptimal or different implementations
compared to those in [138, 148, 167, 168], and [169]). Thus, we introduce the met-
ric, giga operations per second per unit cost (GOPs/cost), which quantifies the
performance of the accelerator at iso-cost. We clarify that the cost here estimates
the area required for implementing the accelerator in an FPGA fabric and BRAM
blocks.
The cost is estimated based on resource usage and the number of the transistors
required for each hardware resource component. Firstly, we calculate the number
of metal-oxide-semiconductor (MOS) transistors required for implementing each
type of components. For calculation of the 18kb BRAM block, we multiply 6 (6T
SRAM cell) by the number of cells (18*1024) in the block. For FFs, we assume
that the FF is composed of two cascaded latches (SRAMs), requiring 12 transistors
for each FF. For lookup tables (LUTs), we assume 5 × 1 LUTs which are com-
monly used in the modern FPGAs. A single 5 × 1 LUT can be implemented with
32 SRAMs and 31 2 × 1 MUXes [171]. For LUT cost calculations, we only consider
the SRAM cost because SRAM cells typically occupy large area (due to the sizing
of the transistor) than 2 × 1 MUXes. Please note that excluding the 2 × 1 MUX area
is still a conservative assumption as the implementation uses the smaller number
of the LUTs (see Table 10.4). Due to the lack of the detailed design and imple-
mentation of DSPs, we omit the cost of the DSPs. For the technology-dependent
(TD) cost, we multiply the square of the process technology (T2) [171] (e.g., 16 nm,
28 nm) with the number of required MOS transistors (NTr) for each type of com-
ponents. After that, by multiplying the number of used blocks or elements in the
FPGA with T2 × NTr, we can estimate the relative cost (area) of the three differ-
ent components (i.e., BRAM blocks, FFs, and LUTs) in the FPGA. By aggregat-
ing the relative costs of the three types of the components, we can figure out the
entire relative cost of a certain accelerator implementation. Finally, we normalize
the relative cost of each implementation to that of the presented 16-bit fixed point
implementation.
As shown in Table 10.4, although the presented implementations attain lower
absolute GOPs as compared to the implementations in [138, 148, 167, 168],
and [169], the 16-bit fixed-point version of the presented hardware implemen-
tation achieves 1.9 × (on average) better technology-dependent performance
per unit cost as compared to [138, 148, 167, 168], and [169]. Similarly, 32-bit

--- Strana 166 ---
Table 10.4
Quantitative comparison of the presented hardware accelerator with the state-of-the-art designs.
Comparison
metrics
[167]
[168]
[138]
[169]
[148]
Presented
accelerator
(32-bit
ﬂoating point)
Presented
accelerator
(16-bit
ﬁxed point)
Platform
Zynq7100-based
Virtex7-based
Zynq7100-based
VC709
VC707
ZCU106
ZCU106
Process
technology
28 nm
28 nm
28 nm
28 nm
28 nm
16 nm
16 nm
Precision
16-bit fixed
32-bit float
32-bit float
32-bit float
32-bit float
32-bit float
16-bit fixed
Clock (MHz)
60
200
100
200
100
150
150
BRAM blocks
(18 Kb)
772
1,515
708
1,121
1,024
554
458
FF
107K
383K
187,146
292,016
205,704
64,600
35,458
LUT
229K
252K
142,291
192,493
186,251
66,481
132,143
DSP
128
1,123
1,926
1,032
2,240
136
540
GOPs
17.2
78.3
17.1
66.4
61.6
6.8
10.9
Power (W)
2.3
6.0
3.3
5.3
3.6
2.4
2.7
TD Relative
estimated cost
except DSP
5.23
8.83
4.32
6.59
6.07
0.98
1.00
TD GOPs/cost
3.29
8.87
3.96
10.07
10.15
6.94
10.90
Comparison with [167] is provided for FPGA-based accelerator introduced in [167]. Comparison with [168] is provided for the 32-bit floating-point
accelerator introduced in [168] because 16-bit fixed-point version accelerator in [168] has huge resource usage (e.g., LUTs and FFs usage over 460K and
640K, respectively, and a 99.6% BRAM usage in Virtex7 FPGA), which would not be suitable for resource-constrained systems. “TD” means the
technology-dependent, considering the process technology impact.
Source: Adapted from [138, 148, 167–169]

--- Strana 167 ---
10.6 Chapter Summary
149
floating-point version of the presented hardware implementation also attains
better technology-dependent performance per unit cost as compared to [138]
and [167]. On the other hand, the presented implementations use much less
DSP blocks compared to the other designs. Considering that the cost esti-
mated here excludes the cost of the DSP blocks, the actual (i.e., DSP-included)
technology-dependent cost efficiency of the presented implementations will be
much better as compared to [138, 148, 167, 168], and [169]. In summary, the
presented hardware accelerator is very suitable for resource-constrained systems
where performance under the limited hardware cost is the most important design
metric. Moreover, in terms of power consumption (obtained from Xilinx power
estimator tool [172]), Table 10.4 indicates that the presented implementations
show lower power consumption than [138, 148, 168], and [169] assuming that the
accelerators are implemented in the same FPGA device (i.e., the implementation
is technology-independent). These power results verify that the presented accel-
eration is more suitable for low-power, low-energy, and resource-constrained
systems as compared to the contemporary CNN accelerators. Though the pre-
sented accelerator shows a little higher power consumption than [167], the TD
GOPs/cost of the presented accelerator is much better than [167], leading to a
better tradeoff between cost efficiency and power consumption.
Unlike the works which only present hardware accelerators, the presented
technique also have additional benefits for end-to-end system performance
and energy (i.e., considering not only hardware but also software stack) by
using the software-based compression. The end-to-end performance and energy
comparison of the presented work with other works is not presented in Table 10.4
because the presented technique combines the software-based compression with
the tailored hardware accelerator design, whereas the other works only present
hardware accelerators. It also means end-to-end performance comparisons to
the other accelerators [138, 148, 167–169] with the same software optimizations
would result in misleading because the software optimizations would affect
differently to the various accelerators. Meanwhile, as presented in Chapter 4, the
IFM compression technique reduces memory access latency and the data size to
be transferred between the accelerator and the off-chip memory, which leads to
significant performance and energy efficiency benefits.
10.6
Chapter Summary
This chapter introduced a novel CNN accelerator that exploited sparsity in IFMs
to enhance performance, reduce energy consumption, and curtail data transfer
between the accelerator and the off-chip main memory. The introduced hardware
accelerator performed convolution layer operations with the compressed IFM

--- Strana 168 ---
150
10 CNN Accelerator for In Situ Decompression and Convolution of Sparse Input Feature Maps
engendering performance improvement and energy reduction. The discussed
sparse CNN accelerator was implemented on an FPGA-SoC platform (Xilinx
ZCU106). Evaluation results from the prototype implementation demonstrated
that the presented technique improved performance by 1.1× to 22.6× depending
on the degree of the sparsity and filter size as compared to the CPU-based
convolution layer execution. In terms of energy, the presented technique led
to 47.7%–97.4% energy reduction as compared to the CPU-based execution.
Moreover, the presented hardware accelerator design attained 1.9× (on average)
better cost efficiency with less or comparable power consumption as compared
to several state-of-the-art CNN accelerator designs. Results verified the suitability
of the presented accelerator for resource-constrained artificial intelligence (AI)
systems such as intelligent embedded and Internet of things (IoT) devices that
require performance- and energy-efficient CNN inference.

--- Strana 169 ---
151
11
Sparse-PE: A Sparse CNN Accelerator
High-accuracy convolutional neural network (CNN) models [30–32] proposed in
recent years have further strengthened the notion of employing CNNs for various
vision-based AI applications. These CNN models require massive amounts of
convolution operations over a series of network layers to perform a classification
task during the inference phase. These tremendous number of computations
(typically in tens of millions) present a huge challenge for the devices employing
these CNN models. In addition, because of the large number of network layers
and varying layer dimensions, the massive CNN model cannot be stored in the
on-chip memory of the device, and, therefore, requires off-chip dynamic random
access memory (DRAM) which presents high DRAM access cost. To put this in
perspective, the energy cost per fetch for 32b coefficients in an off-chip LPDDR2
DRAM is about 640 pJ, which is about 6400× the energy cost of a 32b integer
ADD operation [36]. The energy cost from just the DRAM accesses would be well
beyond the limitations of an embedded mobile device employing the CNN.
Various techniques have been developed to address the compute and memory
bandwidth issues of a neural network accelerator, running a CNN. Mobilenets
[33, 34] were developed to reduce the total number of computations by splitting
a regular convolution operation into separable convolutions (depthwise and
pointwise), without incurring a loss in accuracy. Another widely used approach
for decreasing the model size is the reduction in precision of both weights and
activations using various quantization strategies [37–39]. This again does not
result in a significant loss in accuracy and reduces the model size by a considerable
amount. Hardware implementations such as Envision [40], NeuroMAX [96],
UNPU [41], and Stripes [42] show how reduced bit precision, and quantization,
translates into increased throughput and savings in energy.
Nonlinear activation functions [6], in addition to deep layers, are one of the key
characteristics that improve the accuracy of a CNN model. Typically, nonlinearity
is added by incorporating activation functions, the most common being the
rectified linear unit (ReLU) [6]. The ReLU converts all negative values in a
Accelerators for Convolutional Neural Networks, First Edition.
Arslan Munir, Joonho Kong, and Mahmood Azhar Qureshi.
© 2024 The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Published 2024 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

--- Strana 170 ---
152
11 Sparse-PE: A Sparse CNN Accelerator
feature map to zeros. Since the output of one layer is the input to the next layer,
many of the computations, within a layer, involve multiplication with zeros.
These feature maps containing zeros are referred to as one-sided sparse feature
maps. The multiplications resulting from this one-sided sparsity wastes compute
cycles and decreases the effective throughput and hardware utilization, thus,
reducing the overall performance of the accelerator. It also results in high-energy
cost as the transfer of zeros to/from off-chip memory is a wasted memory access.
In order to reduce the computational and memory access volume, previous works
[43–45] have exploited this one-sided sparsity and displayed some performance
improvements.
The ReLU, being one of the most commonly used activation function, converts
all negative values in a feature map to zeros, thereby, introducing the notion
of one-sided sparsity. Two-sided sparsity is introduced when, in addition to the
feature maps, the weight data also consists of zeros. Han et al. [46] presented an
iterative method of CNN compression that resulted in a two-sided sparsity, that
is, sparsity in both weights and activations, leading to an approximate 9× and
13× reduction in model size for AlexNet and VGG-16, respectively. A compute
reduction of 4–9×, depending on the model, was also observed. These compute
and memory gains, in theory, are very encouraging; however, designing an
accelerator that leverages the two-sided sparsity is quite challenging as it results
in inconsistency in data accesses and load imbalance.
Compression of deep neural network (DNN) models was introduced the first
time in [46]. Han et al. [46] iteratively pruned the connections based on parame-
ter threshold, and performed retraining to retain accuracy. This process resulted
in two-sided sparsity, i.e., sparsity in both weights and activations, which led to
approximately 9× model reduction for AlexNet, and 13× reduction for VGG-16.
It also resulted in 4–9× effective compute reduction (depending on the model).
These gains seem very promising; however, designing an accelerator architecture
to leverage them is quite challenging because of the following reasons:
(1) Data Access Inconsistency: Computation gating is one of the most
common ways by which sparsity is generally exploited. Whenever a zero in the
activation or the weight data is read, no operation is performed. This results in
energy savings but has no impact on the throughput because of the wastage of
compute cycle. Complex read logic needs to be implemented to discard the zeros,
and instead, perform effective computations on nonzero data. Some previous
works [52, 53] use sparse compression formats like compressed sparse column
(CSC) or compressed sparse row (CSR) to represent sparse data. These formats
have variable lengths and make looking ahead difficult if both the weight, and the
activation sparsity is being considered. Other than that, developing the complex
control and read logic to process these formats can be quite challenging.

--- Strana 171 ---
11 Sparse-PE: A Sparse CNN Accelerator
153
(2) Low Utilization of the Processing Element (PE) Array: Convolu-
tion operations for CNN inference are usually performed using an array of
two-dimensional PEs in a CNN accelerator. Different dataflows (input stationary,
output stationary, and row stationary) have been proposed that efficiently map the
weight data and the activation data on to the PE array to maximize the throughput
[6]. Sparsity introduces inconsistency in the scheduling of data thereby reducing
the hardware utilization. The subset of PEs provided with more sparse data have
idle times while those provided with less sparse (or more dense) data are fully
active. This bounds the throughput of the accelerator to the most active PEs, and
therefore, leads to the under utilization of the PE array.
Considering the abovementioned issues, many accelerators have been pro-
posed in the past that attempt to strike a balance between hardware resource
complexity and performance improvements. Cnvlutin [43] attempts to exploit
sparsity by skipping the computations during zero activation data. It, however,
does not avoid transfer of zeros and only skips cycles for zero-activations but
not zero-weights. This results in exploitation of only one-sided sparsity. Eyeriss
[45] only gates computations for sparse activations. Eyeriss v2 [52] attempts
to address the two-sided sparsity by using CSC format for both the activations
and weights. It, however, requires complex read logic embedded within a PE
that drastically increases the area by ∼93% when compared to the original
Eyeriss [45]. Cambricon-X [44] does not store activations in compressed format,
while Cambricon-S [173] forces regularity by employing coarse grain pruning
that affects accuracy. Even though it discards zeros during computation, it still
retrieves and stores them. EIE [53] exploits the two-sided sparsity, albeit only
in fully connected (FC) layers. EIE’s performance is equivalent to one-sided
sparsity as it discards zeros in the filter but wastes compute cycles due to being
idle. Sparse CNN (SCNN) [162] targets two-sided sparsity but suffers heavily
from inefficient microarchitecture and systematic load imbalance as explained
in [151]. It, also, can not handle nonunit stride convolutions and FC layers. To
address the complexity associated with the CSC compression format, SparTen
[151] uses sparse bit mask to represent the location of zeros and nonzero data
values. SparTen, however, needs an offline load balancing strategy, which it refers
to as Greedy Balancing, to address the systematic load imbalance. The balancing
is performed based on the filter density using either a software-only approach
(GB-S), or a software-hardware hybrid (GB-H). This form of balancing adds extra
latency and complicates the synchronization of various compute threads. SparTen
also employs Permuter and Output Collector Units for the computation clusters
to merge and/or accumulate the outputs from independently running compute
units. These circuits require rather complex hardware and the complexity grows
exponentially as the number of compute units are increased. In addition, SparTen,
like SCNN, has no support for FC layers.

--- Strana 172 ---
154
11 Sparse-PE: A Sparse CNN Accelerator
This chapter introduces Sparse-PE, a high performance, multithreaded, generic
processing engine (PE) core for sparse CNN computations [157]. Unlike many
previous works, this PE design can exploit full or two-sided sparsity and can be
used for sparse computations in any layer in a typical CNN model. While the previ-
ous approaches use complex PE designs targeted toward their specific accelerator
architectures, the Sparse-PE core is generic in nature and can be used as a general
purpose, sparse dot product compute core. The main contributions in this chapter
can be summarized as follows:
●Presenting Sparse-PE, a multithreaded, high performance, processing engine
core, ideal for two-sided sparse computations. The core works by actively skip-
ping a huge number of ineffective computations (zerow × zeroa, zerow × nonzeroa,
nonzerow × zeroa) involving zeros, while only favoring effective computations
(nonzerow × nonzeroa). This is accomplished by the use of novel selection, com-
putation, and accumulation blocks to dynamically allocate maximum, nonzero
computations, on to a thread matrix inside the core to drastically improve the
hardware utilization. The presented PE core does not target a specific architec-
ture, and thus, can be modified for any accelerator design.
●Unlike previous approaches that use CSC format for their PEs, the Sparse-PE
core uses bit mask (BM) representation for sparse computations. We show that,
on average, the CSC format has 3× higher DRAM memory accesses compared
to the BM representation which directly translates into higher energy require-
ments for the CSC format.
●Developing a cycle-accurate performance simulator for an accelerator that uses
the Sparse-PE cores and show drastic performance improvement over various
recently proposed dense and sparse CNN accelerators, and high hardware
utilization over a range of sparsity levels. Experiments show that the Sparse-PE
core-based accelerator has a performance gain of 12× over a recently proposed
dense accelerator NeuroMAX (discussed in Chapter 8 of this book). For sparse
accelerators, it provides a performance gain of 4.2×, 2.38×, and 1.98× over
SCNN, Eyeriss v2, and SparTen, respectively. An register transfer level (RTL)
implementation of the core on Xilinx Z-7100 SoC is also done and a detailed
module level breakdown of the field-programmable gate array (FPGA) primi-
tives cost, static random access memory (SRAM) cost, and power consumption
of the core is shown.
The remainder of the chapter is organized as follows: Section 11.1 gives a
background on CNN sparsity and layer-by-layer sparsity associated with various
popular CNN models. Section 11.2 presents the introduced Sparse-PE core and
its inner workings. Experimental methodology, simulation results, comparisons,
and implementation cost are given in Section 11.3. Lastly, Section 11.4 concludes
this chapter.

--- Strana 173 ---
11.1 Related Work
155
11.1
Related Work
Many dense architectures have been introduced in the past for acceleration of CNN
inferences. Accelerators proposed in [39, 126, 127] optimize compute, whereas
[131, 132] optimize memory bandwidth. Quantization (linear [39, 175] and log
[37, 38]) of weights and activations provides additional benefits for memory
footprint and compute reductions. Accelerators such as NeuroMAX [96], VWA
[142], UNPU [41], and Stripes [42] show how reduction in bit precision, improved
dataflow, and quantization, increases throughput and saves energy. Another set of
accelerators [138, 139] provide efficient implementation of separable convolutions
on FPGA hardware. These, however, cannot handle regular convolution and FC
layers which are almost always a part of CNN models. Accelerators proposed in
[133, 134] use Booth encoding to avoid the use of zeros to reduce the total com-
putations. They, however, still transfer zeros to and from memory which incurs
SRAM area and energy. Block circulant matrices for weights were introduced in
CirCNN [135]. CirCNN, however, requires complex fast Fourier transform (FFT)
operations in its PE design. It also does not capture two-sided sparsity. In-memory
accelerators [136, 137] have also been presented that use analog logic design to
perform matrix multiplications within memory. Sparse multiplications, however,
cannot be performed in these accelerators as they require complex arithmetic
logic unit (ALU) and buffering logic. Analog circuits are also impacted by noise
and variations during manufacturing process which can significantly impact the
CNN model accuracy during inference.
Sparse architectures reduce the compute and memory access volume by
exploiting the zeros in activations (one-sided), or both activations and weights
(two-sided). Cnvlutin [43] and Cambricon-X [44] exploit one-sided sparsity by
ignoring zeros in weights or input maps, but not both. Cnvlutin also does not
avoid transferring of zeros and only skips cycles for activations. Tensaurus [175]
accelerates sparse and dense tensor factorizations by introducing compressed
interleaved sparse slice (CISS) dataflow. It, however, only supports one-sided
sparsity. Recent sparse general matrix multiplication (GEMM) (SpGEMM) accel-
erators [152, 153, 155, 176, 177] target generalized sparse-matrix, sparse-matrix
multiplications. Sigma [152] and ExTensor [176] use inner-product (output
stationary) dataflow for sparse matrix multiplications. Inner product, however,
is inefficient for highly sparse matrices because every element of the rows and
the columns must be traversed even though there are less effectual computations
(nonzero × nonzero). This leads to a significant amount of wasted computations.
SpArch [153] and OuterSPACE [177] use outer-product (or input stationary)
dataflow to avoid the inefficiencies associated with the traversals inherent in
the inner-product dataflow. Outer-product, however, gives poor output reuse
as the partial outputs generated are much more than the final outputs causing

--- Strana 174 ---
156
11 Sparse-PE: A Sparse CNN Accelerator
significant memory traffic. Finally, MatRaptor introduces a modified version
of the CSR format referred to as channel cyclic sparse row (C2SR) for better
reuse and memory efficiency but requires complex encoding for output matrices.
Eyeriss v2 [52] uses the CSC format for both weights and activations to address
the two-sided sparsity. It, however, suffers from systematic load imbalance due to
variations in the density of the sparse matrices. The PE design of Eyeriss v2 also
requires complex buffering logic that drastically increases the area by ∼93% when
compared to the original Eyeriss [45]. EIE [53] exploits the two-sided sparsity in
FC layers and does not address the CONV layers. EIE essentially discards zeros
in weights but remains idle, thus, wasting compute cycles. Sparse CNN (SCNN)
[162] targets two-sided sparsity, but its PEs suffer from inefficient microarchitec-
ture and system-level load imbalance (also pointed out in [151]). SCNN, also, is
incapable of handling nonunit stride convolutions and FC layers. Although some
previous accelerator architectures attempt to exploit sparsity in CNNs, they do
not address the issues related to high PE cost, inefficient microarchitecture, and
dependence of PE on accelerator design. We design a multithreaded PE, referred
to as Sparse-PE, which not only addresses the issues present in the previous
designs but also can carry out general sparse dot product computations for any
application.
11.2
Sparse-PE
Figure 11.1 shows a typical convolution operation in a CNN. Here, a 3 × 8 sparse
input is convolved with a 3 × 3 sparse weight to generate a 1 × 6 output. The input
and weight matrices have sparsity of 42% and 45%, respectively. The convolution
operation can be broken down into six smaller convolution chunks (C0–C5), as
shown in Figure 11.1. Each of the nine multiplications in a single convolution
chunk are performed by a compute thread within a 3 × 3 compute thread matrix.
The multiplications in dark gray are ineffective computations which mean that
either one or both the multiplication operands are zeros, resulting in a wasted com-
putation, whereas the multiplications in black are effective. It can be seen that, on
average, 66% multiplications in a convolution chunk are ineffective (Output Spar-
sity OS = 6/9) which corresponds to an effective hardware utilization of only 33%.
This represents a significant loss in computational efficiency as most of the com-
pute cycles are wasted on ineffective computations. The Sparse-PE core addresses
this issue and increases the hardware utilization, consequently the throughput,
by minimizing the total number of ineffective computations performed by the
3 × 3 compute matrix. It does this by looking-ahead into the computations before-
hand and scheduling only the valid computations to minimize the total compute
cycles.

--- Strana 175 ---
11.2 Sparse-PE
157
OS
6/9
OS
6/9
OS
4/9
3×3 Conv Chunk 0 (C0)
3×3 Conv Chunk 1 (C1)
3×3 Conv Chunk 2 (C2)
O0
O1
O2
O0
wa0
a0
c0
c1
b1
b2
0
0
0
0
d2
e2
d0
e0
f0
g0
h0
h1
=
a2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
*
0
wb0 wc0
wb2 wc2
O1
O2
O3 O4
O5
0*0
0*0
0*0
0*0
0*0
b1*0
b1*0
c1*0
c1*0
c1*0
c2*0
a2*0
b2*0
0*wb2
0*wb0
a0*wa0
0*wa0
c0*wc0
c0*wb0
c0*wa0
d0*wc0
d0*wb0
e0*wc0
d2*wc2
d2*wb2
e2*wc2
b2*wb2
OS
5/9
OS
6/9
OS
6/9
3×3 Conv Chunk 3 (C3)
3×3 Conv Chunk 4 (C4)
3×3 Conv Chunk 5 (C5)
O3
O4
O5
0*0
0*0
h1*0
0*0
0*0
0*0
0*0
0*0
0*0
0*0
0*wc2
d2*0
e2*0
0*wb2
e0*wb0
d0*wa0
e0*wa0
f0*wc0
f0*wb0
f0*wa0
g0*wc0
g0*wb0
h0*wc0
0*wc2
0*wb2
0*wc2
e2*wb2
Figure 11.1
Dense convolutions.
BM
input
Computation
(CM)
Accumulation
(AM)
BM
output
Sparse-PE
Data
output
Data input
select_matrices
Selection
(SL)
Figure 11.2
Sparse-PE architecture.
Figure 11.2 shows the high-level block diagram of the Sparse-PE core. The core
takes the binary mask (BM) and data input and performs sparse computations to
generate output data and binary mask. The Sparse-PE core consists of three main
components: Selection (SL), Computation (CM), and Accumulation (AM). The
SL block uses the sparse binary masks of input data/feature maps and weights
to perform selection of valid computations (nonzerow × nonzeroa). These valid
computations are represented by a set of binary matrices referred to as select
matrices. The CM block uses the select matrices to map the sparse input and
weight data on to a 3 × 3 matrix of compute threads. The mapping is performed
in such a way as to maximize the utilization of individual compute threads.
The AM block accumulates the CM outputs to produce valid output results. The
output sparse binary mask (BM) is also generated which will be used for the next
CNN layer.

--- Strana 176 ---
158
11 Sparse-PE: A Sparse CNN Accelerator
11.2.1
Sparse Binary Mask
Many previous approaches use compressed sparse row (CSR) or column (CSC) for-
mats to represent sparse data [43, 44, 53]. We, instead, use a binary representation
referred to as sparse BM for representing both weights and activations. The BM
representation provides a simplistic, and a more convenient method for represent-
ing the unstored zero data and the stored, nonzero data. Unlike the CSR/CSC for-
mats, this representation does not require storage of count and data pointers which
significantly decrease the memory footprint of the BM representation. Figure 11.3
shows the dense, BM and CSR format representation of the 3 × 3 weight matrix
and the 3 × 8 input data/feature map given in Figure 11.1. In the dense represen-
tation, both the zero and nonzero data is stored in the memory along with the
indices, as shown in Figure 11.3a. Figure 11.3b shows the equivalent BM repre-
sentation where only the nonzero data is stored. The BM representation represents
nonzero (stored) data with the binary 1, and zero (unstored) data with the binary 0.
Finally, Figure 11.3c shows the CSR format representation, where the relative loca-
tions of the nonzero data are represented by the row and col pointers.
To process the input sparse data, the Sparse-PE core is provided the BM and the
associated data in the form of chunks for processing of a particular CNN layer.
0
*
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
0
c1
0
0
0
8
wc2
wc0
wb2
wb0
wa0
1
0
0
1
0
1
1
0
1
1
1
0
0
3
3
5
2
2
wa0
wa0
0
0
a0
7
2
10 14
3 4
5
6 7
1
2 7
0 1
3
4
a2 b1 b2 c0 c1 d0
d2
e2
e0
f0 g0 h0 h1
wb0 wc0 wb2 wc2
1
0
1
0
1
1
1
1
0
a0
a2
b1
b2
b0
c1
d0
d2
1
0
1
1
0
1
1
0
0
1
1
0
Stored non-zero
data for weight matrix
BM representation
of weight matrix
1
0
0
e2
f0
g0
h0
h1
e2
wc0
wc2
*
wb0
wb2
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
0
(b)
(a)
(c)
c0
b2
b1
a2
0
0
a0
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
Weight Vector
Weight Row Ptr
Weights Col
Input Vector
Input Row Ptr
Input Col
0
0
f0
e2
0
0
d2
e0
d0
18
19
20
21
22
23
0
h1
0
0
h0
g0
Figure 11.3
Sparse data representations (a) Indexed-based representation,
(b) BM-based representation, and (c) CSR format.

--- Strana 177 ---
11.2 Sparse-PE
159
Although, the Sparse-PE core can work on any type of convolution or FC layer,
for convenience and ease of understanding, we will show the working of the core
using the input and the weight matrix in Figure 11.1. We also assume that the
input and the weight data are 8 bits wide.
11.2.2
Selection
The convolution operation works by performing dot product between two vectors.
In a two-sided sparse CNN model, the dot product can result in four possible mul-
tiplication outputs.
(i) zeroo = zerow × zeroa
(ii) zeroo = zerow × nonzeroa
(iii) zeroo = nonzerow × zeroa
(iv) nonzeroo = nonzerow × nonzeroa
It can be seen that the only valid multiplication is the nonzeroo which results
when a nonzero weight (nonzerow) is multiplied by a nonzero input/activation
(nonzeroa). The SL block has two user-defined parameters, n and k. The main pur-
pose of the SL block is to determine k, nonzeroo computations in a set of n convolu-
tion chunks. The value of k represents the total number of multiplier threads in the
CM block. In this design, we have a 3 × 3 matrix of multipliers, making the value of
k = 9. We define n as the lookahead factor, which represents the number of convo-
lution chunks the core looks into to determine k multiplications. There are a total
of six convolution chunks (C0–C5) in the example input, as shown in Figure 11.1.
For this design, we consider the value of n to be 3. This means that during one
cycle, the core looks into k = 9 valid multiplications in a set of n = 3, 3 × 3 convo-
lution chunks. The SL block does this by using a series of n, 2k-input AND gates
followed by a selector, as shown in Figure 11.4. Figure 11.5 shows the process of
Figure 11.4
Selection (SL) block
diagram.
Weight (BMw) and Input Binary Masks (BMI)
Selector
Selection (SL)
AND1
SEL_R1
SEL_R2
SEL_R3
SEL_Rn
AND2
AND3
select_matrices
ANDn

--- Strana 178 ---
160
11 Sparse-PE: A Sparse CNN Accelerator
wa0
C0
a0
a2
b1
b2
d2
e2
c1
c0
d0
e0
0
0
0
0
0
C0
C1
C1
C2
C2
SEL_R3 = 100 1 1 1 1
0
0
c0wa0 d0wb0
d2wb2
e0wc0
e2wc2
SEL_R2 = 000 1 0 1 1
0
0
c0wb0 d0wc0
d2wc2
SEL_R1 = 1
1
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
=
=
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
=
&
1
1
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
1
1
0
0
1
1
1
0
1
1
1
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
&
&
&
0
1
1
0
1
0
1
1
1
1
1
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
1
1
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
1
0
1
1
0
1
0
1
1
0
1
1
0
1
1
1
0
1
1
0
1
0
1
1
1
1
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
00 0 1 1 0
0
0
a0wa0 b2wb0
c0wc0
0
0
0
0
*
wb0 wc0
wb2
wc2
Figure 11.5
Process of ANDing between the weight binary mask and the input binary
mask chunks in the SL block.
ANDing. During the first cycle, the sparse masks of the weight and n = 3 chunks of
the input matrix are loaded into the core. Bit by bit ANDing is performed between
the sparse masks of the weight and the input to generate SEL_R1, SEL_R2, and
SEL_R3, representing the ANDed output of the first, second, and third, convolu-
tion chunks, respectively. The ones in the SEL_R outputs represent the location
of valid nonzero multiplications, whereas zeros represent in-effective computa-
tions involving zero operands. To process the six convolution chunks, two cycles
are needed and the final SEL_R outputs are shown in Figure 11.6. The first cycle
generates the ANDed outputs for the first three convolution chunks (C0, C1, C2),
whereas the second cycle generates the ANDed outputs for the last three convolu-
tion chunks (C3, C4, C5).
The ANDed outputs are provided to the selector which selects the valid
multiplications in a column major format. There are a total of n selectors each
processing a particular comma-separated column. For this design, the three
columns Col0, Col1, Col2 (shown in Figure 11.6) are processed in parallel by
the three selectors. The selection process occurs iteratively in a nonlinear (or
out-of-order) fashion. The purpose of the selector is to schedule the effec-
tive computations in each of the input columns (Col0, Col1, Col2) on to the
respective columns of the multiplier matrix. Since, at any point, the maximum
number of scheduled multiplications per column can not exceed the total

--- Strana 179 ---
11.2 Sparse-PE
161
Selection
Computation
Multiplier matrix
Config bits
Mapper
L1 ADD
SEL_R1 =
SEL_R2 =
SEL_R3 =
100
000
100
001
100
101
100
101
101
,
,
,
,
,
,
1st cycle
Col0
Col1
Col2
Weight and data FIFOs
C0C1C2
SEL_R1 =
AND Network
Selector
Select
matrices
SEL_R2 =
SEL_R3 =
100
100
100
101
100
100
100
100
100
,
,
,
,
,
,
2nd cycle
C3C4C5
Figure 11.6
Selection for maximum multiplier utilization.
number of multipliers per column of the multiplication matrix, the selector
has to make sure that during any cycle the total number of selected multipli-
cations are equal to multiplier threads per column of the multiplier matrix
((k = 9)∕3 = 3) to ensure maximum hardware utilization. Since every 1 in the
input columns (Col0, Col1, Col2) represents a valid computation, the selection
algorithm works by counting the number of ones in the individual entries and
selecting the entries that maximize the utilization of the multiplier matrix.
Consider the second column (Col1) in Figure 11.6 on which the second selector
operates. The selection algorithm is shown in Figure 11.7. The selector iterates
over the first n = 3 values (val1, val2, val3) and generates three accumulation
values (accum1, accum2, accum3). # ones function calculates the total number of
ones in a particular val. The first iteration comprises of the first three values 001
(val1), 100 (val2), 101 (val3). The first value, i.e., 001 is assigned the highest priority
and the selector counts the total number of ones in this entry and stores the result,
which in this case is 1, in the init variable. It then computes the accumulator
variables (accum1, accum2, accum3) using the next two values (val2, val3). The
selector then selects the values based on whether the total number of ones in
accumulated values exceed the total number of compute threads in one column
of the thread matrix (i.e., 3). The working of the algorithm for Col1 is shown
in Figure 11.8. In the first iteration (cycle 1), the selector selects val1 and val2,
based on the algorithm in Figure 11.7. The selector generates the output (out0)
by creating a single row of the selected values. Since a total of three values were
considered, the selector replaces the last unselected value (val3) by zeros in the
out0 output. In the next iteration (cycle 2), the selector prioritizes the unselected
value (val3) from the previous cycle and repeats the same process to generate out1.
It takes a total of three cycles for the selector to process the entire input column.

--- Strana 180 ---
162
11 Sparse-PE: A Sparse CNN Accelerator
init = #ones(val1)
accum1 = init + #ones(val2)
accum2 = init + #ones(val3)
accum3 = init + #ones(val2) + #ones(val3)
if (accum3)<=k/3
select val1, val2, val3
elseif (accum1) <= k/3
select val1, val2
init = val3
elseif (accum2) <= k/3
select val1, val3
init = val2
else
select val1
init = val2
Figure 11.7
Selection algorithm employed by the Selector to maximum the utilization
of the multiplier matrix.
101
100
001
101
100
001
100
100
101
100
100
101
000
100
001
101
100
000
100
000
101
001
out0 =
out0
out1
out2
100 000
000
out1 =
100
100
101
101
100
101
101
out2 =
000
x
x
x
x
x
x
100
val2 100
val1
val1
val2
val3
val1
val2
val3
init = 2
accum1 = 3
accum2 = 3
accum3 = 3
select val1, val2
select_matrix 1
initnew   = 0
init = 2
accum1 = 4
accum2 = 3
accum3 = 5
select val1, val3
initnew   = val2
init = 1
accum1 = 2
accum2 = 3
accum3 = 4
select val1, val2
initnew   = val3
101
Cycle 3
Cycle 2
Cycle 2
Cycle 1
Col1
Cycle 1
Figure 11.8
Selection process for column 1 (Col1 in Figure 11.6) after running the
Algorithm in Figure 11.7.

--- Strana 181 ---
11.2 Sparse-PE
163
Figure 11.9
Generation of
selection matrices.
SEL_R1 =
1st
cycle
select_matrix 0
select_matrix 1
select_matrix 2
2nd
cycle
Col0
Col1
Col2
SEL_R2 =
SEL_R3 =
100
1
1
1
2
2
3
2
3
2
3
000
100
001
100
101
100
101
101
,
,
,
,
,
,
SEL_R1 =
SEL_R2 =
SEL_R3 =
100
100
100
100 000 100
100 100 100
000 000 000
001 100 000
000 100 101
101 000 100
100 101 000
100 000 101
000 100 100
101
100
100
100
100
100
,
,
,
,
,
,
At the end, a total of three select matrices are generated by the three selectors
operating in parallel, as shown in Figure 11.9.
As indicated earlier, in this design example, we have considered the value of n to
be 3. Therefore, in Figure 11.8, the selector considers three values (val1, val2, val3)
for selection in a particular cycle and uses three accumulators (accum1, accum2,
accum3 in Figure 11.7). For a higher value of n, let us say 6, the selector will con-
sider all the values in Col1 in Figure 11.8. At higher levels of sparsity, the increased
n will result in an increase in throughput as more valid, nonzero computations
will be scheduled and more invalid, zero computations will be skipped by the
core. We should also mention that increasing the value of n will also result in an
increase in the hardware resource count as more logic will be required for the selec-
tor implementation. For n > 3, (2n −2) accumulators and conditional statements
will be required by the algorithm in Figure 11.7 for the selector implementation.
Therefore, the value of n is chosen in such a way as to keep a balance between
performance and area overhead.
Figure 11.10 shows the implementation of the selection process for Col1 in
Figure 11.6. The outputs from the AND network are stored in a local SRAM
memory. On every cycle, a new value is written into the memory, and values are
read based on the priority of selection, with P1 being the higher priority. The
selector block implements the algorithm presented in Figure 11.7. After every
iteration, the read address (rd_addr) gets incremented to read the next value
in the memory and the priorities are reversed. The outputs get stored into the
selection matrix based on the row numbers. The tag bits are a crucial part of
this process since they are used by the CM and the AM block for accumulation
of data (explained in Sections 11.2.3 and 11.2.4). Whenever a particular value is

--- Strana 182 ---
164
11 Sparse-PE: A Sparse CNN Accelerator
rd_addr = 1, tag = 1, out = 001
100
rd_addr = 1, tag = 1, out =
000
000
100
= 001
select_matrix
(out0)
rd_addr = 0, tag = 0, out =
1st
cycle
rd_addr = 1, tag = 0, out = 000
100
rd_addr = 2, tag = 1, out =
101
101
100
= 000
select_matrix
(out1)
rd_addr = 1, tag = 1, out =
2nd
cycle
rd_addr = 2, tag = 1, out = 101
000
rd_addr = 2, tag = 1, out =
100
100
000
= 101
select_matrix
(out2)
rd_addr = 2, tag = 1, out =
rd_addr = 2, tag = 1, out = 000
000
rd_addr = 2, tag = 1, out =
000
rd_addr = 2, tag = 1, out =
3rd
cycle
Selector
Selector
Selector
Selector
101
2
1
0
001
100 100
100 101
100 101
101
001
100 100
100 101
101 001
011 100
001
100
1
100
1
000
1
000
1
100
1
000
1
100
1
100
1
000
1
001
1
000
0
101
1
100
1
100
1
000
1
000
0
101
1
100
1
100
1
100
1
000
1
101
1
000
0
100
1
000
0
101
1
100
1
101
101
001
100
100
P1
tags
tags
tags
P1
P1
P1
P2
P2
P2
P2
P2
P2
P2
P2
select_matrix 0
select_matrix 1
select_matrix 2
Figure 11.10
First-in ﬁrst-out (FIFO)-based selector implementation in hardware for
generating select_matrices.
not selected during a selection run, the tag bit associated with that value is reset
to 0. The selection process ends when no more values need to be read from the
memory, the read addresses for all the memories are equal, and all the tag bits
are set to 1. These conditions raise a termination flag which ends the process of
selection. The final select matrices, along with the associated tag bits for every
value are shown in Figure 11.10.
11.2.3
Computation
Figure 11.11 shows the process of computation in the CM block. The actual sparse
data and their BM representation for a particular layer is loaded into the on-chip
SRAM. Based on the BM of the input and the weight matrix, zeros are inserted
at various locations for length equalization and proper indexing, as shown in

--- Strana 183 ---
From DRAM
Zero insertion
wc2wc0wb2wb0wa0
101101001
wc20wc0wb20wb000wa0
0h1h200g000f0e20e0d20d00c1c0b0b2b10a20a0
fifo3
fifo4
fifo5
fifo6
fifo7
fifo8
wb00wb2
wc00wc2
wa000
th0,1
th1,1
th2,1
th0,2
th1,2
th2,2
th0,0
th1,0
th2,0
h1h0g0f0e2e0d2d0c1c0b2b1a2a0
011001001101101011110101
Compute matrix scheduling
000
100
1
1
1
000
000
100
d00d2
000
100
1
1
1
100
100
000
1
1
1
000
000
001
1
1
0
100
100
000
0
1
1
101
100
101
1
1
1
100
000
100
1
1
0
000
101
100
1
0
1
101
000
000
1
1
1
100
100
f000
a00a2
0b1b2
e00e2
c0c10
000
000
000
f000
g000
0b1b2
e00e2
c0c10
d00d2
000
000
000
g000
h0h10
c0c10
f000
d00d2
e00e2
L1 Add
Config
bits
Config
bits
Config
bits
L1 Add
L1 Add
tags
en = tag
en = tag
select_matrix 0
fifo0
fifo1
en = tag
fifo2
select_matrix 1
select_matrix 2
On-chip SRAM
Figure 11.11
Process of computation in the ﬁrst row of the multiplier matrix (Figure 11.6). The select_matrices (generated in Figure 11.10)
are used to schedule the computations on to the multiplier threads.

--- Strana 184 ---
166
11 Sparse-PE: A Sparse CNN Accelerator
Figure 11.11. The CM block consists of a series of fifos connected to the multiplier
threads of the thread matrix. Since the size of multiplier matrix is 3 × 3, a total
of 9 fifos (fifo0-fifo8) are connected to the nine individual multiplier threads.
Each column of the multiplier matrix gets a portion of the zero-inserted weight
matrix. This can be seen in Figure 11.11, where the first column of multiplier
threads (th0,0, th1,0, th2,0) gets the weight vector wa000, the second column (th0,1,
th1,1, th2,1) gets wb00wb2 and the third column (th0,2, th1,2, th2,2) gets wc00wc2.
Zero-inserted data are also scheduled to the threads from the fifos as shown in
Figure 11.11. The enabled pin of the fifos are connected to the tag bits of the
select matrices. Whenever the tag bit for a particular entry is 1, the fifo is enabled
and a new value from the fifo is passed to the multiplier which performs the
computation. Figure 11.12 shows the process of computation for the second
column (th0,1, th1,1, th2,1) of the thread matrix. In the first cycle, the first three
values in the three fifos (fifo3, fifo4, fifo5) are controlled by the first row of the
select_matrix 1 (001 100 000). The first three bits (001) along with the associated
tag bit (1) controls fifo3. Similarly the next two sets of the three bits control fifo4
and fifo5, respectively. Since the tag bits for the first two values (001 and 100) are
set to 1, the two corresponding fifos are enabled, and the data are moved to the
corresponding multiplier threads. The multiplier determines the valid nonzero
computation based on the values from the select matrix. For the first value (001),
the multiplier extracts the last 8 bits corresponding to the weight value (wb2) and
the data (b2) and performs the multiplication to generate the output value b2wb2.
Similarly, the second multiplier thread (th1,1) generates the value c0wb0. Since the
last three bits of the first row of the select matrix 1 have a tag 0 associated to it, the
fifo5 enable is off and the multiplier th2,1 does not perform a valid multiplication.
The same process repeats for the next two rows of the select matrix for cycles
2 and 3. The light gray rectangles on the fifo entries in Figure 11.12 represent
the fifo entries that have tag bits of 1 and are thus utilized in the current cycle,
whereas the dark gray rectangles indicate the entries that have tag bit of 0, and
thus, are not utilized in the current cycle. Parallel to this multiplier column, the
first (th0,0, th1,0, th2,0) and the third (th0,2, th1,2, th2,2) multiplier columns process
the data in their own respective fifos using their own select matrices to generate
the outputs.
From Figure 11.11, it can be seen that the output of the multiplier threads are
fed into the level 1 (L1) Adder circuit. The purpose of this adder is to accumu-
late the outputs which belong to the same convolution chunk and to bypass the
addition if the outputs belong to different convolution chunks. To further illustrate
this, consider the Cycle 2 in Figure 11.12. The outputs from th1,1 (d0wb0) and th2,1
(d2wb2) belong to the same convolution chunk (C2 in Figure 11.1) and therefore
need to be accumulated, whereas the output from th0,1 (f0wb0) belongs to a com-
pletely different convolution chunk (C4 in Figure 11.1) and has no relevance to

--- Strana 185 ---
11.2 Sparse-PE
167
Cycle 1
Cycle 2
Cycle 3
wb00wb2
wb00wb2
wb00wb2
fifo3
fifo4
fifo5
x
f000
x
e00e2
0b1b2
b2wb2
001
th0,1
L1 Add
L1 Add
L1 Add
th1,1
th2,1
c0c10
c0wb0
100
1
1
x
001
1
0
100 000
1
000
1
1
100 000
1
101
1
1
000 100
g000
0*0
d00d2
000
0
Config
bits
1
select_matrix 1
fifo3
fifo4
fifo5
x
x
x
x
e00e2
f0wb0
000
th0,1
th1,1
th2,1
f000
d0wb0
100
1
1
x
001
1
0
100 000
0
000
1
1
100 101
1
101
1
1
000 100
g000
d2wb2
d00d2
101
1
Config
bits
0
select_matrix 1
fifo3
fifo4
fifo5
x
x
x
x
e00e2
e0wb0
101
th0,1
th1,1
th2,1
x
e2wb2
000
1
1
x
001
1
0
100 000
0
000
1
1
100 101
1
101
1
1
000 100
x
g0wb0
g000
100
1
Config
bits
1
select_matrix 1
Figure 11.12
Cycle-by-cycle computation of the partial products from the second
column thread matrix (th0,1, th1,1, th2,1) in Figure 11.11.
the outputs from th1,1 and th2,1. This happens because the selector in the previous
step is selecting the valid nonzero computations in a nonlinear fashion to maxi-
mize the multiplier utilization and does not necessarily care about maintaining a
proper flow of multiplications. To circumvent this issue and to determine which
multiplier outputs need to be accumulated, the L1 adder uses a bit mapper that
encodes the select matrix rows to appropriate values, as shown in Figure 11.13a.
The two bits at the output encode the following information:
00 -> The thread outputs within the multiplier column are not added and passed
as is.
01 -> The outputs of th0,x and th1,x are added, whereas, the th2,x output is passed
as is.
10 -> The outputs of th1,x and th2,x are added, whereas, the th0,x output is passed
as is.
11 -> The outputs of all the threads within a multiplier column are added.
The mapping from the 9 bits of select matrix to 2 bit output is straightforward.
Since every color coded set of three bits represent a multiplication within a par-
ticular convolution chunk, whenever there are multiple ones within the same set
(black, dark gray, or light gray), the thread outputs associated to those values need
to be added together. This can be seen from entry 4 of Figure 11.13a (000 000 011
-> 01). The light gray set has value 011, so according to the above mapping, the first
two thread outputs are added together because they belong to the same convolu-
tion chunk. Similarly, the last entry (111 000 000) is mapped to 11, meaning that all
three thread outputs within a multiplier column belong to the same convolution

--- Strana 186 ---
168
11 Sparse-PE: A Sparse CNN Accelerator
select_matrix to
config bits mapping
select_matrix 1
000 000 000
00
000 000 001
00
000 000 010
00
000 000 011
01
000 000 100
00
000 000 101
01
000 000 110
01
000 000 111
11
000 001 000
00
000 001 001
00
000 001 010
00
000 001 011
10
000 001 100
00
000 111 000
11
001 000 001
00
001 000 001
00
001 000 001
00
111
000 000
11
th0,1
01
(a)
(b)
(c)
10
00
11
Config
bits
Config
bits
th1,1
th2,1
L1 Add
001
00(Cycle 1)
00
10 (Cycle 2)
01 (Cycle 3)
100
1
1
0
1
1
0
1
1
1
000
000
100
101
101
b2wb2
c0wb0
0*0
b2wb2
c0wb0
0*0
L1 Add
10
f0wb0
d0wb0
d2wb2
f0wb0
d0wb0 + d2wb2
0
000
100
L1 Add
01
e0wb0
e2wb2
g0wb0
e0wb0 + e2wb2
0
g0wb0
Figure 11.13
L1 Adder computational mapping and partial sum generation
(a) select_matrix to conﬁger bits mapper, (b) L1 Adder internal structure, and (c) Partial
sum generation through accumulation from the L1 Adders.
chunk, and therefore, need to be accumulated. Using this mapping, the L1 adder
can keep track of which thread outputs need to be accumulated and which do
not. Figure 11.13b shows the internal structure of the L1 Adder. It comprises three
adders which add different combinations of the thread outputs. It also comprises
an output multiplexer whose select line is connected to the mapper output (2 bits).
The multiplexer has three outputs which are determined by the mapper output
bits. The L1 Adder operation for the second column of the thread matrix (th0,1,
th1,1, th2,1) is shown in Figure 11.13c. The mapper maps the individual rows of the
select matrix to 2 configuration bits. Using the configuration bits, the L1 Adder
generates the outputs. In the first cycle, all three outputs (b2wb2, c0wb0, 0) belong
to different convolution chunks and therefore the config bits are 00, which passes
the inputs to outputs without accumulation. In the second cycle, the select matrix
row maps to 10, which adds the last two thread outputs (d0wb0, d2wb2) together
because they belong to the same convolution chunk and forward the first thread
output (f0wb0) as is because it belongs to a different convolution chunk. In the last
cycle, the first two thread outputs are added and the last is passed as is. It should
be noted that there are a total of three identical mappers (Figure 11.13a), each
belonging to a particular L1 adder in Figure 11.11.

--- Strana 187 ---
11.2 Sparse-PE
169
Even though the row length of the select matrix is 9 which produces 29 = 512
combinations, the mapper only needs to store those combinations for which the
total number of ones in the select matrix rows are less than or equal to the mul-
tiplier threads per column of the multiplier matrix (3 in this case). Therefore, the
total combinations that need to be stored are only 130. Generally, the total combi-
nations that need to be stored can be found using the following equation:
Combinations =
(
k
0
)
+
(
k
1
)
+
(
k
2
)
+ · · · +
(
k
n
)
(11.1)
Where k represents the length of a select matrix row (9 in this case) and n repre-
sents the total multiplier threads per column of the thread matrix (3 in this case).
Therefore, the total memory required for storing the three mappers is only 780 bits
(130 × 2 × 3).
Figure 11.14 shows the scheduling of threads for computation of the output
for the example in Figure 11.1. All the threads are connected to their respective
fifos and receive the data. The select matrices are used to schedule the data and
for generating the 2-bit L1 Adder configuration bits (also shown in Figure 11.14).
To compare the performance of a dense design which does not exploit sparsity, we
can see from Figure 11.1 that a dense approach would take a total of six cycles to
generate the output using the same number of multipliers (9 arranged in a 3 × 3
matrix). The approach presented here utilizes just three cycles to process the entire
output by exploiting the sparsity and maximizing the scheduling of valid, nonzero
1st
cycle
2nd
cycle
3rd
cycle
Thread Col 1 00
select_matrix 0
th0,0 wa0
a0
wa0
0
0
c0
th1,0
th2,0
Thread Col 2 00
th0,1
wb2
b2
0
wb0
c0
0
th1,1
th2,1
Thread Col 3 10
th0,2
wb0
c0
wc2
wb0
d0
d2
th1,2
th2,2
Thread Col 1 00
th0,0 wa0
d0
wa0
wa0
e0
f0
th1,0
th2,0
Thread Col 2 10
th0,1
wb0
f0
wb2
wb0
d0
d2
th1,1
th2,1
Thread Col 3 10
th0,2
wc0
f0
wc2
wc0
e0
e2
th1,2
th2,2
Thread Col 1 00
th0,0
0
0
0
0
0
0
th1,0
th2,0
Thread Col 2
01
th0,1
wb0
e0
e2
wb0
wb2
g0
th1,1
th2,1
Thread Col 3 00
th0,2
0
0
wc0
wc0
g0
h0
th1,2
th2,2
select_matrix 1
select_matrix 2
Figure 11.14
Multiplier matrix thread scheduling for the example in Figure 11.1.

--- Strana 188 ---
170
11 Sparse-PE: A Sparse CNN Accelerator
FIFO network
Accumulation
Compute thread matrix
Outputs
fifo1
fifo3
fifo2
L2 adders
L1 Add
0
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
d0wa0
e0wa0
a0wa0
0
0
(1)
(1)
(1)
f0wa0
c0wa0
0
e0wb0
g0wb0
+
+
+
+
+
e2wb2 (1)
(0)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
0
f0wb0
c0wb0
b2wb2
0
(1)
(1)
(0)
d0wb0
d2wb2
0
0
h0wc0
+
+
g0wc0
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(0)
(1)
f0wc0
0
d0wc0
d2wc2
c0wc0
(1)
(1)
(0)
e0wc0
e2wc2
0
fifo4
fifo6
fifo5
L1 Add
fifo7
fifo9
fifo8
L1 Add
Figure 11.15
Accumulation for the example in Figure 11.1.
multiplications during majority of the processing cycles. This represents a 50%
increase in the hardware utilization which consequently represents a 50% increase
in throughput. It should also be noted that the hardware utilization increases fur-
ther when the input sparse matrix is larger. It can be seen from Figure 11.14 that
the last three multiplications in the Thread Col 1 are all zeros because the input
matrix has been exhausted. For a larger input matrix, the average hardware uti-
lization and throughput would be higher.
11.2.4
Accumulation
The accumulation (AM) block buffers and accumulates the partial dot product
outputs from the CM block to produce the final output results. The AM block
consists of a series of fifos (fifo1-fifo9) connected at the output of the 3 L1 Adder
circuits, as shown in Figure 11.15. The output of the fifos is provided to a level 2

--- Strana 189 ---
11.2 Sparse-PE
171
(L2) adder which accumulates the dot products for a particular convolution chunk
to generate the final output. The CM block outputs the partial dot products as well
as the tag values associated with every product. The tag bits are shown in paren-
thesis in Figure 11.15. The process of accumulation occurs in two stages by the
same color coded fifos (fifo1 + fifo4 + fifo7), (fifo2 + fifo5 + fifo8), and (fifo3 + fifo6
+ fifo9). The outputs are either valid or partial, based on the tag values associated
to each accumulation stage. If the tag values for all the inputs are equal to 1, the
output is considered valid, otherwise, it is considered partial. Figure 11.16 shows
the accumulation stage map for the example in Figure 11.1. On every cycle there
are two accumulation stages. In the first stage, the previously generated partial
outputs are added to the new entries to make the output valid. To do this, the AM
block checks the tag bits in the partial output and adds the missing tag 1 input to
make the partial output complete/valid. In the second stage, the AM replaces the
already used tag 1 values with zeros and generates new partial outputs by summing
the unused tag 1 values. This process can be seen in Figure 11.16. The O3 partial
value is generated by summing the fifos F3, F6, F9 in cycle 1. The output is partial
because the Input2 and Input3 tag values are 0. O3 is made valid by summing the
O3(partial) with the now available Input2 and Input3 tag 1 values in the stage 1
during the second cycle. In the second stage, during the same cycle, the already
Cycle #
1
F1 + F4 + F7
(a0wa0)/1
(b2wb2)/1
(c0wc0)/1
O0(valid)
Stage 2
2
F1 + F4 + F7
(d0wa0)/1
(0)/0
(f0wc0)/1
O4(partial)
Stage 2
2
F2 + F5 + F8
(e0wa0)//1
(f0wb0)/1
(0)/0
O5(partial)
Stage 2
2
F3 + F6 + F9
O3(partial)
(e0wc0 +
e2wc2)/1
(d0wb0 +
d2wb2)/1
O3(valid)
Stage 1
2
F3 + F6 + F9
(f0wa0)/1
(0)/0
(0)/0
O6(partial)
Stage 2
3
F1 + F4 + F7
O4(partial)
-
(e0wb0 +
e2wb2)/1
O4(valid)
Stage 1
3
F2 + F5 + F8
(0)/1
(0)/1
(0)/1
Outputs
Exhausted
Outputs
Exhausted
Outputs
Exhausted
Stage 2
Stage 2
Stage 2
3
F2 + F5 + F8
O5(partial)
(g0wc0)/1
3
F2 + F5 + F8
(0)/1
(0)/1
(0)/1
(0)/1
(0)/1
(0)/1
O6(valid)
Stage 1
3
3
F3 + F6 + F9
F3 + F6 + F9
O6(partial)
(g0wb0)/1
(h0wc0)/1
-
O5(valid)
Stage 1
1
F2 + F5 + F8
(0)/1
(c0wb0)/1
(d0wc0 +
d2wc2)/1
O2(valid)
Stage 2
1
F3 + F6 + F9
(c0wa0)/1
(0)/0
(0)/0
O3(partial)
Stage 2
Accumulation
Fifos
Accumulation
Stage
Output
Input1/tag
Input2/tag
Input3/tag
Figure 11.16
Accumulation stage map.

--- Strana 190 ---
172
11 Sparse-PE: A Sparse CNN Accelerator
ANDing
(Fig. 6)
Selection
(Fig. 11)
Computation
(Fig. 15)
Accumulation
(Fig. 17)
IDLE
IDLE
IDLE
IDLE
SEL_R1,R2,R3 generation
select_matrices’ rows
and tag generation
IDLE
CM Op 1st
Cycle (Fig.
15)
CM Op 3rd
Cycle (Fig.
15)
CM Op
 2nd Cycle 
(Fig. 15)
IDLE
AM Op
AM Op
AM Op
1st Cycle
2nd Cycle 3rd Cycle 4th Cycle
5th Cycle
6th Cycle
Figure 11.17
Initial latency of the Sparse-PE core operations.
used tag 1 inputs are replaced by 0 and the new partial product (O6) is generated.
This process is repeated in subsequent cycles until all the inputs are utilized and
all the outputs are valid.
Figure 11.17 shows the cycle-by-cycle processing latency of the various blocks
of the Sparse-PE core for the example in Figure 11.1. The process of ANDing
takes a total of two cycles for the generation of a pair of three-tuples (SEL_R1,
SEL_R2, SEL_R3). After the generation of the first tuple of the SEL_R1, SEL_R2,
and SEL_R3 values, the selection block starts processing and takes a total of three
cycles to generate the select_matrices and the associated tag values (Figure 11.10).
The computation block gets triggered after the first row of the select_matrices
is generated and takes a total of three cycles to process the three rows of the
select_matrices (Figure 11.14). Finally, the accumulation block takes a total of
three cycles to process the partial product outputs from the computation block
(Figure 11.16) to generate the final outputs. Therefore, the initial processing
latency to generate the first output is six cycles. This initial latency, however, is
amortized over processing over a larger input.
11.2.5
Output Encoding
Figure 11.18 shows the process of output sparse binary mask encoding. Unlike the
weight masks, the output binary mask needs to be generated on-the-fly because
of its dynamic nature. From Figure 11.5, we can see that the SEL_R outputs show
the presence of the nonzero partial products for a particular convolution chunk.

--- Strana 191 ---
11.2 Sparse-PE
173
SEL_R
Reduction
SEL_R1
SEL_Rx
If SEL_Rx = All Zeros
 SEL_Rxr = 0
else
 SEL_Rxr = 1
SEL_Rxr
1st
cycle
2nd
cycle
SEL_R2
SEL_R3
SEL_R1
SEL_R2
SEL_R3
SEL_R1r
SEL_R1r
Outputs (assume red outputs are negative)
O0
ReLU
(b)
(a)
O2
O3
O5
O1
O4
O0
O2
O3
O5
0
0
1
SEL_R2r
1
SEL_R3r
1
SEL_R1r
1
SEL_R2r
1
SEL_R3r
1
1
000
0
1
000 000
Otherwise
0
1
1
0
1
SEL_R2r
SEL_R3r
SEL_R1r
SEL_R2r
SEL_R3r
9-bits to 1-bit
reduction
Figure 11.18
Output sparse mask generation. (a) Reduction of the individual SEL_R
outputs to a single bit (SEL_Rxr), based on an all-zero check and (b) sparse binary mask
after ReLU where the negative outputs and their corresponding sparse mask locations are
converted into zeros.
The presence of even a single one in the SEL_R outputs show that the output is
nonzero. To determine the output binary mask, we can use the same metadata.
The first step involves reduction of the individual SEL_R outputs to a single bit
(SEL_Rxr), based on an all-zero check, as shown in Figure 11.18a. This generates
the sparse binary mask for the outputs before ReLU. Note that the SEL_R values
are taken from the test example (Figure 11.1). Figure 11.18b shows the second
step after ReLU, where the negative outputs, and their corresponding sparse mask
locations, are converted into zeros. This final sparse mask is stored as is, whereas
the output is shifted first to omit zero data entries, and then stored.
This concludes the processing that goes on in a single Sparse-PE core when
convolution is performed using a 3 × 3 filter. For a filter of size 5 × 5, 7 × 7, or
higher, the kernel factorization [178] is employed to convert larger filters into a
set of smaller 3 × 3 filters. This factorization makes it possible to keep the design
of PEs relatively simple and not incorporate complex flow control to support larger
filters. It should be noted that the kernel factorization is done during model gener-
ation and training. The final generated model with 3 × 3 filters is then used during
the inference. Sparse-PE, however, also supports 5 × 5 filters by using a multiplier
matrix of 5 × 5, instead of the current 3 × 3.
1 × 1 convolution, used in many modern CNN models, is performed the same
way as the 3 × 3 convolution. Figure 11.19 shows an example of 1 × 1 convolu-
tion. Here, a 1 × 1 × 9 filter is convolved with a 3 × 1 × 9 input matrix to produce
a 3 × 1 output. Figure 11.19 also shows the transformation employed by the archi-
tecture to transform the 1 × 1 convolution operation into an equivalent 3 × 3 stride
3 convolution. Here, individual channels of the filter and the input matrix are

--- Strana 192 ---
174
11 Sparse-PE: A Sparse CNN Accelerator
Stride 3 CONV
1
3
F8
F0
F0
F1
F2
F3
F4
F5
F6
F7
F8
I0,0
I0,0
I0,3
I0,6
I0,1
I0,4
I0,7
I0,2
I0,5
I0,8
I1,0
I1,3
I1,6
I1,1
I1,4
I1,7
I1,2
I1,5
I1,8
I2,0
I2,3
I2,6
I2,1
I2,4
I2,7
I2,3
I2,5
I2,8
I2,8
I1,8
I0,8
O0
O1
O2
I1,0
I2,0
9
9
3
1
O0
O1
O2
3
1
=
=
1
1
Figure 11.19
1 × 1
convolution layer
transformation into an
equivalent 3 × 3, stride 3
convolution layer.
transformed into a 3 × 3 matrix and scheduled to the core for processing. The core
then performs the selection, computation, and accumulation in the same manner
as explained previously. For an input and a kernel with higher channel count, as
is the case for most commonly used CNN models, the channels are broken down
equally and scheduled among different Sparse-PE cores (Figure 11.21).
Sparse-PE architecture also allows the processing of FC layers. Figure 11.20
shows an example of FC layer processing. Here, a 9 × 1 input array and a 9 × 3
filter matrix produces a 1 × 3 output. The input and the filter matrices are
again transformed into an equivalent 3 × 3 stride 3 convolution. Sparse-PE then
processes the transformed input to generate the final outputs.
In Section 11.3, we will show the performance improvement offered by an
accelerator that uses a system of Sparse-PE cores to accelerate the CNN inference
process.
11.3
Implementation and Results
This section describes the performance modeling and the implementation of the
Sparse-PE core. An individual Sparse-PE core works by computing dot products
between a subsection of the sparse input data and the sparse weight data to pro-
duce a subsection of the output data. To process multiple subsections, we envision
an R × C matrix architecture of the Sparse-PE cores, where, R represents the rows
and C represents the columns. From Figure 11.21, we can see that the value of R

--- Strana 193 ---
11.3 Implementation and Results
175
F0,0
I0
F0,0
F3,0
F6,0
F1,0
F4,0
F7,0
F2,0
F5,0
F8,0
F0,1
F3,1
F6,1
F1,1
F4,1
F7,1
F2,1
F5,1
F8,1
F0,2
F3,2
F6,2
F1,2
F4,2
F7,2
F2,2
F5,2
F8,2
I0
I3
I6
I1
I4
I7
I2
I5
I8
O0
O1
O2
1
3
O0
O1
O2
1
3
1
3
=
=
Stride 3 CONV
9
9
I1
I2
I3
I4
I5
I6
I7
I8
F1,0
F2,0
F3,0
F4,0
F5,0
F6,0
F7,0
F8,0
F0,1
F1,1
F2,1
F3,1
F4,1
F5,1
F6,1
F7,1
F8,1
F0,2
F1,2
F2,2
F3,2
F4,2
F5,2
F6,2
F7,2
F8,2
Figure 11.20
FC layer transformation into an equivalent 3 × 3, stride 3 convolution
layer.
and C is 7 and 4, respectively, making the total number of Sparse-PE cores equal
to 7 × 4 = 28. Since, a single Sparse-PE core has 3 × 3 = 9 multiplier threads, the
matrix of cores in Figure 11.21 have a total of 9 × 28 = 252 multiplier threads. The
cores get the sparse data and the binary masks from input SRAMs. The outputs
of the cores are connected to level 3 (L3) adders that accumulate individual chan-
nel outputs to generate the final output. These outputs are stored in the output
SRAMs and subsequently sent to the DRAM for next layer processing. We simu-
late the architecture using our cycle-accurate simulator and extract the throughput
and hardware utilization results. We also implement the Sparse-PE core in RTL
Verilog and provide an estimate of resource and power consumption.
11.3.1
Cycle-Accurate Simulator
To evaluate the performance of an individual Sparse-PE core and the 7 × 4 matrix
of Sparse-PE cores as a whole, we develop a cycle-accurate performance simulator.

--- Strana 194 ---
176
11 Sparse-PE: A Sparse CNN Accelerator
Core0_0
Channel
adders
L3 Adder0
L3 Adder1
L3 Adder2
L3 Adder3
L3 Adder4
L3 Adder5
L3 Adder6
Core1_0
Core2_0
Core3_0
Core4_0
Core5_0
R
Input and weight SRAMs
Output SRAMs
Core6_0
Core0_1
Core1_1
Core2_1
Core3_1
Core4_1
Core5_1
Core6_1
Core0_2
Core1_2
Core2_2
Core3_2
Core4_2
Core5_2
Core6_2
Core0_3
C
Core1_3
Core2_3
Core3_3
Core4_3
Core5_3
Core6_3
Figure 11.21
3D Sparse-PE core architecture.
The simulator generates the results using different values of n for the Sparse-PE
cores in Figure 11.21. The simulator was built using MATLAB R2020a and the
Sparse-PE functionality was implemented in software. The Sparse-PE cores in
Figure 11.21 are implemented using a MATLAB function which is provided
different data based on the current layer dimensions. The evaluation files in
the simulator use the data outputted by the individual cores and schedulers to
generate the throughput and the speedup results for various dense and sparse
CNN models. The simulator has modifiable n parameter for the individual cores.
Recall that n (look-ahead factor) represents the total number of convolution
chunks the core looks into during an input processing. For the design example
previously presented, we considered the n value to be 3, which indicates that at
any particular cycle, the core looks into three convolution chunks to determine
valid computations. To evaluate the performance, we use different values of the n
parameter which allows us to look-ahead into a different number of convolution
chunks for processing in a particular cycle. The simulator also contains routines
for SparTen [151], SCNN [162], and Eyeriss v2 [52] for performing comparisons.
The performance is evaluated on many widely used CNN models including
Alexnet [30], VGG16 [31], MobileNet [33], and GoogleNet [35]. We use the
sparse versions of VGG16 and MobileNet for comparison purposes. To create
sparse versions of the CNNs, we use the approach presented in [46] for pruning
using the MATLAB’s Deep Learning Toolbox. For fair comparison, we achieve

--- Strana 195 ---
11.3 Implementation and Results
177
the same level of the weight and the input sparsity as the previous approaches
and then evaluate the nets for performance comparisons. The activation sparsity
changes dynamically during the inference process; therefore, we average out the
input sparsity for a batch of 100 randomly selected inputs. After pruning of the
network, we generate the sparse binary masks for every layer and generate a
network containing only the binary masks, since only this information is needed
to efficiently represent the multiply-accumulate (MAC) operations needed per
layer for the accelerator.
11.3.1.1
Performance with Varying Sparsity
Our core simulator has the ability to sweep both input activation/weight spar-
sity from high (95%/95%) to low (10%/10%). This gives us an accurate measure
of how much performance improvement, in terms of speedup and hardware uti-
lization, can be achieved using the Sparse-PE core. Figures 11.22 and 11.23 show
the speedup results and the average thread utilization for VGG16 and MobileNet,
respectively, under varying sparsity. These results are obtained by running the
sparse neural nets layer by layer and then averaging out the speedup and the thread
utilization for one complete run. It should be noted that all the layers, including
20
(a)
0.1/0.1 0.2/0.2 0.3/0.3
dense
Sparse-PE-9
Sparse-PE-18
Sparse-PE-27
0.4/0.4 0.5/0.5 0.6/0.6 0.7/0.7 0.8/0.8 0.9/0.9 1.0/1.0
15
10
Speedup
Weight/activation sparsity
5
0
100.00
80.00
60.00
40.00
20.00
0.00
(b)
0.1/0.1 0.2/0.2 0.3/0.3 0.4/0.4 0.5/0.5 0.6/0.6 0.7/0.7 0.8/0.8 0.9/0.9 1.0/1.0
Avg. thread utilization
Weight/activation sparsity
Figure 11.22
VGG16 performance with varying sparsity: (a) Speedup results and
(b) average thread utilization.

--- Strana 196 ---
178
11 Sparse-PE: A Sparse CNN Accelerator
20
25
(a)
0.1/0.1 0.2/0.2 0.3/0.3
dense
Sparse-PE-9
Sparse-PE-18
Sparse-PE-27
0.4/0.4 0.5/0.5 0.6/0.6 0.7/0.7 0.8/0.8 0.9/0.9 1.0/1.0
15
10
Speedup
Weight/activation sparsity
5
0
100.00
80.00
60.00
40.00
20.00
0.00
(b)
0.1/0.1 0.2/0.2 0.3/0.3 0.4/0.4 0.5/0.5 0.6/0.6 0.7/0.7 0.8/0.8 0.9/0.9 1.0/1.0
Avg. thread utilization
Weight/activation sparsity
Figure 11.23
MobileNet performance with varying sparsity: (a) Speedup results and
(b) average thread utilization.
the FC layers, are accounted for in this test. Three Sparse-PE core configurations
(Sparse-PE-n) are considered with n (lookahead factor) changed from 9 to 18 to
27. At very low sparsity (0.1/0.1), we observe that a dense core and the Sparse-PE
core perform somewhat similar in terms of performance. There is a slight increase
in the thread utilization, with dense providing almost 80% utilization while all the
Sparse-PE configurations providing almost 90% utilization for sparse VGG16 net.
For MobileNet, the dense provides almost 70% utilization, while Sparse-PE cores
provide almost 80%. For VGG16, the Sparse-PE cores consistently keep the uti-
lization greater than 90% even at high sparsity levels (60%), whereas, as expected,
the dense core’s utilization decreases by 25–30% and then decreases sharply by
50% at high sparsity levels. This higher thread utilization directly correlates to
improved throughput and speedup when compared against a dense design. At 80%
sparsity, the Sparse-PE-9, Sparse-PE-18 and Sparse-PE-27 are 7×, 10×, and 11.5×
faster, respectively, than a dense design for the sparse VGG16 net. Comparing dif-
ferent versions of the Sparse-PE cores, we see a 57% performance improvement
when going from Sparse-PE-9 configuration to Sparse-PE-27 configuration. This
shows that the higher the value of the lookahead factor n, the greater is the per-
formance improvement delivered by our Sparse-PE core for sparse input activa-
tions/weights.

--- Strana 197 ---
11.3 Implementation and Results
179
11.3.1.2
Comparison Against Past Approaches
We compare our core design against three previously proposed sparse CNN accel-
erators (SCNN [162], SparTen [151], Eyeriss v2 [52]), and one dense accelerator
(NeuroMAX [96]). Among these designs, SCNN, SparTen, and NeuroMAX do not
support FC layers, so we omit our FC layer results for fair comparison. SCNN, in
addition, also does not support nonunit stride convolutions. We use the Sparse
VGG16 net for comparison with these three accelerators. The average sparsity
achieved without a significant loss in accuracy for the weights and activations is
77% and 68%, respectively. Figure 11.24 shows the comparison results obtained
using our simulator. We observe that Sparse-PE-27, on average, performs 11.2×,
4.3×, and 1.96× better than NeuroMAX, SCNN, and SparTen, respectively.
Figure 11.25 shows the comparison of the Sparse-PE core configurations
against Eyeriss v2 on selected layers of MobileNet. The average sparsity for the
weights and activations is 73% and 64%, respectively. We observe that, on average,
Sparse-PE-9, Sparse-PE-18, and Sparse-PE-27, perform 1.04×, 1.71×, and 2.85×,
Layer 1
Layer 2
Layer 3
Layer 4
Layer 5
Layer 6
Layer 7
VGG16 Layers
Layer 8
Layer 9 Layer 10 Layer 11 Layer 12 Layer 13
Mean
0
2
4
6
8
10
Speedup
12
14
16
18
SparTen
SCNN
NeuroMAX
Sparse-PE-9
Sparse-PE-18
Sparse-PE-27
Figure 11.24
VGG16 speedup comparison.
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
Speedup
Eyeriss v2
NeuroMAX
MobileNet layers
CONV2_DW
CONV2_PW
CONV3_DW
CONV3_PW
CONV4_DW
CONV4_PW
CONV13_DW
CONV13_PW
CONV14_DW
CONV14_PW
FC15
Mean
Sparse-PE-9
Sparse-PE-18
Sparse-PE-27
Figure 11.25
MobileNet speedup comparison.

--- Strana 198 ---
180
11 Sparse-PE: A Sparse CNN Accelerator
better, respectively, than Eyeriss v2. Comparing different configurations show
that the Sparse-PE-27 configuration offers 108.8% increase in speedup over
Sparse-PE-9 configuration for sparse MobileNet.
Energy comparison among different accelerators is somewhat challenging as it
requires working RTL implementations. Since the energy consumption is domi-
nated by the total number of DRAM accesses, therefore, by estimating the DRAM
accesses, energy difference among the accelerators can be approximated. Many
of the recent works rely on the CSC/CSR formats for the storage of the nonzero
data. We, therefore, compare the accessed memory for the CSC format against
the sparse binary mask format. Figure 11.26 shows the intermediate activations’
memory access comparison for selected sparse VGG 16 and MobileNet layers.1
The activation sparsity for different layers is also shown. In the initial layers with
30
1
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
Sparse mask
CSC
Sparsity
25
20
15
DRAM accesses in megabits (Mb)
Sparsity
10
5
0
Layer 2
Layer 4
Layer 6
(a)
VGG16 layers
Layer 8
Layer 11
3.5
3
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
Sparse mask
CSC
Sparsity
2.5
2
1.5
DRAM accesses in megabits (Mb)
Sparsity
1
0.5
0
Conv3_dw
Conv3_pw
Conv7_dw
Conv7_pw
Conv14_dw
(b)
Mobilenet layers
Figure 11.26
Sparse binary mask vs. CSC DRAM access for (a) Sparse VGG16 and
(b) Sparse MobileNet.
1 The memory requirement for the nonzero data is not shown since it is the same for both the
CSC format and the sparse binary mask. The accessed memory comparison is made for the
sparse binary mask and the location vectors (column, index) of the CSC format.

--- Strana 199 ---
11.3 Implementation and Results
181
low activation sparsity, the CSC format has approximately 4× and 3.7× higher
DRAM memory accesses than the sparse mask for sparse VGG16 and Mobilenet,
respectively. In the deeper layers with moderate-to-high sparsity, the memory
requirement for the CSC format is around 1.7× that of the sparse mask.
This shows that the sparse binary mask format not only needs less encoding/
decoding logic, but is also efficient when it comes to memory requirements when
compared against the CSC format. This translates directly to higher energy, area,
and compute savings for our accelerator which employs the sparse binary mask.
11.3.2
RTL Implementation
We use Xilinx Z-7100 SoC to implement the Sparse-PE core design. The SoC is
divided into two parts, the programmable logic (PL), containing the FPGA fabric,
and the processing system (PS), containing ARM cores. The two are connected
using an AXI on-chip communication subsystem. We implement the Sparse-PE
core on the PL and use the PS to transfer data to/from a desktop computer to PL.
The test design is implemented for the Sparse-PE-27 configuration and runs at
200 MHz. Table 11.1 shows the resource utilization results for a single Sparse-PE
core with n = 27. Figure 11.27 shows the breakdown of the utilization among
Table 11.1
Resource utilization for a single Sparse-PE-27 core.
Property
Available
Used
Utilization (%)
LUTs
277k
3.4k
1.23%
FFs
554k
6k
1.1%
On-chip SRAM
26.5Mb
2.1kB
0.01%
Selection (SL)
Computation (CM)
Accumulation (AM)
AXI
SRAM Logic
(a)
(b)
(c)
6%5%
20%
40%
29%
8% 3%
25%
34%
30%
12%
2%
30%
39%
17%
Figure 11.27
Breakdown of resource utilization for (a) LUTs, (b) FFs, and (c) SRAM
memory.

--- Strana 200 ---
182
11 Sparse-PE: A Sparse CNN Accelerator
various sub-blocks of the Sparse-PE core. The lookup table (LUT) and the flip-flop
(FF) cost is dominated by the selection (SL) block with SL taking almost 40% and
34% of the overall LUTs and FFs used, respectively. The SRAM utilization is domi-
nated by the computation (CM) block because of the bit mapping and the buffering
fifos (Figure 11.12). The design has a power consumption of 2.48W with the PS
dominating the consumption (55%).
Table 11.2 shows the implementation details of the Sparse-PE accelerator
(Figure 11.21) comprising of the Sparse-PE-27 cores. It should be noted that the
PE number in Table 11.2 refers to the total number of multipliers in the design.
Since a single Sparse-PE-27 core has 3 × 3 = 9 multipliers, the total PEs (or
multipliers) in the design are R × C × 9 = 252. The R × C matrix of the accelerator
consumes roughly 85% of the available LUT resources, whereas the rest 15%
are consumed by the additional control logic. Table 11.2 also lists the details of
some recently proposed sparse CNN accelerators. Eyeriss v2, implemented on a
65 nm application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC), supports two-sided sparsity
(sparsewa), i.e., sparsity in both weights and activations. Eyeriss v2, however,
uses a total of 2695 k gates which represent a 108% increase in area cost when
compared to the original Eyeriss [45]. This is because of the relatively complex
design of the PEs of Eyeriss v2. SparTen accelerator [151] is implemented on Intel
Cyclone IV FPGA and operates at 50 MHz. It also supports two-sided sparsity but
has no support for FC layers. Although the implementation cost of SparTen is not
reported, the architecture of SparTen requires complex inter-PE synchronization
circuits which would greatly increase its cost. Zero-Activation-Skipping Convolu-
tional Accelerator (ZASCA) [179], implemented on a 65 nm ASIC, uses a total of
192 PEs and runs at 200 MHz. Just as Sparse-PE, ZASCA accommodates both the
CONV and the FC layers in its architecture. However, unlike Sparse-PE, ZASCA
only exploits activation sparsity (sparsea). In addition, because of architectural
limitations, ZASCA can not fully exploit its resources for 1 × 1 convolution,
resulting in a significant decrease in hardware utilization for such convolutions.
Zhu et al. [180] proposed a structured sparse CNN accelerator, implemented
on Xilinx ZCU102 FPGA. The proposed accelerator uses structured pruning to
reduce irregularities in sparse weights and employs a sparse wise dataflow scheme
for high data reuse. The accelerator proposed in [180], however, only exploits
sparsity in weights (sparsew) and can not exploit activation sparsity. Because of
the complex design and the dataflow scheme, the accelerator proposed in [180]
has a huge logic utilization cost (390 k LUTs). Sparse-PE accelerator, even though,
employs 32% more PEs than [180], it, however, utilizes 71% lesser resources.
Xie et al. [181] proposed a flexible accelerator architecture that supports both
structured and unstructured weight sparsity. The accelerator is implemented on
Intel Aria 10 SoC and uses a hybrid parallel (HP) dataflow. Even though, the
resoure count of the accelerator is lower than Sparse-PE, the dataflow employed

--- Strana 201 ---
Table 11.2
Comparison of Sparse-PE-based accelerator with previous designs.
Property
Sparse-PE
accelerator
Eyerissv2
[52]
SparTen
[151]
ZASCA
[179]
Zhu et al.
[180]
Xie et al.
[181]
Lu et al.
[182]
Technology
Z-7100
65nm
Cyclone IV
65nm
ZCU102
Aria 10
ZCU102
Precision(bits)
8-bit
8-20 bits
8-bit
16-bit
16-bit
8-bit
16-bit
PE number
252
192
256
192
192
512
288
Frequency (MHz)
200
200
50
200
200
170
200
Accelerator type
sparsewa
sparsewa
sparsewa
sparsea
sparsew
sparsew
sparsew
Resources (LUTs(a), Gates(b))
112k(a)
2695k(b)
unreported
1036k(b)
390k(a)
102.6k(a)
132k(a)
Core only Power (W)
3.7
0.460
unreported
0.301
unreported
4.6
unreported
Supported layers
CONV + FC
CONV + FC
CONV only
CONV + FC
CONV + FC
CONV only
CONV only

--- Strana 202 ---
184
11 Sparse-PE: A Sparse CNN Accelerator
in the accelerator does not support FC layers. It, also, can only exploit weight
sparsity (sparsew) and has no support for activation sparsity. The accelerator
proposed in [182] uses a weight-oriented dataflow that performs element-matrix
multiplication. It also uses a tile lookup table (TLUT) to match the sparse weight
with the input pixel to exploit weight sparsity (sparsew). Similar to [181], the
accelerator proposed in [182] is also a CONV only accelerator and has no support
for FC layers. It also can not exploit activation sparsity (sparsea).
11.4
Chapter Summary
This chapter presented Sparse-PE, a multithreaded, general purpose, dot prod-
uct core for sparse convolutional neural networks. The designed core exploited
two-sided sparsity, that is, sparsity in both the weights and activations to maximize
the throughput and hardware utilization. Unlike contemporary approaches that
use the CSC format and the associated complex PE design, the Sparse-PE core uses
the sparse binary mask format and has a relatively low complexity. The chapter
also presented novel, low-cost circuits, including selection, computation, and
accumulation, which, when used in conjunction, allows the core to skip huge
number of computations involving zero data and only favor computations involv-
ing nonzero data to maximize the throughput. Results showed that the Sparse-PE
core could effectively keep the hardware utilization above 85% at sparsity as high
as 60%, for both the input activations and weights. The chapter also compared the
performance of Sparse-PE core-based accelerator against previous state-of-the-art
dense and two-sided sparse CNN accelerators. Experimental results showed that
the Sparse-PE offered, on average, 12×, 4.2×, 2.38×, and 1.98×, speedup over
NeuroMAX (dense), SCNN (sparse), Eyeriss v2 (sparse), and SparTen (sparse),
respectively.

--- Strana 203 ---
185
12
Phantom: A High-Performance Computational Core for
Sparse CNNs
Neural nets have been around since the 1940s; however, the first practically
applicable neural network, referred to as the LeNet [5], was proposed in 1989.
This neural network was designed to solve the problem of digit recognition in
handwritten numeric digits. It paved the way for the development of neural
networks responsible for various applications related to digit recognition like
an ATM. The slow growth and a little to no adoption of neural networks in the
early days is mainly due to the massive computational requirements involved
with their processing which limited their study to theoretical concepts. Over
the past decade, there has been an exponential growth in the research on deep
neural networks (DNNs) with many new high accuracy DNNs being deployed
for various applications. This has only been possible because of two factors.
The first factor is the advancements in the processing power of semiconductor
devices and technological breakthroughs in computer architecture. Nowadays,
computers have significantly higher computing capability. This enables the
processing of a neural network within a reasonable time frame, something that
was not achievable in the early days. The second factor is the availability of a
large amount of training datasets. As neural networks learn over time, providing
huge amounts of training data enables better accuracy. For example, Facebook
receives close to a billion user images per day, whereas YouTube has 300h of video
uploaded every minute [6]. This enables the service providers to train their neural
networks for targeted ad campaigns bringing in billions of dollars of ad revenue.
Apart from their use in social media platforms, DNNs are impacting many other
domains and expect to make a huge impact. One of the domains where DNNs
have contributed significantly is speech processing. Nowadays, many applications
have been developed that use DNNs to perform real-time speech recognition
with unprecedented levels of accuracy [7–9]. Many technology companies are
also using DNNs to perform language translation used in a wide variety of
applications. Google, for example, uses Google’s Neural Machine Translation
system (GNMT) [10] which uses recurrent neural networks (RNNs), a type of
Accelerators for Convolutional Neural Networks, First Edition.
Arslan Munir, Joonho Kong, and Mahmood Azhar Qureshi.
© 2024 The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Published 2024 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

--- Strana 204 ---
186
12 Phantom: A High-Performance Computational Core for Sparse CNNs
DNN, for their language translation applications. Autonomous driving has been
one of the biggest technological breakthroughs in the auto industry since the
invention of the internal combustion engine. It is not a coincidence that the
self-driving boom came at the same time when high accuracy DNNs became
increasingly popular. Companies like Tesla and Waymo are using various types
of self-driving technology including visual feeds and Lidar for their self-driving
solutions. One thing which is common in all these solutions is the use of DNNs
for visual perception of the road conditions which is the main back-end technol-
ogy used in advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS). Another crucial area
where DNNs have become increasingly useful is medicine. Nowadays, doctors
can use artificial intelligence (AI)-assisted medical imagery to perform various
surgeries. AI systems use DNNs in genomics to gather insights about genetic
disorders like autism [13, 14]. DNNs are also useful in the detection of various
types of cancers like skin and brain cancer [15, 16]. The advent of AI has also
challenged many traditional security approaches that were previously deemed
sufficient. The rollout of 5G technology has caused a massive surge of IoT-based
deployments which traditional security approaches are not able to keep up with.
Physical unclonability approaches [17–19] were introduced to protect this massive
deployment of IoTs against security attacks with minimum cost overheads. These
approaches, however, were also unsuccessful in preventing AI-assisted attacks
using DNNs [22, 23]. Researchers have now been forced to upgrade the security
threat models to incorporate AI-based attacks [24, 25]. Because of a massive
increase in AI-assisted cyber-attacks on cloud and datacenters, corporations and
governments have realized that the best way of defeating offensive AI attacks is
by incorporating AI-based defensive strategies.
Overall, the use of DNNs in various applications has seen exponential growth
over the past decade and this trend has been on the rise for the past many years.
The massive increase in DNN deployments on the edge devices requires the devel-
opment of efficient processing architectures to keep up with the computational
requirements for successful DNN inference.
CNNs for vision AI applications have reached an unprecedented accuracy ever
since the introduction of AlexNet [30] about a decade ago. Many of the previously
proposed high-accuracy CNNs [30–32, 35] have tremendous amounts of compu-
tations owing to a large number of model parameters. These parameters and the
associated massive number of computations generate exorbitant amounts of data
in the form of partial sums (psums) and feature maps. This massive data, in addi-
tion to the model parameters, raise concerns in regards to both compute and mem-
ory bandwidth. In addition, it also raises concerns about energy consumption of a
neural network accelerator (NNA), since on-chip memory is not sufficient to store
the entire model, which, in some cases, can be in the order of hundreds of MBs. To

--- Strana 205 ---
12 Phantom: A High-Performance Computational Core for Sparse CNNs
187
support this massive model size of a CNN, off-chip dynamic random access mem-
ory (DRAM) memories are generally employed. It has been shown that the energy
cost per fetch for 32b coefficients in an off-chip LPDDR2 DRAM is about 640 pJ,
which is about 6400× the energy cost of a 32b integer ADD operation [36]. The
power dissipation resulting from just the DRAM accesses would be well beyond
the limits of an embedded mobile device employing the NNA.
Various techniques have been developed to address the compute and memory
bandwidth issues of an NNA, running a CNN. Mobilenets [33, 34] were developed
to reduce the total number of computations by splitting a regular convolution oper-
ation into separable convolutions (depthwise and pointwise), without incurring a
loss in accuracy. Another widely used approach for decreasing the model size is the
reduction in precision of both weights and activations using various quantization
strategies [37–39]. This again does not result in a significant loss in accuracy and
reduces the model size by a considerable amount. Hardware implementations like
Envision [40], NeuroMAX [96], UNPU [41], and Stripes [42] show how reduced
bit precision, and quantization, translates into increased throughput and savings
in energy.
Modern CNNs owe their high accuracy to deep layers and the nonlinearity in
their design. Typically, nonlinearity is added by incorporating activation functions,
the most common being the rectified linear unit (ReLU) [6]. The ReLU converts
all negative values in a feature map to zeros. Since the output of one layer is the
input to the next layer, many of the computations, within a layer, involve multipli-
cation with zeros. These feature maps containing zeros are referred to as one-sided
sparse feature maps. The multiplications resulting from this one-sided sparsity
wastes compute cycles and decreases the effective throughput and hardware uti-
lization, thus, reducing the overall performance of the accelerator. It also results
in high energy cost as the transfer of zeros to/from off-chip memory is a wasted
memory access. In order to reduce the computational and memory access volume,
previous works [43–45] have exploited this one-sided sparsity and displayed some
performance improvements.
Compression of DNN models was introduced the first time in [46]. Han et al.
[46] iteratively pruned the connections based on parameter threshold, and per-
formed retraining to retain accuracy. This process resulted in two-sided sparsity,
i.e., sparsity in both weights and activations, which led to approximately 9× model
reduction for AlexNet, and 13× reduction for VGG-16. It also resulted in 4–9× effec-
tive compute reduction (depending on the model). These gains, in theory, are very
promising, however, designing an accelerator that leverages the two-sided sparsity
is quite challenging as explained in Chapter 11.
Considering the aforementioned issues, many previously proposed accelerators
attempt to strike a balance between hardware complexity and performance

--- Strana 206 ---
188
12 Phantom: A High-Performance Computational Core for Sparse CNNs
improvements; however, the contemporary accelerators have many shortcomings
as explained in Chapter 11.
To address the issues in contemporary sparse CNN accelerators, this chapter
proposes and introduces Phantom, a flexible and high throughput neural com-
putational core which promises high hardware utilization. The core works for
both dense and sparse networks by dynamically mapping valid computations on
the processing threads. The core also addresses the systematic load imbalance by
using a two-level, dynamic, load balancing strategy. Unlike some of the previous
works, the core can work on any input layer, be it CONV or fully connected (FC),
and supports any type of convolution (regular or separable). Phantom is based on
Sparse-PE presented in Chapter 11 and like Sparse-PE, Phantom utilizes binary
mask representation to actively lookahead into sparse computations, and dynam-
ically schedule its computational threads to maximize the thread utilization and
throughput. Many concepts in Phantom overlap with Sparse-PE, and these con-
cepts are presented in this chapter again for completeness. In summary, the main
contributions of this chapter include
●A multithreaded neural computational core architecture, called Phantom,
designed to maximize the hardware utilization and throughput of CNN models.
●Phantom exploits the sparsity in both weights, and activations, simultaneously,
by incorporating simple, yet powerful circuits like Lookahead Mask, Top-Down
Selector, and Thread Mapper. These circuits, when used in conjunction, map the
effective, nonzero computations onto an array of multiplier threads within a PE.
The core also has the capability to skip huge number of nonessential computa-
tions (zerow × zeroa, zerow × non-zeroa, non-zerow × zeroa), while simultaneously
favoring essential computations (non-zerow × non-zeroa), without wasting com-
pute cycles (subscripts “w” and “a” here refer to weights and activations, respec-
tively). This drastically improves the core’s hardware utilization, consequently
improving the throughput.
●Addressing the systematic load imbalance by using a two-tiered, on-the-fly, load
balancing strategy. Unlike some previous approaches, this balancing does not
require offline processing or modification of the CNN model.
●Generating a two-dimensional (2D) mesh architecture of Phantom neural com-
putational cores, which we refer to as Phantom-2D accelerator. Unlike some
previous works that only support either CONV layers or FC layers, we show
how Phantom-2D supports different CONV types (unit and nonunit stride) and
FC layers, in addition to supporting both sparse and dense CNN models.
●Simulations show that the Phantom-2D accelerator has a performance gain of
12×, 4.1×, 1.98×, and 2.36×, over dense architectures, SCNN, SparTen, and Eye-
riss v2, respectively, while retaining the energy efficiency of SparTen.

--- Strana 207 ---
12.1 Related Work
189
The remainder of the chapter is organized as follows: Section 12.1 presents
relevant works in literature. Section 12.2 presents the proposed Phantom core
and its inner workings. Section 12.3 presents the design of a two-dimensional
accelerator comprising of Phantom cores. Experimental methodology, simulation
results, comparisons, and implementation cost are given in Section 12.4. Lastly,
Section 12.5 concludes this chapter.
12.1
Related Work
Many dense architectures have been proposed in the literature that optimize com-
pute [39, 126, 127] and memory bandwidth [131, 132] for CNN inferences. Quanti-
zation of weights and activations using log [37, 38] and linear [39, 175] techniques
further reduce the memory footprint. This does not result in a significant loss in
accuracy and reduces the CNN model size by a considerable amount. Hardware
implementations such as Envision [40], VWA [142], NeuroMAX [96], UNPU [41],
and Stripes [42], show how reduced bit precision, efficient dataflow, and quanti-
zation, translates into increased throughput and savings in energy. Efficient data
reuse-based accelerators [45, 184] maximize the data reuse within different layers
to minimize the memory accesses, thereby, reducing energy consumption. Sepa-
rable accelerators [138, 139] implement efficient hardware on programmable gate
array (FPGA) for accelerating separable convolutions. These accelerators, how-
ever, cannot handle a vast majority of CNNs that employ regular convolutions
and FC layers. Bit-serial accelerators [133, 134] use booth encoding to suppress
the use of zero bits, and, thereby, reduce the total computations. These schemes,
however, transfer zeros to and from memory which incurs SRAM area and energy.
CirCNN [135] uses block circulant matrices for weights to improve the perfor-
mance. It, however, utilizes complex hardware to perform the Fourier transform
(FFT) operations, and also, does not capture full sparsity. In-memory accelerators
[136, 137] use simple analog logic to implement matrix multiplications within
memory. These accelerators, however, cannot exploit sparsity as it requires com-
plex arithmetic logic unit (ALU) and buffering logic. Analog circuits also suffer
heavily from noise and process variations which can drastically reduce the CNN
accuracy.
Sparse architectures try to reduce the compute and data volume by exploiting
the naturally occurring zeros in weights or activations (one-sided), or both
weights and activations (two-sided). Cnvlutin [43] and Cambricon-X [44] exploit
one-sided sparsity of either weights or input maps but not both. Cnvlutin, also,
does not avoid transfer of zeros and only skips cycles for activations. Cambricon-X
does not store activations in compressed format, while Cambricon-S [174] forces
regularity by employing coarse grain pruning that affects accuracy. Even though

--- Strana 208 ---
190
12 Phantom: A High-Performance Computational Core for Sparse CNNs
it discards zeros during computation, it still retrieves and stores them. Tensaurus
[176] accelerates dense and sparse tensor factorizations by introducing a new
dataflow which they refer to as compressed interleaved sparse slice (CISS)
dataflow. Tensaurus, however, is capable of supporting only one-sided sparsity.
Some recent sparse GEMM (SpGEMM) accelerators [153, 154, 156, 158, 177, 178]
target general sparse-matrix, sparse-matrix multiplications. Extensor [177] and
Sigma [153] use output stationary (inner-product) dataflow for sparse matrix
multiplications. Inner-product, however, is inefficient against highly sparse
matrices because every element of the rows and columns must be traversed even
though there are less effectual computations (nonzero × nonzero). This leads
to a massive amount of wasted computations. SpArch [154] and OuterSPACE
[178] use input stationary (or outer-product) dataflow to avoid the inefficiencies
associated with the inner-product dataflow. Outer-product, however, gives poor
output reuse as the partial outputs generated are more in quantity than the
final outputs which can cause significant memory traffic. Finally, MatRaptor
[156] introduces channel cyclic sparse row (C2SR) dataflow for better reuse and
memory efficiency. It is a modified version of the CSR format but requires complex
encoding for output matrices. Finally, SCNN, SparTen, and Eyeriss v2, exploit the
full two-sided sparsity, but, as explained previously, suffer from either inefficient
micro-architecture, no support for FC layers and nonunit stride convolutions,
complex PE design to incorporate compressed sparse column (CSC) compression
format, or systematic load imbalance. Phantom addresses all of these issues while
also providing higher performance and energy efficiency.
12.2
Phantom
This section describes the architecture and inner workings of the Phantom core.
As mentioned earlier in the chapter, the Phantom core in itself provides two major
contributions. First, it considers both activation and weight sparsity simultane-
ously and looks ahead into future computations to determine only the valid MAC
operations (non-zerow × non-zeroa). Second, because of the multithreaded design
of the PEs, the scheduling of data into each thread is handled dynamically in a
nonlinear fashion, based on the sparsity of input and weight matrices. This ensures
that only valid computations are mapped on to the multithreaded PEs and that the
compute cycles are not wasted. This is opposed to the designs which schedule data
into the PEs in a constant manner and gate the computations whenever zeros are
read, thereby, wasting the compute cycles.
Figure 12.1 shows a 3 × 3 convolution example, where a 3 × 8 input is con-
volved with a 3 × 3 filter to produce a 1 × 6 output. The six individual convolution
chunks which produce the output are also shown. The effective and ineffective

--- Strana 209 ---
12.2 Phantom
191
0
Conv
Chunk 0
(C0)
Conv
Chunk 3
(C3)
Conv
Chunk 1
(C1)
Conv
Chunk 4
(C4)
Conv
Chunk 2
(C2)
Conv
Chunk 5
(C5)
wb0 wc0
wa1
a0
a1
a2
0
0
b1
b2
c0
c1
e1
h1
0
0
0
d0
f0
g0
h0
0
0
0
d2
e2
f2
wb1 wc1
wa2
O0
O1
O2
O3 O4
O5
O2
O5
O1
O4
O0
0*a0
wb0*0
0*b2
0*0
wc0*c0
wc1*c1
wb1*b1
wa1*a1
wa2*a2
0*d0
wb0*0
0*e2
0*f2
wc0*f0
wc1*0
wb1*e1
wa1*0
wa2*d2
0*0
wb0*c0
0*0
0*d2
wc0*d0
wc1*0
wb1*c1
wa1*b1
wa2*b2
0*0
wb0*f0
0*f2
0*0
wc0*g0
wc1*0
wb1*0
wa1*e1
wa2*e2
0*c0
wb0*d0
0*d2
0*e2
wc0*0
wc1*e1
wb1*0
wa1*c1
wa2*0
0*f0
wb0*g0
0*0
0*0
wc0*h0
wc1*h1
wb1*0
wa1*0
wa2*f2
O3
Convolution Chunks
0
0
Weight matrix (W)
Input activation matrix (IA)
Output matrix (O)
=
*
Figure 12.1
3 × 3 convolution example.
multiplications are shown in light gray and dark gray, respectively. It can be
seen that, on average, 55% computations involve multiplication with zeros which
result in wasted compute cycles. This causes a significant drop in the effective
throughput, as many cycles are wasted in zero multiplications. The Phantom
core addresses this issue and uses look-ahead masking to maximize the effective
throughput by skipping ineffectual computations involving zeros.
12.2.1
Sparse Mask Representation
Unlike the recent approaches that use compressed sparse row (CSR) or CSC
formats to represent non-zero data [43, 44, 53], we use a binary mask called sparse
mask for both weight and activation data. Sparse mask provides an efficient and
simplistic way for data representation and enables identification of zero and
nonzero data without explicitly storing zeros. It also does not require storage of
count and data pointers which are needed for CSC (and CSR) formats. Figure 12.2
shows the equivalent sparse mask representation and storage of the input and
the weight matrix shown in Figure 12.1. For a particular matrix, two arrays are
stored in the column major format. The data array contains the nonzero data,
whereas the binary array contains the sparse mask. The ones in the sparse mask
array represent the location of stored nonzero values, whereas zeros represent
unstored zero data. To process a specific type of convolution, the sparse mask and
the data array is broken into chunks and scheduled to the core. Although, the
core can work on any type of CONV or FC layers, for ease of understanding, we
will explain the working of Phantom core using the 3 × 3 unit stride convolution
example, shown in Figure 12.1.

--- Strana 210 ---
192
12 Phantom: A High-Performance Computational Core for Sparse CNNs
Weight matrix storage (Column major)
Input matrix storage (Column major)
W
SPMW
IA
SPMIA
wa1
0 1 1 1 1 0
0
1 1
wa2wb0wb1wc0 wc1
a0 a1 a2
c0 c1
e1 e2 f0 f2 g0 h0 h1
d0 d2
b1 b2
1 1 1
1 1
0
0
0
1 1
1
0
1
1
0
0 0
0
1
1
1
1
1 1
Figure 12.2
Sparse mask representation.
12.2.2
Core Architecture
Phantom core accepts data in the sparse mask format and consists of five main
blocks, as shown in Figure 12.3. The lookahead mask (LAM) and the top-down
selector (TDS) blocks use the sparse mask to extract the information about the valid
computations and thread selection. The thread mapper (TM) uses the information
from the previous blocks to efficiently map input and weight data onto the data
registers of the multiplier threads within the compute engine (CE). The CE consists
of an array of multithreaded PEs and level 1 (L1) configurable adders. The output
buffer (OB) block consists of an array of FIFO buffers and level 2 (L2) accumulators
which generate the final output.
12.2.3
Lookahead Masking
Dot product between two vectors is the basic unit of computation in a convolution
operation. Considering two-sided sparsity, there are four possible multiplication
outcomes as a result of sparse vector-vector dot product.
(A) zerow × zeroa
(B) zerow × non-zeroa
(C) non-zerow × zeroa
(D) non-zerow × non-zeroa
The only valid multiplication is when a nonzero weight data is multiplied by a
nonzero activation data. As the name implies, the lookahead mask (LAM) block
looks ahead into n convolution chunks to determine the locations of valid mul-
tiplications. We refer to the value n as the lookahead factor (Lf ).1 To perform its
Lookahead
masking
(LAM)
Top-down
delector
(TDS)
Thread
mapping
(TM)
Compute
engine
(CE)
Output
buffer
(OB)
SPM
and
data output
SPM
and
data input
Phantom core
Figure 12.3
Phantom block diagram.
1 Notations n and Lf will be used interchangeably throughout the text.

--- Strana 211 ---
12.2 Phantom
193
0
1
1
1
1
1
1
0
&
0
0
0
1
1
1
1
1
LAM = SPMIA1 & SPMW
= 011, 010, 110
LAM = SPMIA2 & SPMW
= 011, 010, 100
LAM = SPMIA3 & SPMW
= 010, 100, 010
0
0
0
1
1
1
1
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
1
LAM = SPMIA4 & SPMW
= 001, 010, 100
LAM = SPMIA5 & SPMW
= 011, 100, 100
LAM = SPMIA6 & SPMW
= 001, 100, 110
0
0
0
1
1
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
1
1
1
1
0
1
0
1
1
1
1
1
0
1
1
0
1
1
0
0
1
1
0
SPMW
SPMIA
SPMIA4
SPMIA5
SPMIA6
SPMIA1
SPMIA2
SPMIA3
Figure 12.4
ANDing of sparse masks.
task, the LAM block performs an AND operation between the sparse masks of
the weight matrix and the input chunks to generate output masks. Figure 12.4
shows the process of ANDing. Here, SPMW and SPMIA are the sparse masks of the
weight and the input matrix of the example in Figure 12.1. Six output chunks are
generated based on the AND operation.
To perform this ANDing, the LAM consists of a series of n AND gates, as shown
in Figure 12.5a. Bitwise ANDing is performed between the weight and the acti-
vation sparse mask. For this example, we set the value of n to 3. This means that
to generate six output masks in Figure 12.4, two cycles will be needed for the six
AND operations.
Figure 12.5b shows the output of LAM for the test example. The n = 3 AND gates
produce outputs (LAM1, LAM2, LAM3) on every cycle edge. It takes two cycles to
slide over the entire 3 × 8 activation matrix. The ones in the outputs of AND gates
represent the location of a valid vector-vector dot product, whereas the zeros rep-
resent a product resulting in a zero. Overall, it can be seen that by using a sequence
of n-AND gates, we can accurately determine the positions of valid computations
in n convolution chunks.
12.2.4
Top-Down Selector
The top-down selector (TDS) receives the LAM outputs on every cycle edge and
selects a subsequence of LAM outputs that can maximize the utilization of mul-
tiplier threads in the PEs within the CE. There are a total of p parallel selectors,
with p equal to the total number of PEs in the CE. In this design, we consider p = 3,
since there are a total of three PEs in the CE. We develop two selection algorithms
for the TDS block namely, in-order selection and out-of-order selection.

--- Strana 212 ---
194
12 Phantom: A High-Performance Computational Core for Sparse CNNs
LAM1
LAM1  = 011 , 010 , 110  (SPMW  AND1 SPMIA1)
LAM3  = 011 , 110 , 100  (SPMW  AND2 SPMIA1)
LAM3  = 010 , 100 , 010  (SPMW  AND3 SPMIA3)
LAM1  = 001 , 010 , 100  (SPMW  AND1 SPMIA4)
LAM2  = 011 , 100 , 100  (SPMW  AND2 SPMIA5)
LAM3  = 001 , 100 , 110  (SPMW AND3 SPMIA6)
2nd
cycle
2nd
cycle
1st
cycle
1st
cycle
SPMIAn+3
SPMW
SPMIAn+2
SPMW
SPMIAn+1
SPMW
SPMIA3
SPMW
SPMIA2n
SPMW
SPMIAn
SPMW
SPMIA2
SPMW
SPMIA2
SPMW
AND1
AND2
AND3
ANDn
LAM2 LAM3
LAMn
(a)
(b)
Bitwise ANDing between
W and IA chunks sparse
masks
Case for n = 3
(test example)
Figure 12.5
Lookahead
masking: (a) Sequence of
parallel AND gates and
(b) output for test case.
12.2.4.1
In-Order Selection
Figure 12.6a shows the process of in-order selection. The three selectors work on
the three comma-separated columns in parallel. The selection is performed iter-
atively in an ordered fashion on the entire column in a top-down manner. For
column 1 in Figure 12.6a, the first selector loops through the first n elements in
the current iteration, i.e., 011 (black), 011 (dark gray), and 010 (light gray). Here,
n equals the lookahead factor (Lf ), which is three in this design. The first 011
(in black) is assigned the highest priority and is selected. The selector counts the
LAM1 =
LAM2 =
LAM3 =
LAM1 =
LAM2 =
LAM3 =
011
000
001
000
000
011
011
000
000
011
001
1
2
1
1
2
2
3
3
3
4
011
011
010
010
110
100
010
001
100
100
110
100
010
100
100
110
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
LAM1 =
LAM2 =
LAM3 =
LAM1 =
LAM2 =
LAM3 =
011
001
1
1
2
2
1
1
2
2
3
3
3
011
011
010
010
110
100
010
001
100
100
110
100
010
100
100
110
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
010
000
001
66%
100%
100%
33%
1st itr
2nd itr
3rd itr
011
001
000
000
011
011
010
000
001
100%
100%
100%
1st itr
2nd itr
3rd itr
4th itr
2nd
cycle
(a)
(b)
1st
cycle
2nd
cycle
1st
cycle
In-order selection output
for first column
Util. %
Out-of-order selection output
for first column
Util. %
Figure 12.6
Top down selector (a) In-order selection and (b) out-of-order selection.

--- Strana 213 ---
12.2 Phantom
195
number of ones from this entry and stores the result. The selector then proceeds to
the next entry, i.e., 011 (in dark gray), and counts the number of ones. If the com-
bined sum of the number of ones of the current and the previous entry is greater
than n, the current and the next entries, in the current iteration are not consid-
ered, and instead, replaced by zeros. Here, we see that 011 (in black) + 011 (in dark
gray) = 4 > (n = 3). Therefore, only the first 011 (in black) is selected and the rest
two entries are replaced by zeros in the first iteration. Here, every 1 in the selected
output corresponds to a valid multiplication. Since, there are a total of three mul-
tiplier threads within a single PE, if the selected values contain a total of three 1s,
then all the threads within a PE are utilized, giving a utilization of 100% (as shown
in Figure 12.6a). The utilization decreases if the order in which the entries appear
do not align with the priority of selection. The circles around the values and the
numbers on top represent the iteration number during which the particular value
was selected by the selector. In the second iteration, the selector goes on to the
first unselected value (011 in dark gray) and follows the same selection process.
It takes a total of four iterations (cycles) for the selector to select all the values in
the first column, as shown in Figure 12.6a. We can also see that the second and
the third columns require a total of three cycles for selection, but need to wait one
additional cycle for the selection of the first column to complete. This can cause
computational idling and underutilization of the PE multipliers.
12.2.4.2
Out-of-Order Selection
In-order selection is highly dependent on the order in which the inputs appear.
This can lead to underutilization of the multiplier threads in the PE, as shown in
Figure 12.6a. Figure 12.6b shows the out-of-order selection method, where after
the selection of the first entry (011 in black), all next entries (011 in dark gray,
010 in light gray) in an iteration are considered for selection. Therefore, as shown
in Figure 12.6b, in the first iteration, after the selection of 011(in black), the next
value 011 (in dark gray) is not considered (011 + 011 = 4 > n), but the subse-
quent value 010 (in light gray) is considered because 011(in black) + 010 (in light
gray) ≤n. This small, yet efficient change greatly improves the thread utilization
and consequently the throughput, as shown in Figure 12.6b. Figure 12.7 shows
the implementation of the out-of-order selection variant of the TDS for the first
column in Figure 12.6b. A small block memory, having independent read and
write ports, receives the LAM outputs on every cycle. P1 and P2 are the high and
low priorities, respectively. The read address (rd_addr) of the memory increments
every time a value is selected and the tag bits are set to 1 for those values. The tag
bits serve the purpose of accumulation during the output buffering (explained in
Section 12.2.7). The priority of selection is reversed on the next input to ensure
that the values missed in the previous iteration are given the highest priority in
the current iteration. map11, map12, and map13 are the final outputs, as shown in

--- Strana 214 ---
196
12 Phantom: A High-Performance Computational Core for Sparse CNNs
Initial
state
011
Out-of-
order
selector
rd_addr = 0, tag = 0, out = x
rd_addr = 1, tag = 1, out = 011
rd_addr = 0, tag = 0, out = 000
rd_addr = 1, tag = 1, out = 010
rd_addr = 2, tag = 1, out = 001
rd_addr = 1, tag = 1, out = 011
rd_addr = 1, tag = 0, out = 000
rd_addr = 2, tag = 1, out = 000
000 011 001
001 011 000
011 000010
rd_addr = 2, tag = 1, out = 011
rd_addr = 2, tag = 1, out = 001
rd_addr = 0, tag = 0, out = x
rd_addr = 0, tag = 0, out = x
Out-of-
order
selector
Out-of-
order
selector
Out-of-
order
selector
011
010
001
011
001
011
011
001
001
011
011
011
011
001
010
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
P1
P2
P2
P1
P2
P2
P1
P2
P2
P1
P2
P2
2
Block Memory 1
map11
map12
map13=
=
=
Block Memory 2
Block Memory 3
1
selected
selected
not selected
selected
selected
selected
selected
selected
not selected
0
wr-addr/rd_addr
wr_addr increments
every cycle.
rd_addr controlled by
the selector.
Tag bits set upon
selection and used during
accumulation.
2nd
cycle
1st
cycle
3rd
cycle
010
011
011
010
001
Figure 12.7
Out-of-order selection implementation.
LAM1
011
=
010
110
,
,
LAM2
011
=
110
100
,
,
LAM3
010
=
100
010
,
,
LAM1
Maps to
map11,12,13
Maps to
map21,22,33
Maps to
map31,32,33
TDS
(Out-of-order
selection)
map11 = 011 000 010
map21 = 010 110 000
map31 = 110 100000
map12 = 001 011 000
map22 = 010 100 100
map32 = 100 100 010
map13 = 000011 001
map23 = 000000100
map33 = 000000 110
001
=
010
100
,
,
LAM2
011
=
100
100
,
,
LAM3
001
=
100
110
,
,
Figure 12.8
TDS out-of-order variant input-output.
Figure 12.8. The hardware overhead of the out-of-order selector is roughly 1.03×
that of the in-order selector variant, but can increase the hardware utilization by
as much as 60%. Phantom, therefore, employs the out-of-order selection variant of
the TDS for higher thread utilization and efficient mapping.
12.2.5
Thread Mapper
The Thread Mapper (TM) takes the input from the TDS (map1x, map2x, and map3x)
and uses this information to map the length equalized sparse data (weight and

--- Strana 215 ---
12.2 Phantom
197
activation) onto the internal registers of the multithreaded PEs. The length equal-
ization is done by adding appropriate zeros at specific locations using the sparse
masks. Figure 12.9 shows the map operation for the three PEs in this design. Out
of the 29 = 512 combinations, the mapper only needs to store those for which the
total number of ones do not exceed the multiplier count of each PE (3 in this case).
This drastically reduces the total combinations needed to be stored (
(
9
0
)
+
(
9
1
)
+
(
9
2
)
+
(
9
3
)
= 130, a 74% reduction in the memory footprint). Each PE has a 50 bit
internal register, out of which, 48 bits are the data bits, and 2 bits are the L1 adder
control bits. The first 48 bits are divided into a set of 16 bits (8 bits for both activa-
tions and weights). The total memory requirement for storage of all three mappers
is approximately 2.5 kB. One key observation from Figure 12.9 is that the mappers
2 and 3 map the data in a similar fashion as the mapper 1, but only use different
location bits for weights and data. We, therefore, remove the two mappers (map2x
and map3x), and only use one mapper (map1x) sequentially three times, and adjust-
ing the location bits afterwards. This only incurs an initial latency of two cycles but
reduces the memory footprint by approximately 66% (2.5 to 0.83 kB). Appropriate
delay registers are added in the PEs to account for the initial delay.
12.2.6
Compute Engine
The Phantom core uses a multithreaded CE block. In this particular design, the
CE block consists of three multi-threaded PEs, with each PE containing three
multiplier threads, as shown in Figure 12.10a. The mapper maps the data to the
individual threads which perform independent computations. The outputs of the
threads, local to a particular PE, are provided to the L1 adder. The L1 adder is pro-
vided by the configuration bits from the last 2 bits of the mapper (Figure 12.9).
There are four cases for the configuration bits:
C1: 00 →The individual outputs of the multiplier threads within the PE are not
added and simply passed.
C2: 01 →The outputs of the first two multiplier threads (th0,x,th1,x) are added,
whereas, the third one (th2,x) is passed as is.
C3: 10 →the outputs of th1,x and th2,x are added and the output of th0,x is passed
as is.
C4: 11 →the outputs of all the multiplier threads are added.
Figure 12.10b shows the cycle by cycle scheduling of the multiplier threads with
data (weights and activations) mapped using the logic in Figure 12.9. The mapping
inputs (map11, etc.) and L1 adder configuration outputs are also shown. It can be
seen that all the multiplier threads are efficiently utilized even though the output
is 55% sparse (counting number of zeros from the left side of Figure 12.8, 30/54).
The hardware utilization during the first and second cycle is 100%, whereas, for

--- Strana 216 ---
Config bits
Data bits
000
map1x to PE0 threads
map2x to PE1 threads
map3x to PE1 threads
Bits
W
IA1
IA2
IA3
0
wa1
wa2
0
0
wc0
wc1
wb0
wb1
a0
0
c0
a1
b1
c1
a2
b2
0
0
c0
d0
b1
c1
0
b2
0
d2
c0
d0
0
c1
0
e1
0
d2
e2
[71:64]
[63:56]
[55:48]
[47:40]
[39:32]
[31:24]
[23:16]
[15:8]
[7:0]
000 000
000
{48’d0,2’b00}
{16’d0,16’d0,
{IA1[63:56],w[63:56],
IA1[55:48],w[55:48],
IA3[63:56],w[63:56],2’b01}
{IA1[71:64],w[71:64],
IA1[63:56],w[63:56],
IA1 [55:48],w[55:48],2’b11}
{16’d0, IA3[63:56],w[63:56],
IA3 [55:48],w[55:48],2’b00}
IA3 [55:48],w[55:48],2’b10}
{48’d0,2’b00}
{16’d0,16’d0,
{IA1[39:32],w[39:32],
IA1[31:24],w[31:24],
IA3[39:32],w[39:32],2’b01}
{IA1[47:40],w[47:40],
IA1[39:32],w[39:32],
IA1 [31:24],w[31:24],2’b11}
{16’d0, IA3[39:32],w[39:32],
IA3[31:24],w[31:24],2’b00}
IA3[31:24],w[31:24],2’b10}
{48’d0,2’b00}
{16’d0,16’d0,
{IA1[15:8],w[15:8],
IA1[7:0],w[7:0],
IA3[15:8],w[15:8],2’b01}
{IA1[23:16],w[23:16],
IA1[15:8],w[15:8],
IA1[7:0],w[7:0],2’b11}
{16’d0, IA3[15:8],w[15:8],
IA3[23:16],w[23:16],2’b00}
IA3[7:0],w[7:0],2’b10}
000 001
000 000 011
011 000 010
111 000 000
000 000 000
000 000 001
000 000 011
011 000 010
111 000 000
000 000 000
000 000 001
000 000 011
011 000 010
111 000 000
Figure 12.9
Thread mapping.

--- Strana 217 ---
12.2 Phantom
199
Compute engine
PE0
th2,0
th1,0
th0,0
Config bits
01
10
01
10
00
00
01
00
10
2nd
cycle
3rd
cycle
1st
cycle
L1
Add
(a)
(b)
map31
map32
map33
map21
map22
map23
map11
wa1
wa1
c1
wa2
wa2
wa2
wa1
a1
a2
b2
d2
b1
wa1
wa2
wa2
f2
e1
e2
wb1
wb1
c1
wb0
wb1
wb0
wb0
b1
c0
d0
e1
f0
wb0
wb0
wb0
g0
0
0
wc0
wc0
d0
wc1
wc0
wc1
wc0
c0
c1
e1
f0
g0
wc0
wc1
wc0
h1
0
h0
map12
map13
PE1
th2,1
th1,1
th0,1
Config bits
L1
Add
PE2
th1,2
th2,2
th0,2
Config bits
L1
Add
Figure 12.10
Compute engine (a) Multithreaded design and (b) scheduling for example
in Figure 12.1.
the third cycle, it is 66%. The reason for low utilization in the last cycle is because
the input is at the boundary and the LAM block does not have more data to look
ahead into.
12.2.7
Output Buffer
The final block in the Phantom core is the output buffer (OB). OB is responsi-
ble for buffering the outputs of the CE, and accumulation of data using the L2
adder to generate the final outputs. The buffering is performed using a system of
m first-in, first out (FIFO) buffers, where m is equal to the total number of mul-
tiplier threads in the CE (9). Figure 12.11 shows the OB block for the example
in Figure 12.1. F1-F9 are the 9 fifos receiving data from the L1 adders in the CE.
The ones (in light gray) and zeros (in dark gray) within the parenthesis represent
the tag bits which were set by the TDS block, as shown in Figure 12.7. Accu-
mulation is performed in two stages by the same colored fifos (F1 + F4 + F7),
(F2 + F5 + F8), and (F3 + F6 + F9). The outputs are either valid or partial, based
on the associated tags. If the tags of all the values being accumulated are equal to 1,
the output is considered valid, otherwise, it is considered partial. For the example

--- Strana 218 ---
200
12 Phantom: A High-Performance Computational Core for Sparse CNNs
Output buffer
CE
Outputs
L2
Adder
F1
F2
F3
d2wa2
a1wa1 +
a2wa2 
e1wa +
e2w2
f2wa2
c1wa1
b1wa1 +
b2wa2
0
0
e1wb1
b1wb1
g0wb0
d0wb0
0
g0wc0
d0wc0
f0wc0
0
0
0
0
f0wb0
c0wb0 +
c1wb1
c0wc0 +
c1wc1
h0wc0 +
h1wc1
e1wc1
0
0
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(0)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
F6
F4
F5
F9
F7
F8
L1 Add
L1 Add
L1 Add
Figure 12.11
Output buffer for example in Figure 12.1.
Cycle 1
(a1wa1+a2wa2) (1) + (b1wb1)(1) + (c0wc0+c1wc1)(1) = O0(valid)
(0) (0) + (c0wb0 + c1wb1)(1) + (d0wc0)(1) = O1(partial)
(c1wa1) (1) + (0)(0) + (0)(0) = O2(partial)
Cycle 2
(d2wa2) (1) + (e1wb1)(1) + (f0wc0)(1) = O3(valid)
(b1wa1+b2wa2) (1) + O1(partial) = O1(valid)
(0)(0) + (f0wb0)(1) + (g0wc0)(1) = O4(partial)
O2(partial) + (d0wb0)(1) + (e1wc1)(1) = O2(valid)
(0)(0) + (0)(0) + (0)(0) = O5(partial)
Cycle 3
(0)(1) + (0)(1) + (0)(1) = Outputs Exhausted
(e1wa1 + e2wa2)(1) + O4(partial) = O4(valid)
(0)(1) + (0)(1) + (0)(1) = Outputs Exhausted
(f2wa2)(1) + (g0wb0)(1) + (h0wc0 + h1wc1)(1) + O5(partial) = O5(valid)
(0)(1) + (0)(1) + (0)(1) = Outputs Exhausted
Figure 12.12
L2 accumulation for the example in Figure 12.1.

--- Strana 219 ---
12.3 Phantom-2D
201
in Figure 12.1, the outputs in L2 adder are calculated as shown in Figure 12.12.
The two stages of accumulation are also shown. In the first stage, the previously
accumulated partial output is added to the new entry in the fifo to make the out-
put valid. This is done by checking the tag bits in the partial output and adding the
missing tag 1 in the new value to generate the valid output from partial output. In
the second stage, new partial values are generated by replacing the used tag 1 value
in the first stage by 0 and accumulating the rest of the tag 1 values. The process
ends once the input is exhausted and all the tag 1 values have been accumulated
to generate valid outputs.
12.2.8
Output Encoding
Figure 12.13 shows the process of output sparse mask generation. Unlike the
weights, the output activation sparsity is dynamic and the sparse mask needs
to be generated on-the-fly. From Figure 12.4, we can see that the presence of
even a single one in the LAM outputs represent a nonzero output. To determine
the output sparse mask, the same metadata can be used. The first step involves
reduction of the individual LAM outputs to a single bit (LAMxr), based on an
all-zero check, as shown in Figure 12.13a. This generates the sparse mask for the
outputs before ReLU. Note that the LAM values are taken from the test example
(Figure 12.1). Figure 12.13b shows the second step after ReLU, where the negative
outputs, and their corresponding sparse mask locations, are converted into zeros.
This final sparse mask is stored as is, whereas the output is shifted first to omit
zero data entries, and then stored.
This concludes the processing in a single Phantom core. In Section 12.3, we will
introduce Phantom-2D; a two-dimensional accelerator having a system of Phan-
tom cores for processing CNN layers during the inference process.
12.3
Phantom-2D
Section 12.2 describe the working of the various blocks in the Phantom core. The
individual core works by computing a dot product between a weight matrix and
LAM
Reduction
1
O0
O2
O3
O5
O1
O4
O0
O2
O3
O5
0
0
1
1
1
ReLU
1
1
1
0
1
1
0
1
(a)
0
1
000 000 000
Otherwise
(b)
LAM1r
LAM1c
Outputs (assume red outputs are negative)
LAM2c LAM3c LAM1c LAM2c LAM3c
LAM2r
LAM3r
LAM1r
LAMxr
LAMx
If LAMx  = All Zeros
    LAMxr  = 0
else
    LAMxr  = 1
LAM2r
LAM3r
LAM1
LAM2
LAM3
LAM1
LAM2
LAM3
9-bits to 1-bit
reduction
Figure 12.13
Output sparse mask generation.

--- Strana 220 ---
202
12 Phantom: A High-Performance Computational Core for Sparse CNNs
Inter-Core
Balancer
and
scheduler
L3 Adder0
Ph0_0
Ph1_0
Ph2_0
Ph3_0
Ph4_0
Ph5_0
Ph6_0
Ph0_1
Ph1_1
Ph2_1
Ph3_1
Ph4_1
Ph5_1
Ph6_1
Ph0_2
Ph1_2
Ph2_2
Ph3_2
Ph4_2
Ph5_2
Ph6_2
Ph0_3
C
Ph1_3
Ph2_3
Ph3_3
Ph4_3
Ph5_3
Ph6_3
R
L3 Adder1
L3 Adder2
L3 Adder3
L3 Adder4
L3 Adder5
L3 Adder6
Input and weight SRAMs
Output SRAMs
Figure 12.14
Phantom-2D architecture.
a subsection of the input feature map to compute a subsection of the output fea-
ture map. To compute the full output feature map, corresponding to a particular
layer, we design a two-dimensional accelerator comprising of the Phantom cores,
which we refer to as Phantom-2D, as shown in Figure 12.14. We envision that the
Phantom-2D accelerator connects to a memory bus and accepts data and instruc-
tions from a CPU. The accelerator contains on-chip SRAMs (weight, input, and
output), the inter-Core balancer and scheduler, the R × C compute matrix, com-
prising of Phantom cores, and the accumulator circuits.
12.3.1
R × C Compute Matrix
The compute unit consists of an R × C matrix of the Phantom cores and R adders
for channel accumulation. The design choice for R and C, and the dataflow asso-
ciated with the transfer of data across various Phantom cores, is based on the
following design goals:
G1: To maximize the data reuse (weights and input) across multiple input subsec-
tions.
G2: To optimize the data scheduling across various Phantom cores to maximize
the theoretical hardware utilization.
G3: To support all layers of a CNN. This includes support for a variety of CONV
layers and the FC layers.

--- Strana 221 ---
12.3 Phantom-2D
203
Looking deeper into the dimensions and configurations of various popular CNN
models (VGGnet [31], Resnet [32], MobileNets [33, 34], Googlenet [35], etc.), we
observe that the channel count for various CNN layers is almost always a multiple
of 4. In the Phantom-2D architecture, the channels in a CNN layer are broken
along the columns. Therefore, to ensure that the cores are engaged most of the
time, and thus, satisfy G2, we set the C value equal to 4. Similar rationale applies
for the choice of R = 7. The input subsections are broken along the vertical axis
and distributed along the rows. Most of the popular CNNs have an input layer size
(width or height) S, a multiple of 7, thus, having R = 7, ensures equal distribution
of chunks of data among all the cores.
12.3.2
Load Balancing
The design choice for R × C matrix is highly dependent on the layer dimensions of
various CNNs. It, however, has no relevance to the static and dynamic sparsity in
weights and inputs, respectively. Efficient reuse of data is one of the key require-
ments to minimize the memory accesses, repeatedly, for the same data. This reuse,
however, amplifies the computational imbalance among different PEs. If the same
filter is held in the local memory of the PEs and the input subsections are swept
across the PEs, the subsections with higher density would inevitably take more
cycles to compute the output, compared to the PEs receiving the subsections with
lower density. This varying sparsity of the input maps would create a system-level
load imbalance among the PEs which would be exposed during the next filter
broadcast. Holding the input maps and sweeping the filters would also have sim-
ilar results, as would the buffering of data. In order to address this system-level
load imbalance, we incorporate a two-level load balancing strategy in the Phantom
architecture. The Inter-Core balancer (Figure 12.14), balances the computational
load dynamically using the density of the weight matrix such that each phan-
tom core works on the weight matrices with the same/similar density over the
CNN layers (as described in Section 12.3.3.1 with an example). This balancing
is only performed when the weight data is actively being reused (e.g., in regular
and depthwise separable CONV). The second balancer, referred to as Intra-Core
balancer, is local to each core, and performs columnwise balancing of the weight
matrix. This balancer is always enabled, regardless of the layer, and significantly
improves the individual multiplier thread scheduling performed by the TDS.
In Sections 12.3.3–12.3.6, we demonstrate, with examples, the designed dataflow
for various CONV and FC layers. We choose the input sizes that fit well with the
layer sizes of actual CNNs. We also show how the balancing is performed to pre-
vent idling of the cores, which in turn, maximizes the throughput, all the while
ensuring high data reuse.

--- Strana 222 ---
204
12 Phantom: A High-Performance Computational Core for Sparse CNNs
12.3.3
Regular/Depthwise Convolution
Figure 12.15 shows a 3 × 3 depthwise separable convolution example, where 4,
3 × 3 filters are convolved with a 9 × 5 × 4 input to generate a 7 × 3 × 4 output. We
choose these size parameters as an example because they fit well when consider-
ing the layer sizes of the actual CNNs. The figure also shows the scheduling and
mapping of data on to the R × C matrix. The input is broken down into n chunks
along the rows, where n is the number of rows of the output. These n chunks are
then scheduled along the rows of the R × C matrix. Each Phantom core processes
a 3 × 5 input chunk to generate a 1 × 3 output chunk. The filters F0 to F3 represent
the channel wise filters, with each column of the R × C matrix processing a differ-
ent channel. The reuse of filters (G1) along the rows is also shown. The nonunit
stride convolutions follow the same dataflow. Because of the efficient dataflow
and choice of the R × C dimensions, all Phantom cores are provided data for a
particular processing chunk, thereby, achieving a 100% intercore utilization (G2).
12.3.3.1
Intercore Balancing
The intercore balancing is performed for the layers that support filter reuse
because of the static nature of the weights. In the proposed dataflow, the layers
that support filter reuse are the regular and the depthwise separable convolution
layers. As shown in Figure 12.15, each R × C matrix column, at any given time,
processes the same filter. The filters are scheduled in a low latency, more dense and
high latency, less dense approach. Assuming that during the first iteration, the four
filters (F0, F1, F2, F3) are broadcasted and the first column’s processing latency is
the lowest. In the next filter broadcast, the next set of filters will be broadcasted
in such a way that the filter with the highest density and the associated input
channel will be scheduled to the first column. In a similar fashion, as the columns
proceed to completion, the next filters are scheduled based on the order of their
completion. This ensures that the processing completes uniformly across all the
columns so that the idle time for the individual phantom cores is minimized.
Computation of density is trivial as it involves finding the total number of ones in
the sparse mask of the filters, and thus, requires minimal resources.
12.3.4
Pointwise Convolution
Figure 12.16 shows a pointwise convolution example where a set of 1 × 1 × 36 × 7
sparse filters convolve with a 3 × 3 × 36 sparse input to produce a 3 × 3 × 7 output.
These dimensional parameters are a good representative of the layer dimensions
of actual CNNs. Figure 12.16 also shows the dataflow and the mapping of the var-
ious computations involved for this example. It can be seen that the 7 filters are
scheduled along the 7 rows of the Phantom cores with each row processing equal

--- Strana 223 ---
12.3 Phantom-2D
205
F3
core0_0
core0_1
core0_2
core0_3
core1_0
core1_1
core1_2
core1_3
core6_0
core6_1
core6_2
core6_3
4
4
4
9
7
3
*
=
5
F0
F0
F1
F2
F3
F0
F1
F2
F3
F0
F1
F2
F3
3
3
3
3
3
3
5
5
3
1
5
5
Filter reuse
Filter reuse
Filter reuse
Filter reuse
Filter reuse
Filter reuse
Filter reuse
Filter reuse
ORow0,3
ORow0,3
ORow0,2
ORow0,1
ORow0,0
ORow1,3
ORow1,2
ORow1,1
ORow1,0
ORow0,0
Row0,0
Row0,0
Row1,0
Row2,0
Row0,1
Row1,1
Row2,1
Row0,2
Row1,2
Row2,2
Row0,3
Row1,3
Row2,3
3
3
3
3
1
5
5
3
ORow6,3
ORow6,2
ORow6,1
ORow6,0
1
3
5
5
Row1,0
Row2,0
Row3,0
Row1,1
Row2,1
Row3,1
Row1,2
Row2,2
Row3,2
Row1,3
Row2,3
Row3,3
3
3
3
3
5
5
5
5
Row6,0
Row7,0
Row8,0
Row6,1
Row7,1
Row8,1
Row6,2
Row6,2
Row6,2
Row6,3
Row6,3
Row6,3
Row1,0
Row2,0
Row3,0
Row4,0
Row5,0
Row6,0
Row7,0
Row8,0
Row0,3
Row1,3
Row2,3
Row3,3
Row4,3
Row5,3
Row6,3
Row7,3
Row8,3
ORow1,0
ORow2,0
ORow3,0
ORow4,0
ORow5,0
ORow6,0
ORow1,3
ORow2,3
ORow3,3
ORow4,3
ORow5,3
ORow6,3
Figure 12.15
Regular/depthwise convolution.
.

--- Strana 224 ---
206
12 Phantom: A High-Performance Computational Core for Sparse CNNs
F0,0
F1,0
F6,0
F0,8
F0,0
F0,35
F1,35
F6,35
1
1
1
36
Col0,35
OCol0,6 OCol1,6 OCol2,6
OCol0,0
OCol0,0
OCol0,1
Col0,8
Col0,0
F0,17
F0,9
Col0,17
Col0,9
F0,26
F0,18
F0,35
F0,27
Col0,26
Col0,18
Col0,35
Col0,35
L3 Adder0
core0_3
core0_2
core0_1
Input reuse
Input reuse
Input reuse
Input reuse
core0_0
L3 Adder1
core1_3
core1_2
core1_1
core1_0
F0,8
F0,0
OCol0,6
Col0,8
Col0,0
F1,17
F1,9
Col0,17
Col0,9
F1,26
F1,18
F1,35
F1,27
Col0,26
Col0,18
Col0,35
Col0,35
F6,8
F6,0
Col0,8
Col0,0
F6,17
F6,9
Col0,17
Col0,9
Col0,26
Col0,18
F6,26
F6,18
F6,35
F6,27
Col0,35
Col0,35
Input reuse
Input reuse
Input reuse
Input reuse
L3 Adder6
core6_2
core6_3
core6_1
core6_0
OCol1,0 OCol2,0
Col0,0
Col1,0
Col2,0
Col1,35 Col2,35
7
3
3
=
3
3
1
1
1
*
Figure 12.16
Pointwise convolution.
number of channels along the columns. The channels are equally divided based
on the number of combined multiplier threads in each Phantom core. Since, in
this design, each Phantom core consists of 3 PEs, with each PE containing three
multipliers (Figure 12.10), the channels are divided equally into batches of nine
and scheduled along the columns to maximize the hardware utilization (G2). To
enhance data reuse (G1), each weight matrix is held locally in a particular core,
while the input is swept across it. The input is scheduled in a channel-first manner,
followed by rows, and then columns. Figure 12.16 only shows the generation of the
first column of the output. After all the rows for a particular channel have been

--- Strana 225 ---
12.3 Phantom-2D
207
exhausted, the next column is evaluated in a similar fashion till all the columns
have been swept through. The L3 adder circuit gathers all the partial outputs from
the cores along the columns to generate the required outputs.
12.3.5
FC Layers
FC layers are an inherent part of modern CNN designs and, therefore, need to be
accounted for in CNN accelerator designs (G3). AlexNet and VGG-16 both have
FC layers with activation vectors that are 4K long and weight matrix that is 4K ×
4K long. Similarly, Mobilenet has an FC layer with activation vector that is 1K long
and weight matrix that is 1K × 1K long. The FC parameters comprise of a total
of 24.3% of all the parameters in the Mobilenet. FC computations, therefore, are
crucial and need to be accounted for in CNN accelerator designs (G3). Figure 12.17
shows an FC computation example where a length 36 sparse input vector (R0-R35)
is element-wise convolved with a 36 × 49 sparse weight matrix to generate a length
49 output vector. Figure 12.17 also shows the dataflow and the computational
mapping of the example onto the Phantom cores in the Phantom-2D architecture.
Similar to the pointwise convolution, the input and the weight channels are
broken into four batches of length nine and scheduled across the columns.
The input vector, is held stationary (input stationary) across the rows and the
individual weight vectors are swept over the input vector to generate the partial
outputs. Similar accumulation is performed by the L3 adders to generate the
final outputs.
12.3.6
Intracore Balancing
The Intracore balancer performs thread-level balancing inside every Phantom
core. This is opposed to the Intercore balancer which performs balancing across
all the Phantom cores in the Phantom-2D architecture. Recall that the TDS
(Section 3.4) operates in a columnwise manner where each column of the LAM
outputs are evaluated concurrently, as shown in Figure 12.6. Also, recall that the
total number of ones selected by the TDS per column are less than or equal to the
number of multiplier threads per PE (3 in this case). Because of the columnwise
selection, the TDS latency is bounded by the column with the highest density.
Figure 12.18a shows a test example to explain the intracore balancing and its sig-
nificance. Figure 12.18b shows the core operation without any balancing. The first
column of the weight matrix has the highest density. This is also reflected in the
generated LAM values. This uneven distribution results in the first column taking
the highest number of cycles, whereas, the second and the third column selection
completing in only one cycle, as shown in Figure 12.18b. This stalls the core as the
core must wait for the first column to complete all three cycles before processing

--- Strana 226 ---
208
12 Phantom: A High-Performance Computational Core for Sparse CNNs
49
49
=
1
36
Input reuse
Input reuse
core0_0
core0_1
core0_2
core0_3
OC0v 6
OC0–6
OC7–13
OC14–20
OC24–27
OC28–34
OC35–41
OC42–48
1
7
1
L3 Adder0
Input reuse
Input reuse
Input reuse
Input reuse
Input reuse
Input reuse
36
R0–8
R9–17
R18–26
R0–8
R9–17
R18–26
R27–35
R0–8C0–6
R9–17C0–6
R18–26C0–6
R27–35C0–6
core1_0
core1_1
core1_2
core1_3
OC7–13
7
1
L3 Adder1
R0–8
R9–17
R18–26
R27–35
R0–8C7–13
R9–17C7–13
R18–26C7–13
R27–35C7–13
core6_0
core6_1
core6_2
core6_3
OC42–48
7
1
L3 Adder1
R0–8
R9–17
R18–26
R27–35
R0–8C42–48
R9–17C42–48
R18–26C42–48
R27–35C42–48
R27–35
R0–8C0–6
R9–17C0–6
R18–26C0–6
R27–35C0–6
R0–8C7–13
R9–17C7–13
R18–26C7–13
R27–35C7–13
R0–8C14–20
R9–17C14–20
R18–26C14–20
R27–35C14–20
R0–8C21–27
R9–17C21–27
R18–26C21–27
R27–35C21–27
R0–8C28–34
R9–17C28–34
R18–26C28–34
R27–35C28–34
R0–8C25–41
R9–17C25–41
R18–26C25–41
R27–35C25–41
R0–8C42–48
R9–17C42–48
R18–26C42–48
R27–35C42–48
*
Figure 12.17
FC layer processing.
the next block which significantly decreases the thread utilization of the core
(Valid Computations/(Cycles × PEs × ThreadsPerPE) = 9/(3 × 3 × 3) = 33%).
Figure 12.18c shows how the intracore balancer mitigates this issue by efficient
distribution of the load, prior to the TDS operation, in a relatively simplistic man-
ner. A right circular shift is performed on LAM2 and LAM3 values, as shown in
Figure 12.18c. This modifies the load distribution among the three LAM columns.

--- Strana 227 ---
12.4 Experiments and Results
209
wa0
LAM1
1st
cycle
1st
cycle
2nd
cycle
3rd
cycle
LAM1
111
000
000
111
000
000
111
000
000
,
,
,
,
,
,
=
LAM2=
LAM3=
map1x used by all PEs
(Index Change)
map1x used by all PEs
(No Index Change)
TDS
TDS
Right shift
(Intra-core)
Left shift
(Intra-core)
111
111
111
000
000
000
000
000
000
,
,
,
,
,
,
=
LAM2=
LAM3=
map11
111
000
000
000
000
000
000
000 000
=
map21 =
map31 =
map12
000
000
000
000
000
000
000
111 000
=
map22 =
map32 =
map13
000
000
000
000
000
000
000
000 111
=
map23 =
map33 =
map11
111
111
111
000
000
000
000
000 000
=
map12 =
map13 =
LAM1
111
111
111
000
000
000
000
000
000
,
,
,
,
,
,
=
LAM2=
LAM3=
1
2
3
1
1
1
1
1
wa1
wa2
a0
a1
a2
b0
b1
b2
c0
c1
c2
d0
d1
d2
e0
e1
e2
0
0
0
0
(a)
(b)
(c)
0
0
*
Figure 12.18
Intracore balancing (a) Test example, (b) without balancing, and (c) with
balancing.
Operation of the TDS this time ensures the selection of all three columns in one
cycle. A circular left shift is performed on the generated map inputs (map11 =
111 000 000, map12 = 000 111 000, map13 = 000 000 111) in the same manner
as the circular right shift in the first step to ensure a valid mapping by the mapper.
The updated map values, after shifting, are shown in Figure 12.18c. The updated
map values are then used in the map1x without adjustment in the location/index
(Section 3.5) to accurately map data to the individual threads. The thread utiliza-
tion of the core, in this case, increases drastically (Valid Computations/(Cycles ×
PEs × ThreadsPerPE) = 9/(1 × 3 × 3) = 100%). Finally, it should be noted that
the evaluation of the example in Figure 12.18 is performed with Lf = 3. However,
the same process follows for any value of Lf . We will further explore the com-
bined effect of both, the intercore, and the intra-core balancing, on performance,
in Section 5.
12.4
Experiments and Results
12.4.1
Evaluation Methodology
12.4.1.1
Cycle-Accurate Simulator
To accurately model the performance of an individual Phantom core and the
Phantom-2D accelerator, as a whole, we design a software-based, cycle-level

--- Strana 228 ---
210
12 Phantom: A High-Performance Computational Core for Sparse CNNs
Table 12.1
Operation parameters.
Operation
Level
Parameters
TDS
Phantom
TDS_inOrder
TDS_outOrder
Balancing
unbalanced
Phantom/
intra_core
Phantom-2D
inter_core
full(inter + intra)
Lookahead factor (Lf )
Phantom
3 ≤Lf ≤27
CNN models
Phantom-2D
dense
sparse
Table 12.2
Accelerator conﬁguration.
Conﬁguration parameter
Value
Compute matrix size
28 (7 × 4)
PEs per core
3
Multiplier threads per PE
3
Total multiplier threads
252
performance simulator. The simulator is parameterizable across various core and
architecture level design parameters to capture their effect on the performance.
Table 12.1 shows the modifiable design parameters. The operations are cate-
gorized as core level and architecture-level. Table 12.2 shows the arrangement
and configuration of the Phantom-2D accelerator’s compute matrix containing
Phantom cores.
The simulator has a set of five built-in test scenarios which covers the sweeping
of all the parameters shown in Table 12.1. The simulator also contains routines
for SparTen, SCNN, and Eyeriss v2 for performing comparisons. During the pro-
cessing of each layer, every Phantom core outputs seven values which includes the
total cycles by a dense design, the cycles of TDS in-order and TDS out-of-order, cou-
pled with two-level load balancing, and the average thread utilization for various
Phantom-2D configurations. The total cycle count for SparTen, SCNN, and Eyeriss
v2 is also outputted. The evaluation files in the simulator use the data provided by

--- Strana 229 ---
12.4 Experiments and Results
211
the individual routines and schedulers to generate the throughput and speedup
results for dense and sparse accelerator designs.
12.4.1.2
Simulated Models
Although we test our design on many CNN models including Alexnet [30], VGG16
[31], MobileNets [33, 34], GoogleNet [35], and recently proposed EfficientNetV2
[46], we present the results for sparse versions of VGG16 and MobileNet for com-
parison purposes. We use the approach presented in [46] to prune these networks
using the MATLAB’s Deep Learning Toolbox and ensure that we achieve the same
level of weight sparsity as previous approaches, for fair comparisons. The activa-
tion sparsity is highly dependent on the input and changes dynamically during the
inference process. We, therefore, average out the input sparsity for a batch of 100
randomly selected inputs. After pruning of the network, we generate the sparse
binary masks for every layer and generate a network containing only the sparse
masks, since only this information is needed to efficiently represent the MAC oper-
ations needed per layer for the Phantom-2D accelerator. The sparse masks are fed
into the simulator in the model dimensions (i.e., mapped to the dimension of each
CNN layer in the model). The simulator’s scheduler uses the dataflow for vari-
ous layers, presented in Figures 12.15–12.17, to break down the dimensions and
schedule the individual binary masks to different Phantom cores.
12.4.2
Results
We capture the simulator’s results in an incremental approach, starting from the
basic core-level configurations, and moving toward system-level configurations.
All the comparisons are made with an equivalent dense architecture, having an
equal number of MAC units, but without leveraging the sparse optimizations. At
the end, we compare different versions of Phantom-2D accelerator against previ-
ously proposed two-sided sparse architectures.
12.4.2.1
TDS Variants Comparison
Figure 12.19a shows the performance comparison of the two TDS variants, namely,
the in-order TDS (TDS-IO) and the out-of-order TDS (TDS-OO), evaluated on a
sparse VGG16 net. We set the lookahead factor (Lf ) for this test to six for both the
variants. The performance of the dense architecture can be modeled by setting the
Lf value equal to 1. This would ensure that no future computations are observed
by the TDS, thus, replicating a dense accelerator. It can be seen that the first layer
does not have any significant performance gains over a dense architecture because
of very low sparsity. The performance gains increase drastically in subsequent lay-
ers with TDS-IO variant, on average, being 4.5×, and the TDS-OO variant, being

--- Strana 230 ---
212
12 Phantom: A High-Performance Computational Core for Sparse CNNs
6
Dense
TDS_inOrder
TDS_outOrder
5
4
Speedup
3
2
1
0
Layer
1
Layer
2
Layer
3
Layer
4
Layer
5
Layer
6
Layer
7
Layer
8
Layer
9
Layer
10
Layer
11
Layer
12
Layer
13
Mean
(a)
VGG-16
6
7
8
9
20
18
16
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
Dense
TDS_inOrder
TDS_outOrder
Lf
5
4
Speedup
Lookahead factor (Lf)
3
2
1
0
1
2
3
4
5
(b)
Iterations
Figure 12.19
TDS-IO vs. TDS-OO (a) Per layer comparison with Lf = 6 and
(b) comparisons with changing Lf .
4.8× faster, than the equivalent dense architecture. This represents a 1.07× perfor-
mance improvement of TDS-OO over TDS-IO. The performance difference, how-
ever, improves substantially as Lf is increased, as shown in Figure 12.19b. We run
the VGG16 net a total of five times, and average out the speedups, while sweeping
Lf from 6 to 18, with a jump of three in every iteration. For Lf = 18, we observe
a 6.35× and a 7.9× performance gain of TDS-IO and TDS-OO, respectively, over
dense architecture, representing a 43% and a 68% increase, when switching from
Lf = 3 to Lf = 18, respectively. TDS-OO, for Lf = 18, gives a 1.24× performance
gain over TDS-IO, a jump of 16% from Lf = 6. These results are inline with our
preliminary observations in Section 3.4. The improvement in the core’s thread uti-
lization from TDS-OO directly correlates to the increase in performance. For the
next experiments, we will always use the TDS-OO variant.
12.4.2.2
Impact of Load Balancing
Figure 12.20 shows the impact of load balancing (intercore + intracore) on the per-
formance for sparse VGG16 and MobileNet with Lf = 6. During the initial layers
for both the CNNs, we observe a drastic improvement in performance (as much as
1.5× for VGG16 and 1.3× for MobileNet). On average, we observe a performance

--- Strana 231 ---
12.4 Experiments and Results
213
Dense
Unbalanced
Balanced
Speedup
6
4
2
0
Layer
1
Layer
2
Layer
3
Layer
4
Layer
5
Layer
6
Layer
7
Layer
8
Layer
9
Layer
10
Layer
11
Layer
12
Layer
13
Mean
(a)
VGG-16 layers
Dense
Unbalanced
Balanced
Speedup
2
1
3
4
5
6
7
0
CONV2_DW
CONV3_DW
CONV2_PW
CONV3_PW
CONV4_DW
CONV4_PW
CONV13_DW
CONV13_PW
CONV14_DW
CONV15_DW
Mean
(b)
MobileNet layers
8
Figure 12.20
Balanced vs unbalanced at Lf = 6 for (a) Sparse VGG16 and (b) sparse
MobileNet.
difference of 1.1× and 1.08× for VGG16 and MobileNet, respectively. From our
experiments, we also observe that the performance difference due to intracore
balancing increases drastically at high sparsity and greater value of Lf . This con-
clusion is inline with the example in Figure 12.18, where the increase in thread
utilization from intracore balancing increases the speedup by 3×. The intercore
balancing is dominant in later layers where there are a large number of channels.
For reduction in simulation times, we only use approximately 25% of the channel
filters for our simulations in the case of regular (and depthwise seperable) convolu-
tions, which prevents us from exploiting the full power of the intercore balancing.
Hence, Figures 12.20a,b do not show a significant improvement in layers with a
large number of channels. Based on our experiments, we observe, on average, a
7% increase in speedup by having 15% more filters in our simulations.
12.4.2.3
Sensitivity to Sparsity and Lf
Our performance simulator has the capability to sweep the weight/activation spar-
sity from low 0.1/0.1 (10%) to high 1.0/1.0 (100%). This is shown in Figures 12.21

--- Strana 232 ---
214
12 Phantom: A High-Performance Computational Core for Sparse CNNs
(a)
Weight/activation sparsity
0.1/0.1
0.2/0.2
0.3/0.3
0.4/0.4
0.5/0.5
dense
Unbalanced (Lf = 9)
Speedup
Average thread utilization
20
18
16
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
100.00
90.00
80.00
70.00
60.00
50.00
40.00
30.00
20.00
10.00
0.00
Unbalanced (Lf  = 18)
Balanced (Lf  = 9)
Unbalanced (Lf  = 27)
Balanced (Lf  = 18)
Balanced (Lf  = 27)
0.6/0.6
0.7/0.7
0.8/0.8
0.9/0.9
1.0/1.0
(b)
Weight/activation sparsity
0.1/0.1
0.2/0.2
0.3/0.3
0.4/0.4
0.5/0.5
0.6/0.6
0.7/0.7
0.8/0.8
0.9/0.9
1.0/1.0
Figure 12.21
Sensitivity to sparsity and Lf for VGG16 (a) Speedup and (b) average thread
utilization.
and 12.22. We also plot the average multiplier thread utilization at different levels
of sparsity for VGG16 and MobileNet. For a dense architecture, we observe a higher
thread utilization at low sparsity and lower thread utilization at a higher sparsity,
as shown in Figures 12.21b and 12.22b. Phantom-2D, however, exhibits signifi-
cantly higher thread utilization compared to a dense architecture, even at high lev-
els of sparsity. For VGG16, Phantom-2D consistently keeps the thread utilization
higher than 90% even at 60% sparsity for both weights and activations, whereas
as expected, the utilization for the dense architecture decreases by 25 −30% and
decreases by almost 50% at higher sparsity levels. This thread utilization difference
directly correlates to greater speedups at mid to high levels of sparsity, as shown in
Figures 12.21a and 12.22a. At higher sparsity levels (0.8/0.8–1.0/1.0), we observe
a massive speedup over dense architecture even when the thread utilization starts
decreasing. This is because the Phantom-2D accelerator starts actively skipping all
the zero computations without wasting compute cycles.
For convenience in comparing different versions of the Phantom-2D accelera-
tors, we rename them as Phantom-2D-CV (conservative, with Lf = 9, balanced),
Phantom-2D-MD (moderate, with Lf = 18, balanced), and Phantom-2D-HP
(high-performance, with Lf = 27, balanced). At low sparsity, all three versions
exhibit similar speedups and thread utilization. This difference increases at higher
sparsity levels with Phantom-2D-MD and Phantom-2D-HP being 1.43× and 1.65×

--- Strana 233 ---
12.4 Experiments and Results
215
(a)
Weight/activation sparsity
0.1/0.1
0.2/0.2
0.3/0.3
0.4/0.4
0.5/0.5
0.6/0.6
0.7/0.7
0.8/0.8
0.9/0.9
1.0/1.0
(b)
Weight/activation sparsity
0.1/0.1
0.2/0.2
0.3/0.3
0.4/0.4
0.5/0.5
0.6/0.6
0.7/0.7
0.8/0.8
0.9/0.9
1.0/1.0
dense
Speedup
0
5
10
15
20
25
Average thread utilization
100.00
90.00
80.00
70.00
60.00
50.00
40.00
30.00
20.00
10.00
0.00
Unbalanced (Lf = 9)
Unbalanced (Lf = 18)
Balanced (Lf = 9)
Unbalanced (Lf = 27)
Balanced (Lf = 18)
Balanced (Lf = 27)
Figure 12.22
Sensitivity to sparsity and Lf for MobileNet (a) Speedup and (b) average
thread utilization.
faster, respectively, than Phantom-2D-CV, at 80% sparsity. The unbalanced con-
figurations display a similar trend among each other. Comparison between the
Phantom-2D-HP, balanced and unbalanced configurations, show a 1.4× speedup
of balanced over unbalanced at 80% sparsity. Analysis of hardware resources
show that the Phantom-2D-HP requires only 1.05× more lookup table (LUT)s
than Phantom-2D-CV. This is because the higher values of Lf only increase the
LUT count of LAM and TDS blocks, whereas the Mapper, CE, and the OB blocks’
LUT count remains the same.
12.4.2.4
Comparison Against Past Approaches
Figure 12.23 shows the speedup comparison of the different versions of the
Phantom-2D accelerators over dense architecture, SCNN, and SparTen, for sparse
VGG16 net. The average sparsity for the weights and activations is 77% and
68%, respectively. Note that both the SCNN, and SparTen, do not support FC
layers, whereas Phantom-2D does. In addition, SCNN also does not support
nonunit stride convolutions present in AlexNet and MobileNet. Therefore, for
fair comparison, we omit the last three FC layers in our results and use sparse
VGG16 which does not contain any nonunit stride convolution. We observe that
the Phantom-2D-CV version, on average, performs 1.05×, 2.56×, and 6.4×, better
than SparTen, SCNN, and dense architecture, respectively. The speedup increases
to approximately 1.57×, 3.8×, and 9.9× for Phantom-2D-MD, and 1.98×, 4.1×, and

--- Strana 234 ---
216
12 Phantom: A High-Performance Computational Core for Sparse CNNs
Dense
SCNN
SparTen
Phantom2D-CV
Phantom2D-MD
Phantom2D-HP
Speedup
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Layer 1
Layer 2
Layer 3
Layer 4
Layer 5
Layer 6
Layer 7
Layer 8
Layer 9 Layer 10 Layer 11 Layer 12 Layer 13
Mean
VGG16 Layers
Figure 12.23
VGG16 speedup comparison with SCNN [163] and SparTen [152].
Source: Adapted from [152, 163].
11×, for Phantom-2D-HP over SparTen, SCNN, and dense architecture, respec-
tively. Upon comparing different versions of Phantom-2D, we observe that, on
average, Phantom-2D-HP has a 67% and a 14% improvement in performance,
compared to the Phantom-2D-CV and Phantom-2D-MD versions, respectively.
Lastly, we would like to point out the impact of FC layers on the Phantom-2D
versions. Our experiments show, on average, a speedup of 13×, 11.4×, and 8.6×
for Phantom-2D-HP, Phantom-2D-MD, and Phantom-2D-CV, respectively, over
dense architecture after inclusion of FC14, FC15, and FC16 layers of the VGG16
net. This improvement corresponds to our efficient dataflow and scheduling for
the FC layers.
Figure 12.24 shows the performance comparison of the Phantom-2D versions
against Eyeriss v2 on sparse MobileNet. The average sparsity for the weights and
activations is 73% and 64%, respectively. Authors of Eyeriss v2 performed their
comparisons against their previous approach (Eyeriss [45]). Eyeriss v2 uses twice
the number of MACs as Eyeriss, which doubles their final speedups. For fair
comparison, we adjust the speedup values of Eyeriss v2 for comparison against a
Speedup
0
5
10
20
30
25
15
CONV2_DW
CONV3_DW
CONV2_PW
CONV3_PW
CONV4_DW
CONV4_PW
CONV14_DW
CONV14_PW
CONV13_PW
CONV13_DW
FC15
Mean
Mobilenet layers
Dense
Eyeriss v2
Phantom2D-CV
Phantom2D-MD
Phantom2D-HP
Figure 12.24
Speedup comparison with Eyeriss v2. Source: Adapted from [52].

--- Strana 235 ---
12.4 Experiments and Results
217
dense accelerator having the same number of MACs and only use the layers used
by Eyeriss v2. We observe that, on average, Phantom-2D-CV performs 1.04× better
than Eyeriss v2, whereas the MD and HP versions, on average perform 1.71× and
2.86×, respectively, better than Eyeriss v2. Doing a layer-by-layer comparison,
we observe that Eyeriss v2 performs better than Phantom in CONV2-DW (DW
indicates depth-wise convolution) because of its efficient hierarchical mesh
network-on-chip (NoC); however, Phantom-2D-HP catches up in deeper layers
and almost always provides an improvement. Pointwise layers are especially faster
in the case of Phantom-2D-HP, with the average speedup of 4.5× over Eyeriss v2,
and 25× over a dense architecture. This is because of the efficient channelwise
breakdown offered by our dataflow for these layers.
Comparing different versions of the Phantom-2D accelerators, Phantom-2D-HP,
on average, offers 108.9% and 27.4% increase in speedup over Phantom-2D-CV and
Phantom-2D-MD, respectively, for sparse MobileNet.
Comparing energy among different accelerators is quite challenging as it
requires working register transfer level (RTL)s. The energy consumption of an
accelerator is dominated by the DRAM accesses, therefore, by estimating the
DRAM accesses, energy difference among the accelerators can be approximated.
Since many of the recent works rely on the CSC format for nonzero data storage,
we compare the accessed memory for the CSC format against the sparse mask
format. Figure 12.25 shows the intermediate activations’ memory access com-
parison for selected VGG 16 and MobileNet layers.2 The activation sparsity for
different layers is also shown. In the initial layers with low activation sparsity, the
CSC format has approximately 4× and 3.7× higher DRAM memory accesses than
the sparse mask for VGG16 and Mobilenet, respectively. In the deeper layers with
moderate-to-high sparsity, the memory requirement for the CSC format is around
1.7× that of the sparse mask.
This shows that the sparse mask representation not only needs less encod-
ing/decoding logic but is also efficient in terms of memory requirements when
compared against the CSC format. This translates directly to higher energy, area,
and compute savings for the accelerators employing the sparse mask format.
12.4.2.5
RTL Synthesis Results
We wrote the RTL Verilog for a single Phantom core with Lf = 27 (high perfor-
mance) and synthesized it for the Xilinx Zynq 7100 SoC’s programmable logic
(PL), running at 150 MHz. The SoC’s ARM-based processing system (PS) was used
to transfer data to/from a desktop computer to DRAM. The PL acquires this data
and stores it in its global buffers (input and weight SRAMs), shown in Figure 12.14.
2 The required memory for the stored nonzero data is not shown since it is the same for both
the sparse mask and the CSC format. The accessed memory is shown for the binary sparse mask
and the location vectors (column, index) of the CSC format.

--- Strana 236 ---
218
12 Phantom: A High-Performance Computational Core for Sparse CNNs
Layer 2
30
DRAM accesses in Megabits (Mb)
DRAM accesses in Megabits (Mb)
20
10
0
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
15
5
25
Layer 4
Layer 6
Sparse mask
CSC
Sparsity
Sparse mask
CSC
Sparsity
Sparsity
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
Sparsity
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
Layer 8
Layer 11
VGG16 layers
(a)
Conv3_dw
Conv3_pw
Conv7_dw
Conv14_dw
Conv7_pw
Mobilenet layers
(b)
Figure 12.25
Sparse mask vs. CSC DRAM access for (a) VGG16 and (b) MobileNet.
The generated outputs and the sparse masks are stored in the output SRAMs and
transferred to DRAM for the next layer. Table 12.3 shows the total resource utiliza-
tion among various sub-blocks of the Phantom core. The main takeaway is that
the novel components of the Phantom core (LAM, TDS, Mapper, and intracore
balancer) only account for approximately 48% and 35% of the utilized LUT and
the FF cost, respectively. The local SRAM utilization is dominated by the map-
per and the output buffering block (approximately 78%). The design has a power
consumption of 2.48 W with the PS dominating the consumption (55%). Eyeriss
v2, implemented on a 65 nm application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC), uti-
lizes 2695k gates which represents a 108% increase in area cost when compared
to the original semisparse Eyeriss [45]. This drastic increase in area is the result of
the complex encoding/decoding logic required by the CSC format in their design.
SCNN has a 35% increase in area compared to their dense design, whereas SparTen
does not report the resource utilization of their PEs.
12.5
Chapter Summary
Designing a CNN accelerator to leverage the two-sided sparsity is quite challeng-
ing owing to the varying layer shapes and sizes, associated with a sparse model.

--- Strana 237 ---
12.5 Chapter Summary
219
Table 12.3
Resource utilization for a single Phantom core with Lf = 27.
Property
Available
Used
Utilization (%)
LUTs
277k
3.4k
1.23
FFs
554k
6k
1.1
On-chip SRAM
26.5Mb
2.1kB
0.01
In this chapter, we introduced Phantom: a novel multithreaded, flexible, neural
computational core that exploits the two-sided sparsity to provide high gains in
performance at a relatively low hardware complexity. Using a system of Phan-
tom cores, we then designed the Phantom-2D accelerator, and presented a novel
dataflow that efficiently used the capabilities of the Phantom cores. As opposed
to many previous approaches, the Phantom-2D accelerator supports all layers of a
CNN, including unit and non-unit stride convolutions, and FC layers. In addition,
we discussed a two-level load balancing strategy that efficiently balanced the load
across the architecture level (inter-core), and at the thread level (intracore) to min-
imize idling of the compute threads, thereby, further increasing the throughput.
The chapter presented performance comparison of Phantom-2D against many pre-
vious state-of-the-art two-sided sparse CNN accelerators. The simulation results
show that, on average, Phantom-2D accelerator performed 12×, 4.1×, 1.98×, and
2.36×, better than an equivalent dense CNN architecture, SCNN, SparTen, and
Eyeriss v2, respectively, while retaining the energy efficiency of SparTen.

--- Strana 238 ---

--- Strana 239 ---
221
Part V
HW/SW Co-Design and Co-Scheduling for CNN
Acceleration

--- Strana 240 ---

--- Strana 241 ---
223
13
State-of-the-Art in HW/SW Co-Design and Co-Scheduling
for CNN Acceleration
This chapter provides an overview of hardware/software (HW/SW) co-design and
co-scheduling for convolutional neural network (CNN) acceleration. This chapter
can be broadly divided into two parts: HW/SW co-design and co-scheduling.
For the first part, this chapter defines HW/SW co-design and provides background
of HW/SW co-design. The chapter then presents a case study of cognitive Internet
of things (IoT) as an example of HW/SW co-design. This chapter then describes
recent advancements in the HW/SW co-design for resource-constrained systems.
For the second part, this chapter provides background of HW/SW co-scheduling
and then highlights recent advancements in HW/SW co-scheduling.
13.1
HW/SW Co-Design
The traditional computer system architecture is based on central processing
unit (CPU) based design. The CPU has been widely deployed and is used to
execute a wide spectrum of the applications. As transistor size approaches
the size of a single atom, Moore’s Law is not strictly applicable to the modern
computer systems, and thus performance improvements attained by CPUs that
have benefited from Moore’s Law for decades have seen a slower increase over
the years. Furthermore, memory wall and power wall make the continuous
performance improvements from general-purpose computer systems even harder.
Consequently, computing and architecture landscape has transitioned toward
multicore and domain-specific architectures where multiple accelerators are
available on-chip (i.e., system on-chip) or off-chip. These accelerators are utilized
when executing specific workloads. The software of these domain-specific
architectures is also often designed and optimized by considering the underlying
hardware. This software design and optimization is very important for attaining
Accelerators for Convolutional Neural Networks, First Edition.
Arslan Munir, Joonho Kong, and Mahmood Azhar Qureshi.
© 2024 The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Published 2024 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

--- Strana 242 ---
224
13 State-of-the-Art in HW/SW Co-Design and Co-Scheduling for CNN Acceleration
high performance and energy efficiency in particular in embedded system
domain where hardware resources are scarce. Software design and optimization
considering the underlying hardware architecture can significantly improve
performance and energy efficiency in domain-specific HW/SW systems because
the architecture of the underlying hardware is different and can be best exploited
by optimizing the software for that specific hardware. That is why, hardware and
software are often co-designed for an application-specific workload or system,
and this approach is referred to as hardware/software co-design.
HW/SW co-design concept emerged in 1990s. The notion of HW/SW co-design
is essentially the concurrent design of hardware and software components of
complex electronic systems [184]. HW/SW co-design aims to exploit the synergy
between hardware and software in order to optimize and meet design constraints
such as cost, performance, power, energy, and reliability of the final product.
In HW/SW co-design concept, when the system is being designed, tasks/subtasks,
functionalities/subfunctionalities, and different aspects or facets of the system
are partitioned into hardware and software components depending on the design
requirements. Software can provide flexibility and programmability whereas
hardware can optimize aspects of a system that do not require change over the
lifetime of a product. Modern HW/SW codesign techniques target SoC design
that integrates general-purpose microprocessors/CPUs, digital signal processors
(DSPs), programmable logic (FPGA), application-specific integrated system
(ASIC) cores, memory blocks, peripherals, and interconnection buses on one
chip. HW/SW co-design techniques aim to determine an optimal partitioning and
assignment of tasks between software running on microprocessors or DSPs and
hardware implemented on ASIC or FPGA for a given application [185].
For CNN acceleration, HW/SW co-design is imperative. When designing a
computing system for CNNs, certain tasks in the CNNs can be offloaded to the
hardware. For instance, since CPU is not suitable for data parallel workloads,
the general matrix multiplication (GEMM) task can be offloaded to a dedicated
hardware accelerator while other tasks can performed in software on CPU.
In this way, task offloading afforded by HW/SW co-design can lead to a huge
performance and energy efficiency benefit for CNN execution as compared to a
system with only software-based execution on the CPU. On the software-side,
the task scheduling by exploiting the task-level parallelism is also beneficial. In
a HW/SW co-designed CNN acceleration system, when the dedicated hardware
accelerator is performing some tasks/sub-tasks of CNN execution, other CNN
tasks/sub-tasks can be executed in parallel in software running on the CPU.
Figure 13.1 summarizes the comparison between the conventional CPU-based
design and execution versus HW/SW co-design and execution.

--- Strana 243 ---
13.1 HW/SW Co-Design
225
CPU
CNN task
CPU
Hardware 
accelerator
CNN subtask
+
Task scheduling
CNN subtask
+
(b)
(a)
Figure 13.1
Comparison between (a) conventional software-based design and
execution, and (b) HW/SW co-design and execution.
13.1.1
Case Study: Cognitive IoT
This section discusses cognitive IoT as a case study example of HW/SW co-design
for CNN acceleration. Many of the IoT applications not only require the
IoT devices to perform compute-intensive tasks but also to learn, think, and
understand both physical and social worlds by themselves thus motivating the
development of a new paradigm, named cognitive IoT [186]. Cognitive IoT outfits
the current IoT with a “brain” for high-level intelligence. Cognitive IoT will be
able to accomplish various application tasks including resource control (e.g.,
sensing resolution, actuation), inference, and decision-making with minimum
human intervention/supervision thus saving human’s time and effort and will
also provide efficient resource usage. Hence, there is a need to develop a flexible,
high-performance, energy-efficient, and cognitive IoT architecture to assist with
various emerging IoT applications (e.g., agriculture, smart homes, smart cities,
military).
Figure 13.2 depicts an example of cognitive IoT architecture. This architec-
ture consists of a host processor which comprises of an application processor,
co-processors, and accelerators. The host processor is connected to various
low-power interface processors that collect data from sensors and control
actuation elements.
The core component of a cognitive IoT architecture is cognitive engine, which
provides cognition capabilities to the IoT device. The cognitive engine implements
various deep learning accelerators, such as CNNs, recurrent neural networks
(RNNs), and multilayer perceptrons (MLPs). The cognitive engine helps with var-
ious cognitive tasks in IoT devices, such as in situ analysis of the sensed data, local
resource management, inference, decision-making, and response calculation for
the IoT devices based on the analysis of the sensed data. Increasing cyber-physical

--- Strana 244 ---
226
13 State-of-the-Art in HW/SW Co-Design and Co-Scheduling for CNN Acceleration
INTERFACE PROCESSOR
INTERCONNECT
APPLICATION PROCESSOR
CO-PROCESSORS AND ACCELERATORS
STORAGE
HOST PROCESSOR
CO-PROCESSOR
EXTENSIONS
SECURITY
GRAPHICS
SIGNAL PROCESSING
COGNITIVE
ENGINE
CNN ACCELERATOR
RNN ACCELERATOR
MLP ACCELERATOR
DATA
SENSING
ACTUATION
CONTROL
INTERFACE PROCESSOR
DATA
SENSING
ACTUATION
CONTROL
Figure 13.2
Cognitive IoT architecture.
and vision applications of IoT make CNNs an integral part of cognitive engine for
imparting real-time object detections and/or classifications. To enable efficient
on-device CNN inferences, hardware-based CNN inference engines are often
used instead of general-purpose CPUs or graphics processing units (GPUs). With
the hardware components, the software which actually controls the hardware
also hugely contributes to the performance, energy efficiency, and cost of the
systems. This section focuses on HW/SW co-design of CNN inference engine for
cognitive IoT.
For cognitive IoT computing platforms, implementing the cognitive engine
with ASICs would be desirable for better optimization; however, ASICs being
hardwired provide no flexibility to adopt a new cognitive engine. Alterna-
tively, field-programmable gate array system-on-chip (FPGA-SoC) that equips
programmable logic, CPU, and other hard intellectual properties (IPs) provides
an attractive platform because of its reconfigurability, flexibility, cost efficiency,

--- Strana 245 ---
13.1 HW/SW Co-Design
227
and faster time-to-market. Cost efficiency is an important metric to consider for
real-world adoption of on-device CNN inference architectures in IoT devices.
We define cost efficiency metric as: an architecture (or implementation) is
cost-efficient if it requires fewer resources under performance and energy
efficiency constraints as compared to other architectures (implementations).
Though there have been many studies and proposals on fast and efficient CNN
inference for FPGA platforms (e.g., [146–148, 166], and [187]), cost efficiency of
the implementations has been largely ignored, which may make those designs
infeasible for low-power and resource-constrained cognitive IoT.
The designed hardware for cognitive IoT can also be supported by software. For
example, software can perform scheduling of the underlying hardware resources
for improving the hardware resource utilization. In addition, the operating system
support can also be available to meet the real-time constraints when executing the
IoT applications that have a hard deadline.
13.1.2
Recent Advancements in HW/SW Co-Design
Many recent CNN inference engines leverage HW/SW co-design. Sugimoto et al.
[187] have proposed a method to accelerate execution of the convolution layer
with general matrix multiplication (GEMM) hardware, whereas implementing
image-to-column (im2col) operations in software. In [147], Qiu et al. have
proposed an acceleration technique via dynamic data quantization and convolver
design, leading to an improved bandwidth and resource utilization in an embed-
ded FPGA platform. Meloni et al. [146] have proposed a new methodology to
utilize both hardware accelerator and embedded CPU in Zynq-based FPGA-SoC
platform. Their methodology utilizes a 16-bit fixed-point convolution engine
implemented in the programmable arrays and ARM CPU’s NEON units for
processing the convolution layers. The proposed software framework orchestrates
the overall convolution layer processing. Zhong et al. [166] have proposed a
unified framework for accelerating CNNs on heterogeneous embedded platforms.
The proposed framework in [166] utilizes GEMM hardware with multithreading
to efficiently hide latencies.
In [188], authors have proposed a HW/SW codesign approach for cost-efficient
on-device CNN inference in resource-constrained cognitive IoT devices. The
authors have utilized the CNN hardware accelerator introduced in Chapter 7 as
the main hardware part. For the software part, the authors have proposed and
implemented two important software-level support mechanisms: (i) efficient
channel partition and input/weight allocation, and (ii) the pipelined execution of
the front-end (e.g., input data transfer, im2col, and MAC) and the back-end part
(e.g., bias addition and activation) of the execution. The efficient input channel
partition, input/weight allocation, and the pipelined execution are essential

--- Strana 246 ---
228
13 State-of-the-Art in HW/SW Co-Design and Co-Scheduling for CNN Acceleration
parts to maximize the resource utilization in the system. Experimental results
demonstrate the superiority of our FPGA-based implementation for Tiny-Darknet
[145] CNN model with full-stack software including operating system (PetaLinux)
and Darknet framework [143] in terms of response time and energy consumption
as compared to the implementations using the CPU with NEON (SIMD, Single
Instruction Multiple Data) architecture extension for the Arm Cortex processors)
supports as well as the implementations that only offload the GEMM to the
hardware accelerator.
13.2
HW/SW Co-Scheduling
Although many hardware accelerators and algorithmic advancements have
been proposed for CNNs, efficient CNN inference in resource-constrained edge
systems is still an arduous undertaking. Modern SoCs, which are generally used
in many resource-constrained edge systems, employ many different hardware
IPs to support a wide range of tasks. Recently, CNN accelerators are also being
incorporated as hardware IP in modern edge devices and servers. For CNN
inference in such environments, the main CPU triggers the CNN accelerator
with direct memory access (DMA)-based data transfer. The CNN accelerators in
most cases can execute CNN inferences faster than the CPU or other hardware
IPs. However, in most of the contemporary CNN acceleration systems, the CPU
or hardware IPs other than the CNN accelerator remain idle during the CNN
inference. These idle hardware resources could otherwise be utilized for acceler-
ating the CNN inferences alongside the CNN accelerator. For example, a typical
CPU in embedded platforms can perform matrix–vector operations. With SIMD
supports, these matrix–vector operations can be made much faster. Consequently,
idle hardware resources in CPU can be utilized to execute a certain portion
of CNN inference tasks to make the CNN inference faster than using only the
CNN accelerator. The process of scheduling tasks on both hardware and software
(CPU) is referred to as HW/SW co-scheduling. In regards to CNN acceleration,
the concept of scheduling and executing CNN inference tasks/subtasks on
both the CNN hardware accelerator as well as the CPU to share the workload
of the CNN acceleration for improving performance is referred to as HW/SW
co-scheduling for CNN acceleration.
For efficient utilization of hardware resources in an intelligent SoC-based plat-
form, an important design decision is how to distribute the CNN inference tasks in
a load-balanced manner. The “ideal load balancing” for CNN inference means the
distribution of CNN tasks in a manner that maximizes the utilization of multiple

--- Strana 247 ---
13.2 HW/SW Co-Scheduling
229
hardware resources. Such distribution of CNN tasks also increases the possibility
of idle time minimization of SoC hardware resources when executing the paral-
lel tasks in multiple different hardware resources. An important metric to con-
sider for load balancing of CNN inferences is relative performance ratio. Relative
performance ratio (RPR) is the ratio of the performance between various hard-
ware resources. For two resources (or components or subsystems) A and B, the
RPR is defined as the performance of A relative to B, that is, RPR = PerfA
PerfB , where
PerfA and PerfB denote the performances of A and B, respectively. Load imbalance
can result in idle time for various hardware resources, which lead to underuti-
lization of the hardware resources. Thus, in order to minimize load imbalance
in SoC platforms (i.e., to minimize idle time in hardware resources), a careful
consideration of task distribution is required at a fine granularity by considering
the relative performance ratio.
13.2.1
Recent Advancements in HW/SW Co-Scheduling
Recent efforts have focused on co-scheduling of CNN workloads with various
hardware IPs in SoC platforms. In [166], a framework to utilize heterogeneous
hardware resources in SoCs when executing CNN inferences is proposed.
The framework utilizes CPU (with SIMD engine) and accelerator to expedite
multiple CONV layer executions for different image frames. In [189], a technique
to utilize CPU, GPU, and hardware accelerator for CNN acceleration by partition-
ing a batch of images is proposed. By exploiting the roofline model, the technique
partitions a batch of images and then distributes these partitioned images to
CPU, GPU, and FPGA accelerator for efficient CNN acceleration. In [190], a task
assignment technique is proposed for multi-CNN acceleration, which utilizes
multiple deep learning processing units (DPUs) for CNN inference, while CPU is
responsible for task initialization. Similarly, [146] proposes a technique to utilize
both an FPGA-based accelerator and a CPU for CNN inferences. The technique
[146] offloads the convolution operation to the FPGA accelerator, while the other
parts of CNN (such as fully connected layer or shortcut connection, etc.) are
executed in the CPU. Though the technique proposed in [146] can improve the
throughput of CNN inference by exploiting both the CPU and the FPGA-based
accelerator, it is very hard to fully utilize both the hardware accelerator and the
CPU because granularity for task distribution is still large (e.g., layer granularity).
Further, due to coarse granularity, there is a high probability for having idle period
in hardware resources, thus incurring throughput loss. In [191], a single layer
acceleration technique is proposed by utilizing both CPU and GPU. The tech-
nique in [191] distributes the output channels with a fixed ratio (e.g., 0.25, 0.5,

--- Strana 248 ---
230
13 State-of-the-Art in HW/SW Co-Design and Co-Scheduling for CNN Acceleration
and 0.75). In [109], a technique to accelerate memory streaming workloads
(memory-to-memory data transfer with or without simple arithmetic operations
such as memory COPY, ADD, SCALE, and TRIAD [192]) via cooperation between
a CPU and an FPGA-based accelerator is proposed. Though the technique in [109]
can accelerate 1 × 1 convolution operations, it has limitations on accelerating
N × N convolution operations where N > 1.
The previously proposed approaches targeting heterogeneous hardware uti-
lization for CNN inferences use multiple available resources (CPU and FPGAs
in [166], CPU, GPU, and FPGAs in [189], and CPU and multiple DPUs in [190]);
however, the previously proposed approaches can only be employed when simul-
taneously executing multiple CNN inferences, thus limiting their applicability. In
addition, the coarse-grained task partitioning employed in previously proposed
approaches may not work well in resource-constrained edge devices because it is
very rare to execute a large batch of images together in edge devices.
In Chapter 15, we introduce a recently proposed HW/SW co-scheduling
technique [125] in detail. The work presented in [125] can be applied to a
single CONV layer acceleration, which has wider applicability as compared
to the HW/SW co-scheduling techniques proposed in [189], [166], and [190].
In addition, the HW/SW co-scheduling technique presented in [125] employs a
finer-grained approach that distributes output channels in a single CONV layer
to the accelerator and the CPU, which is more suitable for resource-constrained
edge devices. Furthermore, the technique proposed in [125] is based on task
distribution with a finer granularity (i.e., CNN output channels in a CONV layer),
and thus has a higher probability of keeping the accelerator and the CPU busy.
Lastly, the accurate latency estimation in [125] guides the load-balanced task
distribution to the accelerator and CPU, thereby minimizing idle time in the
hardware resources when executing the CONV layer operations.
13.3
Chapter Summary
This chapter defined HW/SW co-design and HW/SW co-scheduling. Further-
more, this chapter provided a background of HW/SW co-design followed by a
case study of cognitive IoT as an example of HW/SW co-design. The chapter
then discussed some recent advancements in HW/SW co-design. The chapter
then provided a background of HW/SW co-scheduling followed by a reviewof
recent advances in HW/SW co-scheduling. In Chapter 14, this book introduces
a HW/SW co-design technique for CNN acceleration in resource-constrained
edge devices. Chapter 15 discusses a HW/SW co-scheduling technique for CNN
acceleration in resource-constrained edge devices.

--- Strana 249 ---
231
14
Hardware/Software Co-Design for CNN Acceleration
In Chapter 7, this book has already explained the iMAC hardware accelerator.
This chapter focuses on the software partition/portion of the iMAC. This chapter
introduces two important software-level support mechanisms: (i) efficient
channel partition and input/weight allocation, and (ii) the pipelined execu-
tion of the front-end (e.g., input data transfer, image-to-column (im2col), and
multiply-accumulate (MAC)) and the back-end part (e.g., bias addition and
activation) of the execution. The efficient input channel partition, input/weight
allocation, and the pipelined execution are essential parts to maximize the
resource utilization in the system.
14.1
Background of iMAC Accelerator
This chapter mainly explains the software supports for the iMAC accelerator. In
order to help the readers understand better this chapter, we briefly discuss how
the tasks are offloaded in the iMAC accelerator.
HW/SW partitioning of the iMAC accelerator architecture is shown in
Figure 14.1. As we explained in Chapter 7, the iMAC accelerator incorporates the
im2col and general matrix multiplication (GEMM) operations in the hardware
accelerator to reduce the data transfer between the main memory and the accel-
erator on-chip memory. As shown in four processing element (PE) architecture
of the iMAC accelerator in Figure 14.2, the iMAC accelerator has multiple MAC
arrays to perform the parallel MAC operations for GEMM. In Section 14.2, we
explain the software partition/portion of the iMAC accelerator with a detailed
channel partition algorithm for convolutional neural network (CNN)s.
Accelerators for Convolutional Neural Networks, First Edition.
Arslan Munir, Joonho Kong, and Mahmood Azhar Qureshi.
© 2024 The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Published 2024 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

--- Strana 250 ---
232
14 Hardware/Software Co-Design for CNN Acceleration
Im2col
GEMM (MAC)
Bias addition
Activation
Input
feature
map
Output
feature
map
Pipelined
execution
: Hardware accelerator execution
: CPU (software-based) execution
Figure 14.1
HW/SW partitioning for iMAC accelerator.
Input
BRAM 
Output
BRAM 
Im2col
buffer
Im2col
buffer
Mul
buffer
Weight
BRAM 
Mul
buffer
Mul
buffer
Im2col
FU
Im2col
FU
Im2col
FU
Im2col
FU
Mul
buffer
Out
buffer
Out
buffer
Out
buffer
Out
buffer
×
+
×
×
×
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
Im2col
buffer
Im2col
buffer
Figure 14.2
4PE iMAC accelerator architecture. FU stands for the functional unit.
14.2
Software Partition for iMAC Accelerator
Sections 14.2.1 and 14.2.2 discuss the software partitioning of the HW/SW
co-designed iMAC accelerator, which includes channel partition and software-
based pipelined execution.
14.2.1
Channel Partition and Input/Weight Allocation to Hardware
Accelerator
Provisioning the hardware resources for in situ execution of the entire convo-
lution layer could not be a desirable solution for resource-constrained Internet
of things (IoT) or edge systems. Since the presented design is geared toward
resource-constrained systems, we only have limited on-chip memories and PEs

--- Strana 251 ---
14.2 Software Partition for iMAC Accelerator
233
which are not enough to implement a whole convolution layer. Since our iMAC
hardware can only execute a part of the convolution layer (i.e., only a part of
the entire input channels in a convolution layer) at once, efficient partition and
allocation of input channels to the iMAC hardware accelerator are very crucial.
In the presented design, the hardware accelerator (iMAC) operates by a unit(s)
of an input channel. Thus, we try to put the input feature map and weight data
for as many input channels as possible to the input and weight block random
access memory (BRAM)s, respectively, to minimize the number of data transfer.
Figure 14.3 shows a pseudocode of the presented channel partition method
controlled by software. One outer-loop iteration generates results for one output
channel (lines 2–19). Thus, if we would like to generate more than one output
channel, we need to execute the outer loop by NumOutputChannel times (i.e.,
equal to the number of the total output channels in a certain convolution layer).
For each inner-loop iteration (lines 3–14), we generate partial results for one
Pseudocode for Software-Level Supports
1 out = 0;
2 for (i=1; i<=NumOutputChannel; i ++)
3
for (j =1; j <=NumPartition; j ++)
4
DMA_Transfer_to_iMAC (jth_Weight);
5
while (!DMA_done);
6
DMA_done = 0;
7
DMA_Transfer_to_iMAC (jth_InputFeatureMAP);
8
if (out)
9
Bias_Addition_and_Activation ((i−1)th_OutputChannel);
10
out = 0;
11
end if
12
while ((!Check_iMAC_done()) || (!DMA_done));
13
DMA_done = 0;
14
end for
15
DMA_Transfer_to_Memory (ith_OutputChannel);
16
out = 1;
17
while (!DMA_done);
18
DMA_done = 0;
19 end for
20 Bias_Addition_and_Activation ((i−1)th_OutputChannel);
Figure 14.3
Pseudocode of the software-level supports for the iMAC accelerator. The
“DMA_done” is a ﬂag variable that autonomously set as “1” as soon as the direct memory
access (DMA) transfer is ﬁnished. The “Check_iMAC_done()” is a function that returns
whether or not the iMAC accelerator is ﬁnished (it returns “1” if ﬁnished, “0” if not).

--- Strana 252 ---
234
14 Hardware/Software Co-Design for CNN Acceleration
output channel. The inner-loop iterations are executed by NumPartition times
where NumPartition is equal to ⌈(the total number of input channels/the number
of maximum input channels that the iMAC hardware can accommodate)⌉.
How many input channels can be accommodated is bound to input and weight
BRAM size. For a hypothetical example, we have 50,176 × 4B input BRAMs
with 288 × 4B weight BRAMs. We also have 112 × 112 × 12 input feature maps
(an element size=4B: one floating-point variable) with 32 3 × 3 × 12 weights
(filters). The input and weight BRAM can accommodate input feature maps
for up to 4 input channels (50,176*4B = 4*112*112*4B) and 12 layers of filters
(288 ∗4B ≥12 × 3 × 3 × 4B), respectively. In this example, the number of input
channels we can accommodate is bound to the input BRAM size (12>4). Thus,
NumOutputChannel and NumPartition values will be set as “32” (same as the
number of the filters) and “3” (=12 input channels / 4 channels at maximum with
available BRAMs), respectively.
14.2.2
Exploiting Parallelism Within Convolution Layer Operations
By exploiting the parallelism that exists in different operations in the convolution
layer, the presented design implements a pipelined execution of the operations. As
shown in Figure 14.3, in lines 7–11, as soon as the direct memory access (DMA)
transfer is triggered for input feature maps (during the DMA transfer, the CPU
can perform another task), the bias addition and activation for the previous out-
put channel are performed (lines 8–11). Since the iMAC hardware is implemented
to autonomously perform the im2col and MAC operations as soon as finishing
the DMA transfer for input feature maps, the CPU waits for finishing the DMA
transfer for input feature map and im2col and MAC operations in the while loop
(line 12). In lines 15–18, DMA transfer for the results of output channel i is per-
formed and the CPU waits for finishing the DMA transfer. After the termination
of the outer-loop iterations, the bias addition and activation operations for the last
output channel (i −1 because we already incremented i by 1 before we terminate
the outer loop) are carried out in the CPU in line 20.
For comparison, Figure 14.4 shows the timing diagrams without pipelined exe-
cution (a) and with pipelined execution (b) for three output channels (OCs). With-
out pipelining (Figure 14.4 a), the bias addition and activation are performed when
the iMAC hardware computation and DMA transfers for outputs are entirely fin-
ished. Thus, iMAC accelerator and CPU are not used in parallel and either of
hardware resources is idle, causing a throughput loss. In the presented design,
as shown in Figure 14.4b, we exploit the data independence between the output
channels. It means we can overlap the executions of the bias addition and acti-
vation for the previous output channel N −1 with the iMAC execution for the
current output channel N. Please note that the bias addition and activation for

--- Strana 253 ---
14.3 Experimental Evaluations
235
iMAC for OC1
iMAC for OC2
iMAC for OC3
I
W
iMAC
I
iMAC
W I
iMAC
W
O
O
BA
O
(a)
W I
I
iMAC
W I
iMAC
W
O
iMAC
O
BA
O
BA
BA
W : Weight Transfer
iMAC
: iMAC Accelerator Compute
(b)
I
: Input Transfer
O : Output Transfer
BA
: Bias Addition + Activation
Figure 14.4
Comparison between (a) nonpipelined and (b) pipelined execution.
the last output channel of a convolution layer cannot be overlapped as shown in
Figure 14.4b. This part also corresponds to the line 20 in the pseudocode shown in
Figure 14.3.
In this design, we do not apply double buffering. The rationale behind this
design decision is cost (resource) efficiency. To support double buffering with
the same PE utilization, we need twice more BRAMs, which are not desirable
for resource-constrained system. In the presented implementation, the compu-
tation time dominates the data transfer time, which also means a performance
gain from double buffering would be marginal. Instead of applying the double
buffering, we exploit parallelism in the convolution layer operations by over-
lapping the im2col+GEMM and bias addition/activation, leading to cost- and
resource-efficient design.
14.3
Experimental Evaluations
We show the experimental results with four different designs: CPU, GEMM,
iMAC_NPL, and iMAC_PL. CPU only uses CPU without an additional hardware
accelerator. GEMM only offload GEMM to the dedicated field-programmable
gate array (FPGA)-based logic. iMAC_NPL offloads im2col and MAC to the
dedicated FPGA hardware (iMAC accelerator), while the pipelining described in
Section 14.2.2 is not applied. iMAC_PL offloads im2col and MAC to the iMAC

--- Strana 254 ---
236
14 Hardware/Software Co-Design for CNN Acceleration
accelerator with the pipelining supports in the software. We also show the results
when the single instruction multiple data (SIMD) (ARM NEON) support, which
can be orthogonally applied to four different designs, is provided and not provided
in the CPU. In the cases of iMAC_PL and iMAC_NPL, the identical 8PE-based
iMAC hardware accelerator is used. For fair comparison, we use the same amount
of BRAM blocks in GEMM (with 95 MHz FPGA clock) as that in iMAC_PL.
Figure 14.5 shows the response time and energy results for eight cases
(4 different designs * 2 (w/ NEON and w/o NEON)). In the case of response
time, our iMAC_PL significantly reduces response time of the CNN inference
regardless of the NEON support is available or not. When the NEON support is
not available, the speedup of the iMAC_PL is 1.97 × compared to CPU. It means
the cognitive engine (i.e., iMAC accelerator) can achieve a huge speedup in
resource-constrained embedded/IoT environments with a small hardware over-
head. In the case of GEMM, response time is rather increased compared to CPU.
This is because of the huge increase in the amount of data transfer caused by data
replication (i.e., unrolling the input) during im2col. Compared to iMAC_NPL,
iMAC_PL shows 1.12× speedup which is attributed to the overlap between the
computation times for data transfer/accelerator and bias addition/activation. The
relative performance impact of pipelining could be further improved as we put
more PEs and/or increase the clock frequency of the iMAC so that we can reduce
the execution time of the im2col and MAC operations. When the NEON support
is available, performance of CPU is increased by 52.9% compared to CPU without
NEON. However, iMAC_PL with NEON still shows better performance by 29.2%
compared to CPU with NEON. It implies the presented acceleration technique
can achieve better response time regardless of NEON supports in the CPU. In the
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
1.4
w/o NEON
Energy
Response time
CPU
GEMM
iMAC_NPL
iMAC_PL
Normalized metrics
w/ NEON
w/o NEON
w/ NEON
Figure 14.5
Response time and energy comparison. The results are normalized to the
results of CPU w/o NEON.

--- Strana 255 ---
14.4 Chapter Summary
237
case of platform-level energy, the iMAC_PL shows the highest energy reductions
among GEMM, iMAC_NPL, and iMAC_PL compared to CPU. The iMAC_PL
shows energy reductions by 44.3% and 19.4% compared to the CPU without and
with NEON supports, respectively.
14.4
Chapter Summary
This chapter discussed a HW/SW co-designed CNN accelerator for resource-
constrained systems. Hardware partitioning of the discussed iMAC accelerator
had been elaborated in Chapter 7, so this chapter focused on the software parti-
tion of the design. This chapter discussed software-level supports to efficiently
partition and allocate the input channels to the iMAC hardware accelerator and
exploit the parallelism inside the convolution layer operations. Experimental
results revealed that the iMAC implementation attained 1.3× ∼2.0× speedup
and energy reduction of 19.4% ∼44.3% as compared to using only the CPU.
Experimental results verified that the presented HW/SW co-design achieves a
good trade-off between response time, energy, and cost for CNN inference in
intelligent systems under tight resource budgets.

--- Strana 256 ---

--- Strana 257 ---
239
15
CPU-Accelerator Co-Scheduling for CNN Acceleration
This chapter introduces a technique to utilize idle hardware resources for
convolution (CONV) layer acceleration, which generally constitutes the largest
portion of convolutional neural network (CNN) inference latency. The introduced
technique exploits the central processing unit (CPU) for sharing load of CNN
inference tasks along with the CNN hardware accelerator. The main reasons of
utilizing CPUs for sharing CNN inference load with the hardware accelerator in
the introduced technique are (i) CPUs are hardware IPs employed in most of the
resource-constrained edge systems, and (ii) CPUs can execute matrix-vector (or
matrix-matrix) operations with reasonable efficiency [166], which makes CPUs
attractive components for sharing CNN tasks with the CNN accelerator. In order
to distribute CNN inference tasks between the hardware accelerator and the
CPU, the parallelism in generating multiple CNN output channels (which can be
generated independently) in a single CONV layer is exploited. To help minimize
the idle time in both the accelerator and the CPU, this chapter also introduces a
linear regression-based latency model for CONV layer execution. By referring to
the estimated latency from the presented model, the introduced co-scheduling
technique distributes the CNN output channels between the accelerator and the
CPU to maximize the utilization of the both (i.e., to minimize the idle time in
both the accelerator and the CPU).
There have been previous works that achieve more than 10× reduction of the
computation [94] or more than 40× weight size reduction [46, 62] with a negligi-
ble accuracy loss; however, those works focus on improving the CNN models [62]
or changing data format (quantization) and value (pruning) of the weights [46, 94].
On the contrary, the introduced acceleration technique utilizes CPU and the CNN
accelerator co-scheduling and can be employed orthogonally with the existing
CNN acceleration techniques that utilize quantization and pruning. Furthermore,
the introduced technique is applicable to any CNN model because this technique
focuses on utilizing both the CPU and the CNN accelerator when executing a
Accelerators for Convolutional Neural Networks, First Edition.
Arslan Munir, Joonho Kong, and Mahmood Azhar Qureshi.
© 2024 The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Published 2024 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

--- Strana 258 ---
240
15 CPU-Accelerator Co-Scheduling for CNN Acceleration
CNN inference with a given CNN model (i.e., this technique is not limited to
any particular CNN model). Thus, the introduced technique can be much more
broadly applied for CNN inference acceleration at the edge as compared to other
CNN acceleration techniques.
The main contributions related to HW/SW co-scheduling covered in this
chapter are
●A
CNN
output
channel
distribution
technique
with
CPU-accelerator
co-scheduling, which utilizes both the CNN accelerator and the CPU
●A simple, yet accurate convolution layer latency model for the CNN accelerator
and the CPU
●Implementation of the introduced co-scheduling technique in a CNN frame-
work [143] while verifying it in various field programmable gate array
system-on-chip (FPGA-SoC) based platforms as a proof-of-concept
●The experimental results reveal that the introduced co-scheduling technique
improves the performance of convolution layer operations by 1.18xto 2.00x
while at the same time reducing the energy consumption by 14.9%–49.7% as
compared to the accelerator-only execution.
15.1
Background and Preliminaries
In this section, we cover the generic topics for CNNs and the baseline system archi-
tecture used in this chapter. For baseline system architecture, we also explain how
the underlying systems and accelerators are organized and how they exploits par-
allelism in the CNN.
15.1.1
Convolutional Neural Networks
CNNs are generally composed of multiple different types of layers. Though some
CNN architectures contain specialized layers (e.g., Inception layer in [35]), most
of the modern CNN architectures are composed of CONV layers, pooling layers,
and fully connected layers. Among those layers, it is known that the CONV layer
takes the largest portion of the execution time in a CNN inference. Thus, in this
chapter, we mainly focus on accelerating the CONV layers.
A deep look into the CONV layer (Figure 15.1) divulges that input feature
maps (IFMs) and weights (filters) mainly constitute an input for the CONV layer.
Bias values (gamma and beta for batch normalization) are sometimes included
in the inputs for CONV layers though they are omitted in Figure 15.1. With the
IFMs (IH × IW × IC) and weights (N × N × IC × OC), the convolution operations
are performed. After the convolution, depending on the CNN models, the batch

--- Strana 259 ---
15.1 Background and Preliminaries
241
IFMs
IW
IH
OFMs
OW
OH
OC
IC
IC
…
Convolution
batch normalization
activation
OC
3D filters
(N×N×IC)
N
N
Figure 15.1
Typical convolutional layer operations. IH, IW, IC, OH, OW, and OC stand for
input height, input width, input channel, output height, output width, and output
channel, respectively.
normalization can be performed to the output from the convolution operations.
Lastly, the activation is performed, typically by rectified linear units (ReLUs),
which generate the output feature maps (OFMs) of dimension OH× OW × OC.
15.1.2
Baseline System Architecture
In this work, we assume a resource-constrained edge system with a CNN acceler-
ator (such as Coral platform [115] which has a CPU with edge tensor processing
unit). As shown in Figure 15.2, the baseline SoC is similar to a typical embedded
system which includes CPU and memory controller. In the baseline system,
we also use the CNN accelerator to expedite the CNN inference in the system.
Though there can be various types of CNN accelerator, we assume that the
CPU
DDR
controller
DMA controller
Private local memory
Main memory
…
Multiple
PEs
MAC unit
BN
ACT
MAC unit
BN
ACT
Figure 15.2
Baseline system architecture. The light gray-shaded area corresponds to
the CNN accelerator while the dark gray-shaded area corresponds to the processing
elements in the accelerator.

--- Strana 260 ---
242
15 CPU-Accelerator Co-Scheduling for CNN Acceleration
CNN accelerator leverages multiple processing elements (PEs) by exploiting
the parallelism in the output channels of the OFMs. It means that each PE
generates different 2D (OH × OW) OFMs. For example, if we have M PEs in
the accelerator, we can generate M output channels simultaneously. Please
note that this type of accelerator design which exploits output channel paral-
lelism for multiple PE design is widely used [193–195]. Inside the PE, there are
multiply-and-accumulation (MAC) units, batch normalization (BN) units, and
activation (ACT) units. The accelerator on-chip memory, which is also referred
to as private local memory (PLM) is used as a local buffer in which we store
IFMs, weights, and OFMs (or intermediate results). Similar to typical embedded
systems, we use direct memory access (DMA) for data transfer between the CPU’s
main memory and the accelerator’s PLM.
15.2
CNN Acceleration with CPU-Accelerator
Co-Scheduling
This section provides an overview of the introduced CNN acceleration with
CPU-accelerator co-scheduling technique. This section further presents the
convolution layer latency model for the CNN accelerator and the CPU that is
utilized by the introduced CPU-accelerator co-scheduling technique for CNN
acceleration.
15.2.1
Overview
To fully utilize both the CNN accelerator and the CPU in resource-constrained
edge devices, this work aims at distributing the CNN CONV layer tasks to the
CNN accelerator and the CPU in a load-balanced manner by carefully consid-
ering the performance ratio between the CPU and the accelerator. Since there
is no dependency when generating different output channels (i.e., they can be
executed in parallel) in a single CONV layer, we divide the output channels to dis-
tribute the tasks into the accelerator and CPU. Consequently, we perform CONV
layer operations in the accelerator and the CPU with different 3D filter tensors.
Figure 15.3 demonstrates an overview of the presented co-scheduling technique.
To fully utilize the accelerator and CPU, we need to estimate the relative difference
of the achievable performance in the accelerator and CPU. For accurate estima-
tion, we use a latency model of the CONV layer operations for the accelerator and
CPU, which is described in Section 15.2.2 in details. With the estimated relative
attainable performance of the accelerator and CPU, we distribute output chan-
nels (i.e., 3D filter tensors) to the accelerator and CPU. The information on the
output channel distribution is stored in the CNN framework (Figure 15.3), which

--- Strana 261 ---
15.2 CNN Acceleration with CPU-Accelerator Co-Scheduling
243
CNN framework
…
Co-scheduling
module
(run by CPU) 
…
IFMs
IFMs
CNN accelerator 
3D Filter 0
3D Filter K-1
3D Filter K
3D Filter OC-1
*
*
BatchNorm
activation
OFMs
K output channels
CPU
BatchNorm
activation
Output
channel
distribution
information
Co-execution
control 
Offline
latency model 
OC-K output channels
Figure 15.3
An overview of the presented CPU-accelerator co-scheduling.
will be referenced at runtime. In the example shown in Figure 15.3, we assign
“K” 3D filter tensors (which will be used for generating “K” output channels) to
the CNN accelerator while we assign “OC −K” filter tensors to the CPU. At run-
time, the co-execution control module, which is executed on the CPU in the pre-
sented co-scheduling technique, launches the accelerator, and CPU co-execution
for given output channels. The CONV layer operation includes convolution, batch
normalization (BatchNorm), and activation. After we generate “K” and “OC −K”
2D OFMs in the accelerator and the CPU, respectively, we aggregate those OFMs
to compose the full 3D OFM tensor.
15.2.2
Linear Regression-Based Latency Model
For latency estimation, we use a linear regression-based methodology. In general
linear regression, we use a following form of the equation:
Y = 𝛼X + 𝛽
(15.1)
where X and Y are explanatory and dependent variables, respectively. With the
pairs of X and Y values, we determine 𝛼and 𝛽values through the linear regression
training (line fitting). Based on the above form of the equation, we extend it to
estimate accelerator and CPU latencies when processing a single CONV layer.
15.2.2.1
Accelerator Latency Model
In this chapter, we present a linear regression-based latency model for CONV
layer executions in the CNN accelerators introduced in Section 15.1.2. For typical
task offloading to the hardware IPs in embedded systems, we firstly need to send
the data from the main memory to the accelerator’s PLM via DMA. After that,

--- Strana 262 ---
244
15 CPU-Accelerator Co-Scheduling for CNN Acceleration
the accelerator executes the offloaded computations and sends the result data
back to the main memory via DMA. Between the data transfer, if we do not
use a cache-coherent interconnect, we also need to perform CPU data cache
flush and invalidation for software managed cache coherence, which also takes
nonnegligible latency depending on the amount of the data to be transferred.
Thus, an accelerator latency requires to be broken down into three different parts:
computation, data transfer, and coherence latency.
Computation Latency
For computation latency, it mainly depends on how many operations we need to
generate the OFMs. Firstly, we generate a unit latency LuACC that corresponds to
the computation latency in the 1PE accelerator (i.e., the accelerator with one PE)
when generating one OFM element. Deriving LuACC can be done as follows:
LuACC = 𝛼comp × SizeFT + 𝛽comp
(15.2)
where SizeFT indicates the number of elements in one 3D filter tensor. For
example, if one 3D filter tensor size is 3×3×3, the SizeFT is 27. The 𝛼comp and
𝛽comp are determined by the linear regression analysis. We can extend it to derive
the accelerator computation latency (Lcomp) when generating NF OFMs (i.e., NF
output channels) as follows:
Lcomp = LuACC × SizeOFM ×
⌈NF
NPE
⌉
(15.3)
where SizeOFM, NF, and NPE correspond to the number of the elements in one 2D
OFM, the total number of output channels in a certain CONV layer, and the num-
ber of PEs in the accelerator, respectively. The
⌈
NF
NPE
⌉
equals to how many times the
accelerator execution must be triggered. For example, if we run a CONV layer with
NF = 28 in the accelerator with NPE = 10, the number of times the accelerator’s PE
execution will be triggered is equal to 3 (=⌈28/10⌉). Accordingly, we calculate the
latency of the accelerator when generating the total number of the output channels
(i.e., NF output channels) in a certain CONV layer because we need to calculate the
relative performance ratio between the accelerator and CPU. In other words, we
should derive the latency of the accelerator and CPU when we execute the CONV
layer with the identical input data size.
Transfer Latency
The transfer latency is also linearly proportional to the size of data to be trans-
ferred. Thus, the transfer latency can be estimated by the following equation:
Ltran = 𝛼tran × SizeData + 𝛽tran
(15.4)

--- Strana 263 ---
15.2 CNN Acceleration with CPU-Accelerator Co-Scheduling
245
where SizeData indicates a total size of the data (in the number of the elements)
to be transferred. The 𝛼tran and 𝛽tran are also determined by the linear regression
analysis. The SizeData can be calculated as follows:
SizeData = SizeIFMs + Sizegamma + Sizebeta
+ SizeFT × NF + SizeOFM × NF.
(15.5)
For input data transfer, we need to count SizeIFMs, Sizegamma, and Sizebeta which
correspond to the number of elements of (multiple) input feature maps, gamma
values, and beta values for batch normalization. Depending on the CONV layer
configurations, Sizegamma and/or Sizebeta can be neglected. We also need to count
the total number of the elements in NF 3D filter tensors, which can be derived
by multiplying SizeFT by NF. For output transfer, we count the data size (in the
number of elements) of the OFMs generated by the accelerator, which is calculated
by SizeOFM × NF.
Coherence Latency
The coherence latency model is composed of two parts: cache flush and cache
invalidation. The cache flush is required before we trigger DMA read (send input
data to the accelerator PLM) while the cache invalidation is required before
we trigger DMA write (send output data from the PLM to the main memory).
For cache flush latency (Lfl), we use the following equation:
Lfl = 𝛼fl × (SizeIFMs + Sizegamma + Sizebeta
+ SizeFT × NF) + 𝛽fl
(15.6)
where 𝛼fl and 𝛽fl correspond to the coefficient values for cache flush. Cache inval-
idation latency (Linv) can also be estimated by using the following equation:
Linv = 𝛼inv × SizeOFM × NF + 𝛽inv
(15.7)
where 𝛼inv and 𝛽inv correspond to the coefficient values for cache invalidation. By
adding Lfl and Linv, we can estimate the total latency required for cache coherence
as shown in the following equation:
Lcohr = Lfl + Linv.
(15.8)
Latency Aggregation
The total latency taken by the accelerator can be derived by adding the computa-
tion, transfer, and coherence latency as follows:
LACC = Lcomp + Ltran + Lcohr.
(15.9)
In the baseline system, the data transfer, computation, and coherence operations
are not overlapped. However, the presented latency model can also be extended

--- Strana 264 ---
246
15 CPU-Accelerator Co-Scheduling for CNN Acceleration
to other systems where an overlap exists between data transfer, computation, and
coherence operations. For example, when we use cache-coherent interconnects,
we can just remove Lcohr because the explicit cache flush and invalidation are not
required in the system with cache-coherent interconnects. When using double
buffering where the transfer latency and computation latency can be overlapped,
we can replace Lcomp + Ltran with MAX(Lcomp, Ltran).
15.2.2.2
CPU Latency Model
We also present a linear regression-based latency model for CONV layer execu-
tions in the CPU. Different from the accelerator latency model, CPUs use cache
memories for data transfer between the CPU core and main memory. Since it is
not explicitly controlled by software programmer, accurately estimating the data
transfer time in the CPU would be more challenging than that in the accelerator.
Hence, we use a unified latency model, which means we do not distinguish the
data transfer and computation latency. By leveraging the linear regression-based
latency model, we figure out the CPU latency depending on the number of the
OFM elements generated by the CPU along with the CPU unit latency (LuCPU: a
CPU latency for generating one OFM element). This is because the computation
and data transfer (implicitly via caches) latencies will be linearly proportional to
the number of the generated OFM elements. The CPU unit latency can be derived
as follows:
LuCPU = 𝛼CPU × SizeFT + 𝛽CPU
(15.10)
where the SizeFT equals to the size (in the number of elements) of the one 3D filter
tensor. The coefficients 𝛼CPU and 𝛽CPU, which will inherently incorporate the effect
of both computation and data transfer on CPU unit latency, are also determined
by the linear regression. With the CPU unit latency model, we can extend it to
estimate the total CONV layer latency in the CPU (LCPU) as follows:
LCPU = LuCPU × SizeOFM × NF
(15.11)
where SizeOFM × NF corresponds to the number of the total OFM elements in a
certain CONV layer.
15.2.3
Channel Distribution
With the estimated latency from the presented model, we distribute the output
channels in order to fully utilize the accelerator and CPU in the system. To accom-
plish it, we need to distribute the output channels so that the execution time of
the accelerator and the CPU is (almost) equivalent. Thus, we use the following
equations for the output channel distribution for the accelerator:
NFA =
⌈(
LCPU
LACC + LCPU
)
× NF
⌉
(15.12)

--- Strana 265 ---
15.2 CNN Acceleration with CPU-Accelerator Co-Scheduling
247
where NFA means the number of the output channels which will be processed in
the accelerator. For example, assuming that the accelerator performance is three
times better than the CPU (i.e., LACC:LCPU=1:3), the accelerator should process
three times more tasks than the CPU in order to fully remove the idle time in
both the CPU and the accelerator. Obviously, the rest of the filter tensors must be
processed in the CPU, which means:
NFC = NF −NFA
(15.13)
where NFC corresponds to the number of the output channels which will be pro-
cessed in the CPU. As we mentioned in Section 15.2.1, determining the NFA and
NFC is performed offline, which means the distribution decision for a given embed-
ded system and CNN model is performed at the design time. Once we determine
the output channel distribution, this information is stored in the CNN framework
(Figure 15.3). At runtime, when processing a certain CONV layer, the CNN frame-
work can distribute the tasks (output channels) to the accelerator and CPU by the
distribution information stored in the framework.
15.2.4
Prototype Implementation
We have implemented the presented co-scheduling technique in Darknet frame-
work [143], which is used as the baseline CNN framework, and have verified the
presented co-scheduling technique using four off-the-shelf FPGA-SoC platforms:
Ultra96 [196], Zed [144], ZCU104 [197], and ZCU106 [160]. These platforms
deploy various types of the CPUs, which are summarized in Table 15.1. For
the implementation, we use interrupt-based mechanism to simultaneously
execute the CONV layer operations on the accelerator and the CPU, which is
similar to that introduced in [109]. In the presented prototype implementation,
though we do not employ double buffering, the presented latency model and
co-scheduling can also be extended to support double buffering as we explained
in Section 15.2.2.1. Since the prototype is mainly for verification and proof of
the implementation, we run the modified framework in each platform without
running an operating system (OS). Please note that this environment is similar
to resource-constrained embedded edge devices where the firmware orchestrates
the system without running OS. The precision for CNN models used in this work
is 32-bit floating-point; however, the presented technique can also be applied to
other precisions such as 16-bit fixed-point and 8-bit integer without modifying
the latency model and channel distribution mechanism.
Figure 15.4 shows the timing diagram of the presented co-scheduling technique
based on the interrupt mechanism. The main framework runs on the CPU, and
initialization is performed before the co-execution in the CPU and the accelerator.
The initialization ( 1⃝) includes information fetching required for the presented

--- Strana 266 ---
248
15 CPU-Accelerator Co-Scheduling for CNN Acceleration
Table 15.1
CPU speciﬁcations for four FPGA-SoC platforms.
Platform
Ultra96
Zed
ZCU104, ZCU106
CPU architecture
Quad-core Cortex-A53
Dual-core Cortex-A9
Quad-core Cortex-A53
Clock Frequency
Up to 1200 MHz
Up to 667 MHz
Up to 1334 MHz
Per core L1 Cache
32 KB I-Cache, 32 KB
D-Cache
32KB I-Cache, 32 KB
D-Cache
32 KB I-Cache, 32 KB
D-Cache
L2 Cache
Shared 1 MB
Shared 512 KB
Shared 1 MB
CPU
DMA transfer
Accelerator
…
…
…
…
Initialization
CPU execution
DMA and cache flush/invalidate
Interrupt handler
Accelerator execution
Interrupt signal
1
2
3
4
5
6
3
Figure 15.4
A timing diagram of the presented co-scheduling implementation.
co-scheduling technique (e.g., NFA and NFC). When a CONV layer execution
begins, the CPU launches data transfer which includes cache flush in the CPU
and DMA transfer ( 2⃝). During the DMA transfer, the CPU begins to generate
the NFC OFMs ( 3⃝). As soon as the DMA transfer finishes, the accelerator begins
to generate NFA OFMs ( 4⃝). When the accelerator finishes the execution, a cache
invalidation in the CPU and DMA write operation ( 5⃝) begins in order to send
the generated OFMs from the accelerator’s PLM to the main memory to make the
data visible to the CPU. During the DMA write operations, the CPU can continue
executing the CONV layer operations for generating the NFC OFMs because
the DMA transfer and CPU execution can be performed in parallel. When the
accelerator needs to be triggered by multiple times during a single CONV layer

--- Strana 267 ---
15.2 CNN Acceleration with CPU-Accelerator Co-Scheduling
249
Table 15.2
Obtained 𝛼and 𝛽values through linear regression analysis.
Ultra96
Zed
ZCU104
ZCU106
𝛼tran
0.01
0.009999
0.009998
0.009999
𝛽tran
2.697551
2.162106
2.458088
2.472711
𝛼comp
0.099999
0.150077
0.090014
0.090021
𝛽comp
0.237558
0.309062
0.218302
0.218306
𝛼fl
0.008811
0.009323
0.006082
0.006101
𝛽fl
0.514771
6.101897
0.491329
0.314022
𝛼inv
0.008812
0.003748
0.006084
0.006091
𝛽inv
1.663402
0.986305
1.036251
0.900236
𝛼CPU
0.049176
0.072254
0.049155
0.049176
𝛽CPU
0.116896
0.164479
0.113563
0.113043
execution because of the larger number of OFMs than the accelerator’s PEs can
handle concurrently, these steps can be iterated ( 6⃝) until the accelerator and
CPU generates NFA and NFC OFMs, respectively.
For prototype implementation, we acquire 𝛼and 𝛽values via linear regression
analysis. For training the linear regression model (i.e., acquiring 𝛼and 𝛽values),
we use synthetically generated arbitrary 32 data points each for regression train-
ing of transfer time, flush and invalidation (coherence) time, and computation
time. Please note that the range of the arbitrarily generated data points sufficiently
covers the range of the data points used in real CNN models, resulting in accu-
rate latency estimation. We demonstrate the coefficient values and plots obtained
from the presented linear regression analysis in Table 15.2 and Figures 15.5–15.8,
90
75
60
45
Latency (us)
30
15
0
0
100
200
300
# of data elements
LuACC
LuCPU
Latency (us)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
0
5000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
30,000
# of data elements
(b)
(a)
Ltran
Lfl
Linv
400
500
600
Figure 15.5
Plots for linear regressions in Ultra96 platform. (a) Linear regression for
transfer, cache ﬂush, and invalidation latencies and (b) Linear regression for accelerator
and CPU unit latencies.

--- Strana 268 ---
250
15 CPU-Accelerator Co-Scheduling for CNN Acceleration
90
75
60
45
Latency (us)
30
15
0
0
100
200
300
# of data elements
LuACC
LuCPU
Latency (us)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
0
5000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
30,000
# of data elements
(b)
(a)
Ltran
Lfl
Linv
400
500
600
Figure 15.6
Plots for linear regressions in Zed platform. (a) Linear regression for
transfer, cache ﬂush, and invalidation latencies and (b) Linear regression for accelerator
and CPU unit latencies.
90
75
60
45
Latency (us)
30
15
0
0
100
200
300
# of data elements
LuACC
LuCPU
Latency (us)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
0
5000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
30,000
# of data elements
(b)
(a)
Ltran
Lfl
Linv
400
500
600
Figure 15.7
Plots for linear regressions in ZCU104 platform. (a) Linear regression for
transfer, cache ﬂush, and invalidation latencies and (b) Linear regression for accelerator
and CPU unit latencies.
90
75
60
45
Latency (us)
30
15
0
0
100
200
300
# of data elements
LuACC
LuCPU
Latency (us)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
0
5000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
30,000
# of data elements
(b)
(a)
Ltran
Lfl
Linv
400
500
600
Figure 15.8
Plots for linear regressions in ZCU106 platform. (a) Linear regression for
transfer, cache ﬂush, and invalidation latencies and (b) Linear regression for accelerator
and CPU unit latencies.

--- Strana 269 ---
15.3 Experimental Results
251
respectively. We use Microsoft Excel for linear regression analysis. As shown in
Figures 15.5–15.8, the computation time and transfer time are well fitted to the
linear function (as a form of Y = 𝛼X + 𝛽). We can notice that the plots in Figures
15.7 and 15.8 seem to be almost identical. This is because ZCU104 and ZCU106
have almost identical specifications except for the connectivity parts.
15.3
Experimental Results
In this section, we present the experimental results for the presented co-scheduling
technique related to various metrics, such as latency model accuracy (measured
via mean absolute percentage error (MAPE)), performance, and energy consump-
tion. We evaluate these metrics for the implemented prototypes in Ultra96, Zed,
ZCU104, and ZCU106. For CPU clock frequencies, we use the following clock
frequencies for each platform: Ultra96, ZCU104, and ZCU106 at 1.2 GHz and Zed
at 667 MHz. We also perform the linear regression analysis with these CPU clock
frequencies. To evaluate the presented technique across the wide spectrum of
accelerators, we implement three different accelerator versions for each platform
while varying the number of PEs: 2PE, 4PE, and 8PE, where xPE denotes an
accelerator with the “x” number of PEs. Since the target is resource-constrained
edge devices, we do not consider the CNN accelerator design with massive
number of PEs (e.g., over 100 PEs).
For workloads, we use 14 different CONV layers as shown in Table 15.3. Six
layers (Layer 0, 1, 2, 3, 5, and 6) are from SqueezeNet [62] while five layers (Layer 4,
7, 8, 9, and 10) are from MobileNet-v2 [34]. The rest of the three layers (Layer 11, 12,
and 13) are synthetically generated for the evaluation. Please note that the results
shown in this section are the averaged results of the 14 CONV layer executions (i.e.,
we measure the results of each CONV layer separately and average them out).
15.3.1
Latency Model Accuracy
We show the MAPE results of the presented latency model. With the obtained 𝛼
and 𝛽values in the presented latency model, we measured the error rate between
the measured and estimated (from the presented model) latency of the accelerator
and CPU. As summarized in Table 15.4, the MAPE of the presented latency model
is 0.11–1.06%, which means the presented latency model estimates the accelera-
tor and CPU latency of the CONV layer execution very accurately. It also implies
that with the accurate latency estimation, we can distribute output channels to the
accelerator and the CPU so that both the hardware resources can be fully utilized,
minimizing the idle time and improving performance.

--- Strana 270 ---
252
15 CPU-Accelerator Co-Scheduling for CNN Acceleration
Table 15.3
Convolutional layer conﬁgurations for the benchmarks.
SizeIFMs
SizeOFM × NF
SizeFT × NF
Network
Layer 0
57 × 57 × 16
57 × 57 × 64
1 × 1 × 16 × 64
SN
Layer 1
57 × 57 × 16
57 × 57 × 64
3 × 3 × 16 × 64
SN
Layer 2
29 × 29 × 32
29 × 29 × 128
1 × 1 × 32 × 128
SN
Layer 3
29 × 29 × 32
29 × 29 × 128
3 × 3 × 32 × 128
SN
Layer 4
28 × 28 × 32
28 × 28 × 192
1 × 1 × 32 × 192
MN
Layer 5
15 × 15 × 64
15 × 15 × 256
3 × 3 × 64 × 256
SN
Layer 6
15 × 15 × 48
15 × 15 × 192
3 × 3 × 48 × 192
SN
Layer 7
14 × 14 × 96
14 × 14 × 576
1 × 1 × 96 × 576
MN
Layer 8
7 × 7 × 576
7 × 7 × 160
1 × 1 × 576 × 160
MN
Layer 9
7 × 7 × 320
7 × 7 × 1280
1 × 1 × 320 × 1280
MN
Layer 10
7 × 7 × 160
7 × 7 × 960
1 × 1 × 160 × 960
MN
Layer 11
7 × 7 × 160
7 × 7 × 160
3 × 3 × 160 × 160
SG
Layer 12
7 × 7 × 160
7 × 7 × 960
3 × 3 × 160 × 960
SG
Layer 13
7 × 7 × 160
7 × 7 × 1280
3 × 3 × 160 × 1280
SG
In the fifth column, SN, MN, and SG indicate SqueezeNet, MobileNet-V2, and Synthetically
Generated, respectively.
Table 15.4
MAPE results of the presented latency model.
Ultra96
Zed
ZCU104
ZCU106
LACC PE2
1 × 1 CONV
1.01%
0.82%
1.06%
1.06%
3 × 3 CONV
0.14%
0.18%
0.13%
0.13%
LACC PE4
1 × 1 CONV
0.74%
0.26%
0.63%
0.63%
3 × 3 CONV
0.16%
0.17%
0.12%
0.11%
LACC PE8
1 × 1 CONV
0.47%
0.98%
0.87%
0.87%
3 × 3 CONV
0.26%
0.26%
0.19%
0.19%
LCPU
1 × 1 CONV
0.65%
0.40%
0.48%
0.47%
3 × 3 CONV
0.76%
0.67%
0.68%
0.68%
PE2, PE4, and PE8 corresponds to the MAPEs of the accelerator latency model.

--- Strana 271 ---
15.3 Experimental Results
253
15.3.2
Performance
We evaluate the performance of the presented co-scheduling technique through
experimental results. Figure 15.9 shows the performance results across three
different configurations: CPU_ONLY (only CPU execution), ACC_ONLY (only
accelerator execution), and CPU+ACC (co-scheduling). Experimental results
indicate that when we use 2PE accelerator version, relative performance of the
accelerator compared to CPU_ONLY is 0.97 × −1.09×. This limited performance
improvement for 2PE case is due to small number of PEs in the accelerator.
The presented co-scheduling (CPU+ACC) results in better performance by
1.93 × −2.05× and 1.89 × −2.00× than CPU_ONLY and ACC_ONLY, respectively.
By utilizing both accelerator and CPU, the presented co-scheduling technique
leads to better performance than CPU_ONLY and ACC_ONLY.
Experimental results indicate that in the case of 4PE accelerator version, rela-
tive performance of the accelerator compared to the CPU is better than the case
of 2PE accelerator. Thus, CPU+ACC leads to better performance as compared to
the CPU_ONLY by 2.84 × −3.07×. As compared to ACC_ONLY, CPU+ACC shows
better performance by 1.43 × −1.48×. Though the relative performance improve-
ment of the CPU+ACC is less than that in the case of 2PE accelerator version, the
CPU+ACC still results in better performance due to the concurrent execution of
the CONV layer in the accelerator and CPU.
In the case of 8PE accelerator version, the CPU+ACC shows better performance
than CPU_ONLY and ACC_ONLY by 4.58 × −4.98× and 1.18 × −1.21×, respec-
tively. As demonstrated in the evaluation results, due to the accurate latency
model, the presented technique minimizes the idle time in either accelerator or
CPU, leading to better performance as compared to CPU_ONLY and ACC_ONLY.
5.5
5
4.5
4
3.5
3
2.5
2
1.5
1
0.5
Normalized perfomance
0
PE 2
PE 4
Ultra96
PE 8
PE 2
PE 4
Zed
PE 8
PE 2
PE 4
ZCU104
Platforms
PE 8
PE 2
PE 4
ZCU106
PE 8
CPU_ONLY
ACC_ONLY
CPU+ACC
Figure 15.9
Performance results of ACC_ONLY and CPU+ACC normalized to CPU_ONLY.

--- Strana 272 ---
254
15 CPU-Accelerator Co-Scheduling for CNN Acceleration
Table 15.5
Results for a ratio (%) of the idle time to the total execution time.
Ultra96
Zed
ZCU104
ZCU106
PE2
PE4
PE8
PE2
PE4
PE8
PE2
PE4
PE8
PE2
PE4
PE8
Layer 0
2.22
3.04
6.85
2.81
2.79
7.16
0.14
1.63
6.00
0.13
1.64
5.97
Layer 1
0.35
3.19
1.94
1.02
3.98
3.06
0.85
0.31
0.39
0.84
0.33
0.39
Layer 2
0.63
0.06
1.83
0.41
0.83
6.55
1.34
0.91
3.84
1.33
0.92
3.86
Layer 3
0.73
0.77
1.14
0.60
0.38
2.15
1.02
0.37
1.59
1.02
0.38
1.59
Layer 4
1.11
1.06
1.93
1.50
2.50
0.81
0.61
1.86
2.88
0.61
1.86
2.90
Layer 5
0.07
0.43
1.71
0.31
0.03
0.47
0.33
0.74
1.49
0.33
0.75
1.49
Layer 6
0.66
1.51
1.91
0.25
0.65
0.70
0.74
0.81
0.94
0.74
0.79
0.98
Layer 7
2.91
4.92
2.08
4.18
3.43
0.70
4.14
2.29
4.89
4.10
2.29
4.91
Layer 8
1.17
1.51
2.89
0.17
0.60
1.79
0.56
2.41
1.51
0.57
2.40
1.52
Layer 9
0.73
0.15
0.07
1.85
0.56
0.18
0.45
1.29
1.04
0.45
1.29
1.03
Layer 10
0.08
1.16
1.41
0.86
0.91
0.67
0.82
2.36
1.32
0.82
2.35
1.34
Layer 11
1.36
2.52
4.82
0.90
1.12
6.59
1.95
1.97
3.28
1.94
1.95
3.29
Layer 12
0.82
1.22
1.56
0.23
0.71
1.77
1.01
1.55
1.40
1.00
1.54
1.40
Layer 13
0.85
1.09
2.29
0.44
0.88
1.28
0.61
1.10
1.67
0.60
1.09
1.66
The bold cells represent the CPU idle time (i.e., the case in which the CPU finishes faster than the
accelerator) while the underlined cells denote the accelerator idle time (i.e., the case in which the
accelerator finishes faster than the CPU).
The main reason why the presented co-scheduling techniques obtains a huge
performance improvement is load balancing between the accelerator and CPU. To
measure how well the presented technique distributes the tasks in a load-balanced
manner, we present a ratio of the idle time to the total execution time in either the
accelerator or the CPU in Table 15.5. As shown in the results, the average idle
time is only 1.61% (maximum idle time is 7.16%), which implies the presented
technique almost completely removes the idle time. Results also demonstrate that
the output channel distribution of the presented co-scheduling technique based
on the presented latency model makes the CPU and accelerator to be fully utilized
as much as possible, thus maximizing the throughput.
15.3.3
Energy
We have also determined energy consumption for the presented co-scheduling
technique based on the platform-level power measured by HPM-300A power
meter [198]. Figure 15.10 summarizes the normalized energy results of

--- Strana 273 ---
15.3 Experimental Results
255
1.2
1
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
Normalized energy
0
PE 2
PE 4
Ultra96
PE 8
PE 2
PE 4
Zed
PE 8
PE 2
PE 4
ZCU104
Platforms
PE 8
PE 2
PE 4
ZCU106
PE 8
CPU_ONLY
ACC_ONLY
CPU+ACC
Figure 15.10
Energy results of ACC_ONLY and CPU+ACC normalized to CPU_ONLY.
CPU_ONLY, ACC_ONLY, and CPU+ACC. Due to the reduced execution
time, the presented co-scheduling approach CPU+ACC shows energy reduction
across different accelerators with varying number of PEs by 48.0–79.8% and
14.9–49.7% as compared to CPU_ONLY and ACC_ONLY, respectively. Results
indicate that the power consumption of the CPU+ACC increases as compared
to CPU_ONLY and ACC_ONLY because the CPU+ACC makes the CPU and
the accelerator to stay in the active state most of the time during the CONV
layer operations. In fact, CPU+ACC shows higher power consumption than
CPU_ONLY and ACC_ONLY by up to 1.8% and 1.3%, respectively, when we use
8PE accelerator version. However, the reduced execution time overwhelms the
increased power consumption, resulting in huge energy reductions.
15.3.4
Case Study: Tiny Darknet CNN Inferences
In this subsection, we show CNN inference latency results for all the layers in
the Tiny Darknet model [145]. As in Sections 15.3.2 and 15.3.3, we compare
the results of CPU_ONLY, ACC_ONLY, and CPU+ACC when executing a
CNN inference with the Tiny Darknet model. For a comprehensive analysis,
we breakdown the latencies of each layer in Tiny Darknet across CPU_ONLY,
ACC_ONLY, and CPU+ACC as shown in Table 15.6. Since the target platform
is a resource-constrained edge, we use 2PE CNN accelerator in the ACC_ONLY
and CPU+ACC. We use pretrained weight in Darknet framework and ImageNet
dataset [121] for the input. The results verify that the presented CPU+ACC leads
to a latency reduction of CNN inference (i.e., performance improvement) by 49.6%
and 44.8% as compared to CPU_ONLY and ACC_ONLY. Since the presented

--- Strana 274 ---
256
15 CPU-Accelerator Co-Scheduling for CNN Acceleration
Table 15.6
Per-layer latency results (in seconds) for CNN inferences with Tiny Darknet
model across CPU_ONLY, ACC_ONLY, and CPU+ACC.
CNN Layer #
Description
CPU_ONLY
ACC_ONLY
CPU+ACC
Layer 0
3 × 3 CONV
1.283221
1.057395
0.736854
Layer 1
2 × 2 max pooling
0.073256
0.073281
0.073755
Layer 2
3 × 3 CONV
3.039238
2.644233
1.526805
Layer 3
2 × 2 max pooling
0.035911
0.035959
0.036173
Layer 4
1 × 1 CONV
0.083625
0.078752
0.051595
Layer 5
3 × 3 CONV
2.895266
2.642671
1.419424
Layer 6
1 × 1 CONV
0.317731
0.328591
0.225072
Layer 7
3 × 3 CONV
2.894089
2.642836
1.419433
Layer 8
2 × 2 max pooling
0.035706
0.035747
0.035734
Layer 9
1 × 1 CONV
0.158447
0.148602
0.085157
Layer 10
3 × 3 CONV
2.841999
2.623150
1.401368
Layer 11
1 × 1 CONV
0.313930
0.294245
0.167850
Layer 12
3 × 3 CONV
2.841940
2.623151
1.401373
Layer 13
2 × 2 max pooling
0.017782
0.017908
0.017954
Layer 14
1 × 1 CONV
0.157549
0.147017
0.078937
Layer 15
3 × 3 CONV
2.830288
2.617322
1.373944
Layer 16
1 × 1 CONV
0.313590
0.292231
0.156487
Layer 17
3 × 3 CONV
2.830093
2.617305
1.373931
Layer 18
1 × 1 CONV
0.627162
0.583194
0.311537
Layer 19
1 × 1 CONV
1.239286
1.153453
0.609620
Layer 20
14 × 14 avg pooling
0.008565
0.008591
0.008588
Layer 21
Softmax
0.000197
0.000197
0.000197
Total
24.838871
22.665831
12.511788
Source: Adapted from [145].
acceleration technique only accelerates the CONV layer, the latency of max
pooling (Layers 1, 3, 8, and 13), average pooling (Layer 20), and softmax (Layer
21) layers in CPU+ACC is similar to the latency in the case of the CPU_ONLY
and ACC_ONLY (i.e., the layers except for the CONV layers are performed in
the CPU). However, since 16 layers in the Tiny Darknet model are CONV layers
that accounts for 73% of the total layers, the presented CPU+ACC results in a
huge CNN inference performance improvement of 1.81 × −1.99× as compared to

--- Strana 275 ---
15.4 Chapter Summary
257
the CPU_ONLY and ACC_ONLY. Please note that the latency of the ACC_ONLY
in Layer 6 is a little higher than the CPU_ONLY, which is not consistent with
the other CONV layers (i.e., for the CONV layers except for Layer 6, the latency
of the ACC_ONLY is lower than that of the CPU_ONLY). This is because we
trigger the accelerator twice in Layer 6 due to the limited on-chip memory size
(i.e., block random access memory (BRAM) size), resulting in much longer data
transfer latency.
15.4
Chapter Summary
Recent trend of artificial intelligence (AI) at the edge has resulted in assimilation
of AI hardware accelerators in edge devices and edge servers for efficient AI infer-
ence. CNN acceleration at the edge has, in particular, gained tremendous attention
as CNN acceleration at the edge can help enable many novel applications such
as autonomous vehicles, surveillance, and robots. In typical resource-constrained
edge systems, while hardware accelerators are running, CPUs remain idle. How-
ever, the CPU can also contribute to the CONV layer execution along with the
accelerator, which can further improve performance and energy efficiency.
This chapter discussed the introduced CPU-accelerator co-scheduling tech-
nique to accelerate a single CONV layer operation during the CNN inference at
the edge. By exploiting the independence among the operations for generating
different CNN output feature maps, the presented co-scheduling technique
distributes the output channels to the accelerator and CPU, which leads to further
performance improvements as compared to the accelerator-only execution.
For load balancing between the accelerator and CPU, we also presented a linear
regression-based latency model which could estimate the CONV layer execution
time on the CPU and the accelerator. Based on the latency estimation from
the presented model, we can distribute the output channels in a load-balanced
manner so that the accelerator and the CPU can be fully utilized. The presented
technique helps in minimizing the idle time in the accelerator and the CPU,
resulting in performance improvements. We have implemented the presented
technique in four different FPGA-SoC platforms as a proof-of-concept. Experi-
mental results indicated that the presented co-scheduling technique improved
system performance by 1.18x to 2.00x as compared to the accelerator-only execu-
tion across a wide spectrum of the accelerator platforms. Moreover, the presented
technique also reduced platform-level energy consumption by 14.9–49.7% as
compared to the accelerator-only execution. In addition, as demonstrated in the
case study, a full layer CNN inference for Tiny Darknet CNN model with the
presented co-scheduling technique showed 1.81x to 1.99x better performance as
compared to that without the presented technique.

--- Strana 276 ---

--- Strana 277 ---
259
16
Conclusions
Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have revolutionized the field of artificial
intelligence (AI) and computer vision because of their ability to automatically
extract features from images and videos and make predictions about the content of
images/videos with accuracy equal to or even surpassing humans in many tasks.
To attain this high inference accuracy, size, and computational requirements of
the CNN models have drastically increased over the years, which make the deploy-
ment of CNN models in resource-constrained devices a challenging endeavor.
Furthermore, this exorbitant size and computational requirements make these
highly accurate CNN models infeasible for real-time applications on edge devices.
Thus, embedding CNN inference into various real-world applications on edge
devices necessitate the design of high-performance, area, and energy-efficient
CNN accelerator architectures. This book targeted the design of accelerators for
CNNs and discussed different techniques and approaches for designing CNN
accelerators.
Chapter 1 discussed the history and applications of deep neural networks
(DNNs) with an emphasis on CNNs. The chapter also elaborated the compute
and energy bottlenecks associated with high accuracy CNN inference on the edge
device.
Chapter 2 discussed the composition and layers of different CNN models. The
chapter also discussed various parameters and hyperparameters for CNNs. The
chapter further described some of the prominent high-accuracy CNN models,
such as AlexNet, VGGNet, and GoogleNet. The chapter further elucidated some
well-known datasets, such as MNIST, CIFAR, and ImageNet, which are often
used for training many of the contemporary CNNs. Furthermore, the chapter
discussed some of the architectural and algorithmic techniques for efficient
processing of high-accuracy CNN models.
Chapter 3 elaborated compressive coding methods for CNNs. The compressive
coding for CNNs was classified into two categories, namely, lossy and lossless com-
pression. For lossy compression, the chapter introduced quantization and pruning,
Accelerators for Convolutional Neural Networks, First Edition.
Arslan Munir, Joonho Kong, and Mahmood Azhar Qureshi.
© 2024 The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Published 2024 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

--- Strana 278 ---
260
16 Conclusions
whereas for lossless compression, the chapter discussed entropy-based coding and
some other coding techniques that can be employed for sparse matrices or ten-
sors. The chapter further provided a review of contemporary compressive coding
methods for CNNs.
Chapter 4 presented a novel input feature map (IFM) compression method.
The presented scheme exploited the activation sparsity in CNN models, which is
attributed to the rectified linear unit (ReLU) activation function. The presented
IFM data compression method, which is performed on the software side, removed
the transfer of zero-valued elements in IFMs. The presented lossless compression
method resulted in data transfer reduction between the memory and the accel-
erator. Experimental results indicated that the presented compression technique
reduced the data size and latency for IFM data transfer by 34.0–85.2% and
4.4–75.7%, respectively, as compared to the case without the data compression.
Chapter 5 introduced an arithmetic coding-based 5-bit weight compression
method. In addition, we have also introduced a decoding hardware for fast,
yet efficient runtime weight decoding (decompression). When employing our
technique to the pruned 5-bit quantized weights, our technique resulted in
57.5×–112.2× better compression ratio as compared to the uncompressed 32-bit
floating-point (FP) weights. Due to the reduced weight data size, our technique
also led to memory data transfer energy reduction by 89.2% (by up to 99.1%
for pruned weights), on average, as compared to the uncompressed 32-bit FP
weight data.
Chapter 6 provided an overview of dense CNN accelerators, which accept
IFMs and weights as dense matrices, thus changing the convolution operations
to dense matrix multiplication. The chapter also discussed the two widely used
architectures to implement the dense CNN accelerators, viz., systolic arrays and
multiply-accumulate (MAC) arrays. The chapter further provided a brief review
of the contemporary advances in dense CNN accelerators.
Chapter 7 introduced an iMAC CNN accelerator for resource-constrained
systems. The iMAC accelerator offloaded finer-grained operations required for
convolution layers to the accelerator hardware instead of offloading the entire
convolution layer operations. The chapter further presented the implementation
results focusing on the hardware utilization for the iMAC accelerator prototyped
on the ZED platform, which was equipped with Zynq-7020 system-on-chip, with
full-stack software including operating system (petaLinux).
Chapter 8 presented NeuroMAX – a dense accelerator which incorporated
multi-threaded processing element (PE) cores. NeuroMAX introduced an efficient
2D weight broadcast dataflow scheme which exploited the multilevel parallelism
of the processing engine and enabled hardware utilization close to a 100%. The
chapter discussed the hardware design and dataflow of NeuroMAX to elaborate
dense CNN accelerators. Experimental results indicated that NeuroMAX provided

--- Strana 279 ---
16 Conclusions
261
a throughput increase of 77.4% and a latency decrease of 47% with a 28% decrease
in the PE count against recently proposed dense accelerator designs for modern
CNNs. Experimental results further showed that NeuroMAX provided at least a
27% and a 29% decrease in power consumption and lookup table (LUT) count,
respectively, against prior field-programmable gate array (FPGA)-based CNN
accelerators.
Chapter 9 provided an overview of sparse CNN accelerators. The chapter dis-
cussed the reason for sparsity in CNN models and the importance of exploiting
this sparsity in CNN accelerators. The chapter further discussed the advances in
contemporary sparse CNN accelerators.
Chapter 10 introduced a sparse CNN accelerator that exploited sparsity in
IFMs to enhance performance, reduce energy consumption, and curtail data
transfer between the accelerator and the off-chip main memory. The presented
accelerator first compressed the IFMs and then performed convolution layer
operations with the compressed IFM engendering performance improvement and
energy reduction. Evaluation results from the prototype accelerator demonstrated
that the accelerator improved performance by 1.1×–22.6× depending on the
degree of the sparsity and filter size as compared to the central processing unit
(CPU)-based convolution layer execution. In terms of energy, the presented
accelerator led to 47.7–97.4% energy reduction as compared to the CPU-based
execution. Furthermore, the accelerator attained 1.9× (on average) better cost
efficiency with less or comparable power consumption as compared to several
state-of-the-art CNN accelerator designs.
Chapter 11 presented Sparse-PE, a multithreaded, general purpose, dot product
core for sparse CNNs. The core was designed to exploit two-sided sparsity, that
is, sparsity in both the weights and activations, to maximize the throughput and
hardware utilization. Unlike contemporary approaches for sparse accelerators that
use the compressed sparse column (CSC) format and the associated complex PE
design, the Sparse-PE core used the sparse binary mask format and had a rela-
tively low complexity. The chapter also presented novel, low-cost circuits, includ-
ing selection, computation, and accumulation, which, when used in conjunction,
allowed the core to skip huge number of computations involving zero data and
only favored computations involving nonzero data to maximize the throughput.
Experimental results showed that the Sparse-PE core could effectively keep the
hardware utilization above 85% at sparsity as high as 60%, for both the input acti-
vations and weights. The chapter also compared the performance of Sparse-PE
core-based accelerator against previous state-of-the-art dense and two-sided sparse
CNN accelerators. Sparse-PE offered, on average, 12×, 4.2×, 2.38×, and 1.98×,
speedup over NeuroMAX (dense), SCNN (sparse), Eyeriss v2 (sparse), and SparTen
(sparse), respectively.

--- Strana 280 ---
262
16 Conclusions
Chapter 12 introduced Phantom – a novel multithreaded, flexible, neural com-
putational core that exploited the two-sided sparsity to provide high gains in per-
formance at a relatively low hardware complexity. Phantom extended Sparse-PE
design introduced in Chapter 11. The chapter discussed the design of Phantom-2D
accelerator that used a 2D array of Phantom cores and also presented a novel
dataflow that efficiently used the capabilities of the Phantom cores. As opposed
to many previous approaches, the Phantom-2D accelerator could support all lay-
ers of a CNN, including unit and nonunit stride convolutions, and fully connected
(FC) layers. In addition, the chapter discussed a two-level load balancing strategy
that efficiently balanced the load across the architecture level (intercore), and at
the thread level (intracore) to minimize idling of the compute threads, thereby,
further increasing the throughput. Experimental results showed that, on average,
Phantom-2D accelerator performed 12×, 4.1×, 1.98×, and 2.36×, better than an
equivalent dense CNN architecture, SCNN, SparTen, and Eyeriss v2, respectively,
while retaining the energy efficiency of SparTen.
Chapter 13 provided an overview of hardware/software (HW/SW) co-design and
co-scheduling. The chapter first discussed the recent advancements in the HW/SW
co-design for resource-constrained systems. The chapter also discussed a cognitive
Internet of things architecture as an example of HW/SW co-design. Afterwards,
the chapter discussed the recent advancements in HW/SW co-scheduling.
Chapter 14 discussed the HW/SW co-design aspects of the iMAC accelerator
discussed in Chapter 7. The chapter focused on software-level supports to
efficiently partition and allocate the input channels to the iMAC accelerator and
to exploit the parallelism inside the convolution layer operations. Experimental
results revealed that the implementation attained 1.3× ∼2.0× speedup and
energy reduction of 19.4∼44.3% as compared to using only the CPU. Experimental
results verified that the HW/SW co-design in the iMAC accelerator achieved a
balanced trade-off between response time, energy, and cost for CNN inference in
resource-constrained systems.
Finally, Chapter 15 presented a CPU-accelerator co-scheduling technique
to accelerate a single convolution (CONV) layer operation during the CNN
inference at the edge. By exploiting the independence among the operations
for generating different CNN output feature maps, the co-scheduling technique
distributed the output channels to the accelerator and CPU, which led to further
performance improvements as compared to the accelerator-only execution. For
load balancing between the accelerator and the CPU, the chapter discussed a
linear regression-based latency model which could estimate the CONV layer
execution time on the CPU and the accelerator, based on which the output
channels could be distributed in a load-balanced manner so that the accelerator

--- Strana 281 ---
16 Conclusions
263
and the CPU could be fully utilized. Experimental results showed that the pre-
sented CPU-accelerator co-scheduling technique improved system performance
by 1.18×–2.00× as compared to the accelerator-only execution across a wide
spectrum of the accelerator platforms. Moreover, the presented technique also
reduced the platform-level energy consumption by 14.9–49.7% as compared to
the accelerator-only execution.
Although this book covered a variety of approaches for CNN acceleration, new
techniques for CNN acceleration are continuously being developed. Modern CNN
accelerators deliberate on the following design factors:
●Mixed Precision Support: CNNs accelerators strive for a balanced tradeoff
between the model accuracy, computation complexity, and the amount of data
transfer. To reduce computation complexity and the amount of data transfer,
low-precision weights, and feature maps are widely used. Accordingly, the
modern CNN accelerator designs contrive to support mixed precision (i.e.,
combined use of different numerical precisions such as 8-bit integer, 16-bit, and
32-bit floating types, etc.) in a single CNN accelerator for better computation
efficiency.
●Memory/Storage Architecture: As the weight and feature map sizes are con-
tinuously growing, efficient utilization of storage and memory bandwidth is
becoming increasingly important for attaining better performance. Thus, mod-
ern CNN accelerators are incorporating 3D-stacked memories to provide high
bandwidth memory. Furthermore, near-memory or in-memory processing for
CNNs is being considered in modern CNN accelerator designs for reducing the
amount of the data transfer between memory and the accelerator.
●Data Characteristics: As explained in this book, sparsity considerations and
support are prevalent in many contemporary CNN accelerators. Skipping the
ineffectual operations that result in zero value can greatly enhance the perfor-
mance and energy efficiency of a CNN accelerator.
Finally, some futuristic approaches in CNN accelerator design are the following:
●Exploiting New Technologies: Exploiting new technologies, such as new
memory cell or logic, will be a promising research direction for future CNN
accelerators. With new memory cells, such as resistive random-access memory
(ReRAM), we can easily implement compute-in-memory concept in the CNN
accelerator [199] by exploiting the cell characteristics. In addition, with new
logic, such as single-flux quantum (SFQ) logic [200], we can obtain much better
performance as compared to the conventional logic-based CNN accelerators.
According to [200], the SFQ-based neural processing unit (NPU) shows 23×
better performance as compared to the state-of-the-art NPUs.

--- Strana 282 ---
264
16 Conclusions
●Security and Privacy Consideration: CNNs may include processing of
security or privacy-sensitive data. With the conventional encryption methods,
encrypted data should be decrypted before performing the CNN operation,
which means that the privacy of users may not be preserved. The homomorphic
encryption, which enables operations over encrypted data, can be a good
candidate for security- and privacy-preserving CNNs.

--- Strana 283 ---
265
References
1 Chen, C., Seff, A., Kornhauser, A., and Xiao, J. (2015) DeepDriving: Learn-
ing Affordance for Direct Perception in Autonomous Driving, in 2015
IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), pp. 2722–2730,
doi:10.1109/ICCV.2015.312.
2 Russakovsky, O., Deng, J., Su, H., Krause, J., Satheesh, S., Ma, S., Huang, Z.,
Karpathy, A., Khosla, A., Bernstein, M., Berg, A.C., and Fei-Fei, L.
(2015) ImageNet Large Scale Visual Recognition Challenge 115 (3),
doi:10.1007/s11263-015-0816-y.
3 Deng, L., Li, J., Huang, J.T., Yao, K., Yu, D., Seide, F., Seltzer, M., Zweig, G.,
He, X., Williams, J., Gong, Y., and Acero, A. (2013) Recent Advances in Deep
Learning for Speech Research at Microsoft, in Proceedings of the IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing (ICASSP), pp.
8604–8608, doi:10.1109/ICASSP.2013.6639345.
4 Tan, M. and Le, Q.V. (2021) EfficientNetV2: Smaller Models and Faster Train-
ing. CoRR, abs/2104.00298. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.00298.
5 Le Cun, Y., Jackel, L., Boser, B., Denker, J., Graf, H., Guyon, I.,
Henderson, D., Howard, R., and Hubbard, W. (1989) Handwritten Digit
Recognition: Applications of Neural Network Chips and Automatic Learning.
IEEE Communications Magazine, 27 (11), 41–46, doi:10.1109/35.41400.
6 Sze, V., Chen, Y., Yang, T., and Emer, J.S. (2017) Efficient Processing of Deep
Neural Networks: A Tutorial and Survey. Proceedings of the IEEE, 105 (12),
2295–2329.
7 Hinton, G., Deng, L., Yu, D., Dahl, G.E., Mohamed, A.r., Jaitly, N., Senior, A.,
Vanhoucke, V., Nguyen, P., Sainath, T.N., and Kingsbury, B. (2012) Deep
Neural Networks for Acoustic Modeling in Speech Recognition: The Shared
Views of Four Research Groups. IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, 29 (6),
82–97, doi:10.1109/MSP.2012.2205597.
Accelerators for Convolutional Neural Networks, First Edition.
Arslan Munir, Joonho Kong, and Mahmood Azhar Qureshi.
© 2024 The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Published 2024 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

--- Strana 284 ---
266
References
8 Collobert, R., Weston, J., Bottou, L., Karlen, M., Kavukcuoglu, K., and
Kuksa, P. (2011) Natural Language Processing (Almost) from Scratch. Journal
of Machine Learning Research, 12, 2493–2537.
9 van den Oord, A., Dieleman, S., Zen, H., Simonyan, K., Vinyals, O.,
Graves, A., Kalchbrenner, N., Senior, A.W., and Kavukcuoglu, K. (2016)
WaveNet: A Generative Model for Raw Audio. CoRR, abs/1609.03499. URL
http://arxiv.org/abs/1609.03499.
10 Wu, Y., Schuster, M., Chen, Z., Le, Q.V., Norouzi, M., Macherey, W.,
Krikun, M., Cao, Y., Gao, Q., Macherey, K., Klingner, J., Shah, A., Johnson,
M., Liu, X., Kaiser, L., Gouws, S., Kato, Y., Kudo, T., Kazawa, H., Stevens,
K., Kurian, G., Patil, N., Wang, W., Young, C., Smith, J., Riesa, J., Rudnick,
A., Vinyals, O., Corrado, G., Hughes, M., and Dean, J. (2016) Google’s Neural
Machine Translation System: Bridging the Gap between Human and Machine
Translation. CoRR, abs/1609.08144. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1609.08144.
11 Tesla AI (2022) Artificial Intelligence & Autopilot. URL https://www.tesla
.com/AI.
12 Waymo (2022) Waymo Driver. URL https://waymo.com/waymo-driver/.
13 Bi, X.a., Liu, Y., Jiang, Q., Shu, Q., Sun, Q., and Dai, J. (2018) The Diagnosis
of Autism Spectrum Disorder Based on the Random Neural Network Cluster.
Frontiers in Human Neuroscience, 12, 257, doi:10.3389/fnhum.2018.00257.
URL https://www.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fnhum.2018.00257.
14 Guo, X., Dominick, K.C., Minai, A., Li, H., Erickson, C.A., and Lu, L. (2017)
Diagnosing Autism Spectrum Disorder from Brain Resting-State Functional
Connectivity Patterns Using a Deep Neural Network with a Novel Feature
Selection Method. Frontiers in Neuroscience, 11, doi:10.3389/fnins.2017.00460.
15 Ba¸stürk, A., Yüksei, M.E., Badem, H., and Çal𝚤¸skan, A. (2017) Deep Neural
Network Based Diagnosis System for Melanoma Skin Cancer, in 2017 25th
Signal Processing and Communications Applications Conference (SIU), pp. 1–4,
doi:10.1109/SIU.2017.7960563.
16 Siar, M. and Teshnehlab, M. (2019) Brain Tumor Detection Using Deep Neu-
ral Network and Machine Learning Algorithm, in 2019 9th International
Conference on Computer and Knowledge Engineering (ICCKE), pp. 363–368,
doi:10.1109/ICCKE48569.2019.8964846.
17 Qureshi, M.A. and Munir, A. (2020) PUF-IPA: A PUF-Based Identity Pre-
serving Protocol for Internet of Things Authentication, in 2020 IEEE 17th
Annual Consumer Communications Networking Conference (CCNC), pp. 1–7,
doi:10.1109/CCNC46108.2020.9045264.
18 Qureshi, M.A. and Munir, A. (2019) PUF-RLA: A PUF-Based Reliable and
Lightweight Authentication Protocol Employing Binary String Shuffling, in
2019 IEEE 37th International Conference on Computer Design (ICCD), pp.
576–584, doi:10.1109/ICCD46524.2019.00084.

--- Strana 285 ---
References
267
19 Qureshi, M.A. and Munir, A. (2022) PUF-RAKE: A PUF-Based Robust
and Lightweight Authentication and Key Establishment Protocol. IEEE
Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing, 19 (4), 2457–2475,
doi:10.1109/TDSC.2021.3059454.
20 Kong, J. and Koushanfar, F. (2014) Processor-Based Strong Physical Unclon-
able Functions With Aging-Based Response Tuning. IEEE Transactions on
Emerging Topics in Computing, 2 (1), 16–29, doi:10.1109/TETC.2013.2289385.
21 Kong, J., Koushanfar, F., Pendyala, P.K., Sadeghi, A.R., and Wachsmann,
C. (2014) PUFatt: Embedded Platform Attestation Based on Novel
Processor-Based PUFs, in 2014 51st ACM/EDAC/IEEE Design Automation
Conference (DAC), pp. 1–6, doi:10.1145/2593069.2593192.
22 Santikellur, P., Bhattacharyay, A., and Chakraborty, R.S. (2019) Deep Learn-
ing based Model Building Attacks on Arbiter PUF Compositions. IACR
Cryptol. ePrint Arch., 2019, 566.
23 Mursi, K.T., Thapaliya, B., Zhuang, Y., Aseeri, A.O., and Alkatheiri, M.S.
(2020) A Fast Deep Learning Method for Security Vulnerability Study of XOR
PUFs. Electronics, 9 (10), doi:10.3390/electronics9101715.
24 Mirsky, Y., Demontis, A., Kotak, J., Shankar, R., Gelei, D., Yang, L., Zhang,
X., Lee, W., Elovici, Y., and Biggio, B. (2021) The Threat of Offensive AI to
Organizations. CoRR, abs/2106.15764. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.15764.
25 Miao, Y., Chen, C., Pan, L., Han, Q., Zhang, J., and Xiang, Y. (2021) Machine
Learning Based Cyber Attacks Targeting on Controlled Information: A
Survey. CoRR, abs/2102.07969. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2102.07969.
26 Alavizadeh, H., Jang-Jaccard, J., Alpcan, T., and Çamtepe, S.A. (2021) A
Markov Game Model for AI-Based Cyber Security Attack Mitigation. CoRR,
abs/2107.09258. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.09258.
27 Rao, D. and Mane, S. (2021) Zero-Shot Learning Approach to Adaptive Cyber-
security Using Explainable AI. CoRR, abs/2106.14647. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2106.14647.
28 Silver, D., Huang, A., Maddison, C., Guez, A., Sifre, L., Driessche, G.,
Schrittwieser, J., Antonoglou, I., Panneershelvam, V., Lanctot, M., Dieleman,
S., Grewe, D., Nham, J., Kalchbrenner, N., Sutskever, I., Lillicrap, T., Leach,
M., Kavukcuoglu, K., Graepel, T., and Hassabis, D. (2016) Mastering the
Game of Go with Deep Neural Networks and Tree Search. Nature, 529,
484–489, doi:10.1038/nature16961.
29 Levine, S., Finn, C., Darrell, T., and Abbeel, P. (2015) End-to-End Training of
Deep Visuomotor Policies. CoRR, abs/1504.00702. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/
1504.00702.
30 Krizhevsky, A., Sutskever, I., and Hinton, G.E. (2012) ImageNet Classifica-
tion with Deep Convolutional Neural Networks, in Proceedings of the 25th

--- Strana 286 ---
268
References
International Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems - Volume 1,
Curran Associates Inc., Red Hook, NY, USA, NIPS ’12, pp. 1097–1105.
31 Simonyan, K. and Zisserman, A. (2015) Very Deep Convolutional Networks
for Large-Scale Image Recognition, in 3rd International Conference on Learn-
ing Representations (ICLR).
32 He, K., Zhang, X., Ren, S., and Sun, J. (2015) Deep Residual Learning for
Image Recognition. CoRR, abs/1512.03385. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1512
.03385.
33 Howard, A.G., Zhu, M., Chen, B., Kalenichenko, D., Wang, W., Weyand, T.,
Andreetto, M., and Adam, H. (2017) MobileNets: Efficient Convolutional
Neural Networks for Mobile Vision Applications. CoRR, abs/1704.04861. URL
http://arxiv.org/abs/1704.04861.
34 Sandler, M., Howard, A.G., Zhu, M., Zhmoginov, A., and Chen, L. (2018)
Inverted Residuals and Linear Bottlenecks: Mobile Networks for Classifica-
tion, Detection and Segmentation. CoRR, abs/1801.04381. URL http://arxiv
.org/abs/1801.04381.
35 Szegedy, C., Liu, W., Jia, Y., Sermanet, P., Reed, S., Anguelov, D., Erhan, D.,
Vanhoucke, V., and Rabinovich, A. (2015) Going Deeper with Convolutions,
in Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). URL http://arxiv.org/abs/
1409.4842.
36 Horowitz, M. (2014) 1.1 Computing’s Energy Problem (and what we can do
about it), in 2014 IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference Digest of
Technical Papers (ISSCC), vol. 57, pp. 10–14, doi:10.1109/ISSCC.2014.6757323.
37 Miyashita, D., Lee, E.H., and Murmann, B. (2016) Convolutional Neural Net-
works using Logarithmic Data Representation. CoRR, abs/1603.01025. URL
http://arxiv.org/abs/1603.01025.
38 Vogel, S., Liang, M., Guntoro, A., Stechele, W., and Ascheid, G. (2018) Effi-
cient Hardware Acceleration of CNNs Using Logarithmic Data Representation
with Arbitrary Log-Base, in Proceedings of the International Conference on
Computer-Aided Design, Association for Computing Machinery, New York,
NY, USA, ICCAD ’18, doi:10.1145/3240765.3240803.
39 Lin, D.D., Talathi, S.S., and Annapureddy, V.S. (2015) Fixed Point Quantiza-
tion of Deep Convolutional Networks. CoRR, abs/1511.06393. URL http://
arxiv.org/abs/1511.06393.
40 Moons, B., Uytterhoeven, R., Dehaene, W., and Verhelst, M. (2017) 14.5
Envision: A 0.26-to-10TOPS/W Subword-Parallel Dynamic-Voltage-Accuracy-
Frequency-Scalable Convolutional Neural Network Processor in 28nm FDSOI,
in 2017 IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference (ISSCC), IEEE,
pp. 246–247.

--- Strana 287 ---
References
269
41 Lee, J., Kim, C., Kang, S., Shin, D., Kim, S., and Yoo, H.J. (2018) UNPU:
An Energy-Efficient Deep Neural Network Accelerator with Fully Variable
Weight Bit Precision. IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuits, 54 (1), 173–185.
42 Judd, P., Albericio, J., Hetherington, T., Aamodt, T.M., and Moshovos, A.
(2016) Stripes: Bit-Serial Deep Neural Network Computing, in The 49th
Annual IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microarchitecture, IEEE
Press, MICRO-49.
43 Albericio, J., Judd, P., Hetherington, T., Aamodt, T., Jerger, N.E., and
Moshovos, A. (2016) Cnvlutin: Ineffectual-Neuron-Free Deep Neural Net-
work Computing, in 2016 ACM/IEEE 43rd Annual International Symposium
on Computer Architecture (ISCA), pp. 1–13, doi:10.1109/ISCA.2016.11.
44 Zhang, S., Du, Z., Zhang, L., Lan, H., Liu, S., Li, L., Guo, Q., Chen, T., and
Chen, Y. (2016) Cambricon-X: An Accelerator for Sparse Neural Networks, in
2016 49th Annual IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microarchitecture
(MICRO), pp. 1–12, doi:10.1109/MICRO.2016.7783723.
45 Chen, Y., Krishna, T., Emer, J.S., and Sze, V. (2017) Eyeriss: An
Energy-Efficient Reconfigurable Accelerator for Deep Convolutional Neural
Networks. IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuits, 52 (1), 127–138.
46 Han, S., Mao, H., and Dally, W.J. (2016) Deep Compression: Compressing
Deep Neural Network with Pruning, Trained Quantization and Huffman
Coding, in 4th International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR)
2016.
47 Pasandi, M.M., Hajabdollahi, M., Karimi, N., and Samavi, S. (2020) Modeling
of Pruning Techniques for Deep Neural Networks Simplification. CoRR,
abs/2001.04062. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.04062.
48 Ma, X., Lin, S., Ye, S., He, Z., Zhang, L., Yuan, G., Tan, S.H., Li, Z., Fan, D.,
Qian, X., Lin, X., Ma, K., and Wang, Y. (2020) Non-Structured DNN Weight
Pruning – Is It Beneficial in Any Platform? CoRR, abs/1907.02124. URL
http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.02124.
49 Liu, N., Ma, X., Xu, Z., Wang, Y., Tang, J., and Ye, J. (2019) AutoCompress:
An Automatic DNN Structured Pruning Framework for Ultra-High Compres-
sion Rates. CoRR, abs/1907.03141. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.03141.
50 Min, C., Wang, A., Chen, Y., Xu, W., and Chen, X. (2018) 2PFPCE:
Two-Phase Filter Pruning Based on Conditional Entropy. CoRR,
abs/1809.02220. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1809.02220.
51 Wen, W., Wu, C., Wang, Y., Chen, Y., and Li, H. (2016) Learning Structured
Sparsity in Deep Neural Networks. CoRR, abs/1608.03665. URL http://arxiv
.org/abs/1608.03665.
52 Chen, Y., Emer, J.S., and Sze, V. (2018) Eyeriss v2: A Flexible and
High-Performance Accelerator for Emerging Deep Neural Networks. CoRR,
abs/1807.07928. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1807.07928.

--- Strana 288 ---
270
References
53 Han, S., Liu, X., Mao, H., Pu, J., Pedram, A., Horowitz, M.A., and Dally, W.J.
(2016) EIE: Efficient Inference Engine on Compressed Deep Neural Net-
work, in 2016 ACM/IEEE 43rd Annual International Symposium on Computer
Architecture (ISCA), pp. 243–254, doi:10.1109/ISCA.2016.30.
54 Samajdar, A., Zhu, Y., Whatmough, P.N., Mattina, M., and Krishna, T. (2018)
SCALE-Sim: Systolic CNN Accelerator. CoRR, abs/1811.02883. URL http://
arxiv.org/abs/1811.02883.
55 Gunturu, S., Munir, A., Ullah, H., Welch, S., and Flippo, D. (2022) A Spatial
AI-Based Agricultural Robotic Platform for Wheat Detection and Collision
Avoidance. AI, 3 (3), 719–738, doi:10.3390/ai3030042.
56 Nirthika, R., Manivannan, S., Ramanan, A., and Wang, R. (2022) Pooling in
Convolutional Neural Networks for Medical Image Analysis: A Survey and an
Empirical Study. Springer Neural Computing and Applications, 34, 5321–5347.
57 Nyuytiymbiy, K. (2020) Parameters and Hyperparameters in Machine Learn-
ing and Deep Learning. URL https://towardsdatascience.com/parameters-and-
hyper parameters-aa609601a9ac.
58 Radhakrishnan, P. (2017) What are Hyperparameters? and How to Tune the
Hyperparameters in a Deep Neural Network? URL https://towardsdatascience
.com/what-are-hyperparameters-and-how-to-tune-the-hyperparameters-in-a-
deep-neural-network-d0604917584a.
59 Yathish, V. (2022) Loss Functions and Their Use In Neural Networks.
URL https://towardsdatascience.com/loss-functions-and-their-use-in-
neural-networks-a470e703f1e9#:~:text=A%20loss%20function%20is%20a,
the%20predicted%20and%20target%20outputs.
60 Szeliski, R. (2022) Computer Vision: Algorithms and Applications, 2nd edn,
Springer.
61 Karim, R. (2018) 10 Stochastic Gradient Descent Optimisation Algorithms
+ Cheatsheet. URL https://towardsdatascience.com/10-gradient-descent-
optimisation-algorithms-86989510b5e9.
62 Iandola, F.N., Moskewicz, M.W., Ashraf, K., Han, S., Dally, W.J., and Keutzer,
K. (2016) SqueezeNet: AlexNet-Level Accuracy with 50x Fewer Parameters
and <1MB Model Size.
63 Courbariaux, M., Bengio, Y., and David, J. (2015) BinaryConnect: Training
Deep Neural Networks with Binary Weights During Propagations. CoRR,
abs/1511.00363. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1511.00363
64 Courbariaux, M., Hubara, I., Soudry, D., El-Yaniv, R., and Bengio, Y. (2016)
Binarized Neural Networks: Training Deep Neural Networks with Weights
and Activations Constrained to +1 or −1. CoRR, abs/1602.02830. URL http://
arxiv.org/abs/1602.02830.

--- Strana 289 ---
References
271
65 Rastegari, M., Ordonez, V., Redmon, J., and Farhadi, A. (2016) XNOR-Net:
ImageNet Classification Using Binary Convolutional Neural Networks. CoRR,
abs/1603.05279. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1603.05279.
66 Tan, M. and Le, Q.V. (2019) EfficientNet: Rethinking Model Scaling for Con-
volutional Neural Networks. CoRR, abs/1905.11946. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/
1905.11946.
67 Tensorflow-MNIST (2022) MNIST. URL https://www.tensorflow.org/datasets/
catalog/mnist.
68 TensorFlow (2022) Tensorflow-CIFAR. URL https://www.tensorflow.org/
datasets/catalog/cifar10.
69 Yuan, L., Chen, D., Chen, Y., Codella, N., Dai, X., Gao, J., Hu, H., Huang,
X., Li, B., Li, C., Liu, C., Liu, M., Liu, Z., Lu, Y., Shi, Y., Wang, L., Wang, J.,
Xiao, B., Xiao, Z., Yang, J., Zeng, M., Zhou, L., and Zhang, P. (2021) Florence:
A New Foundation Model for Computer Vision. CoRR Arxiv, abs/2111.11432.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2111.11432.
70 Munir, A., Blasch, E., Kwon, J., Kong, J., and Aved, A. (2021) Artificial Intel-
ligence and Data Fusion at the Edge. IEEE Aerospace and Electronic Systems
Magazine, 36 (7), 62–78.
71 Munir, A., Kwon, J., Lee, J.H., Kong, J., Blasch, E., Aved, A., and
Muhammad, K. (2021) FogSurv: A Fog-Assisted Architecture for Urban
Surveillance Using Artificial Intelligence and Data Fusion. IEEE Access, 9,
111938–111959.
72 Poudel, B., Giri, N.K., and Munir, A. (2017) Design and Comparative Eval-
uation of GPGPU- and FPGA-Based MPSoC ECU Architectures for Secure,
Dependable, and Real-Time Automotive CPS, in Proceedings of IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Application-Specific Systems, Architectures and Processors
(ASAP), Seattle, Washington, USA.
73 Poudel, B. and Munir, A. (2021) Design and Evaluation of a Reconfigurable
ECU Architecture for Secure and Dependable Automotive CPS. IEEE Trans-
actions on Dependable and Secure Computing (TDSC), 18 (1), 235–252.
74 Khan, A., Umar, A.I., Munir, A., Shirazi, S.H., Khan, M.A., and Adnan, M.
(2021) A QoS-Aware Machine Learning-Based Framework for AMI Applica-
tions in Smart Grids. Energies, 14 (23), doi:10.3390/en14238171.
75 Archana, R., Vaishnavi, C., Priyanka, D.S., Gunaki, S., Swamy, S.R., and
Honnavalli, P.B. (2022) Remote Health Monitoring using IoT and Edge Com-
puting, in 2022 International Conference on IoT and Blockchain Technology
(ICIBT), Ranchi, India, pp. 1–6, doi:10.1109/ICIBT52874.2022.9807710.
76 Hafeez, T., Xu, L., and Mcardle, G. (2021) Edge Intelligence for Data Han-
dling and Predictive Maintenance in IIOT. IEEE Access, 9, 49355–49371,
doi:10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3069137.

--- Strana 290 ---
272
References
77 Qualcomm (2022) Snapdragon Neural Processing Engine SDK. URL https://
developer.qualcomm.com/sites/default/files/docs/snpe/.
78 Jouppi, N.P., Yoon, D.H., Ashcraft, M., Gottscho, M., Jablin, T.B., Kurian,
G., Laudon, J., Li, S., Ma, P., Ma, X., Norrie, T., Patil, N., Prasad, S., Young,
C., Zhou, Z., and Patterson, D. (2021) Ten Lessons From Three Genera-
tions Shaped Google’s TPUv4i: Industrial Product, in 2021 ACM/IEEE 48th
Annual International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA), pp. 1–14,
doi:10.1109/ISCA52012.2021.00010.
79 Xilinx (2022) Zynq DPU Product Guide. URL https://www.xilinx.com/content/
dam/xilinx/support/documentation/ip_documentation/dpu/v3_3/pg338-
dpu.pdf.
80 Samsung (2022) Exynos 2100. URL https://www.samsung.com/
semiconductor/minisite/exynos/products/mobileprocessor/exynos-2100/.
81 Ko, J.H., Mudassar, B., Na, T., and Mukhopadhyay, S. (2017) Design of an
Energy-Efficient Accelerator for Training of Convolutional Neural Networks
Using Frequency-Domain Computation, in 2017 54th ACM/EDAC/IEEE
Design Automation Conference (DAC), pp. 1–6, doi:10.1145/3061639.3062228.
82 Mathieu, M., Henaff, M., and LeCun, Y. (2014) Fast Training of Convolu-
tional Networks through FFTs, in 2nd International Conference on Learning
Representations, ICLR 2014, Banff, AB, Canada, April 14–16, 2014, Conference
Track Proceedings (eds Y. Bengio and Y. LeCun). URL http://arxiv.org/abs/
1312.5851.
83 Cong, J. and Xiao, B. (2014) Minimizing Computation in Convolu-
tional Neural Networks, in Artificial Neural Networks and Machine
Learning – ICANN 2014 (eds S. Wermter, C. Weber, W. Duch, T. Honkela,
P. Koprinkova-Hristova, S. Magg, G. Palm, and A.E.P. Villa), Springer Interna-
tional Publishing, Cham, pp. 281–290.
84 Strassen, V. (1969) Gaussian Elimination is not Optimal. Numerische Mathe-
matik, 13, 354–356. URL http://eudml.org/doc/131927.
85 Lavin, A. (2015) Fast Algorithms for Convolutional Neural Networks. CoRR,
abs/1509.09308. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1509.09308.
86 Winograd, S. (1980) Arithmetic Complexity of Computations, Society for
Industrial and Applied Mathematics, doi:10.1137/1.9781611970364. URL
https://epubs.siam.org.
87 Sankaradass, M., Jakkula, V., Cadambi, S., Chakradhar, S.T., Durdanovic, I.,
Cosatto, E., and Graf, H.P. (2009) A Massively Parallel Coprocessor for Con-
volutional Neural Networks, in 2009 20th IEEE International Conference on
Application-Specific Systems, Architectures and Processors, pp. 53–60.
88 Chakradhar, S., Sankaradas, M., Jakkula, V., and Cadambi, S. (2010)
A Dynamically Configurable Coprocessor for Convolutional Neural

--- Strana 291 ---
References
273
Networks. SIGARCH Computer Architecture News, 38 (3), 247–257,
doi:10.1145/1816038.1815993.
89 Chen, T., Du, Z., Sun, N., Wang, J., Wu, C., Chen, Y., and Temam, O. (2014)
DianNao: A Small-Footprint High-Throughput Accelerator for Ubiquitous
Machine-Learning, in Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on
Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems,
Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, ASPLOS ’14,
pp. 269–284, doi:10.1145/2541940.2541967.
90 Chen, Y., Luo, T., Liu, S., Zhang, S., He, L., Wang, J., Li, L., Chen, T., Xu,
Z., Sun, N., and Temam, O. (2014) DaDianNao: A Machine-Learning Super-
computer, in 2014 47th Annual IEEE/ACM International Symposium on
Microarchitecture, pp. 609–622, doi:10.1109/MICRO.2014.58.
91 Kim, D., Kung, J., Chai, S., Yalamanchili, S., and Mukhopadhyay, S. (2016)
Neurocube: A Programmable Digital Neuromorphic Architecture with
High-Density 3D Memory. SIGARCH Comput. Archit. News, 44 (3), 380–392,
doi:10.1145/3007787.3001178.
92 Gao, M., Pu, J., Yang, X., Horowitz, M., and Kozyrakis, C. (2017)
TETRIS: Scalable and Efficient Neural Network Acceleration with
3D Memory. SIGARCH Computer Architecture News, 45 (1), 751–764,
doi:10.1145/3093337.3037702.
93 Zhang, J., Wang, Z., and Verma, N. (2016) A Machine-Learning Classifier
Implemented in a Standard 6T SRAM Array. 2016 IEEE Symposium on VLSI
Circuits (VLSI-Circuits), pp. 1–2.
94 Han, S., Pool, J., Tran, J., and Dally, W.J. (2015) Learning both Weights and
Connections for Efficient Neural Network, in Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems 28: Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing
Systems 2015, pp. 1135–1143.
95 Zhou, A., Yao, A., Guo, Y., Xu, L., and Chen, Y. (2017) Incremental Net-
work Quantization: Towards Lossless CNNs with Low-Precision Weights, in
International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR2017.
96 Qureshi, M.A. and Munir, A. (2020) NeuroMAX: A High Throughput,
Multi-Threaded, Log-Based Accelerator for Convolutional Neural Networks,
in 2020 IEEE/ACM International Conference On Computer Aided Design
(ICCAD), pp. 1–9.
97 Choi, Y., El-Khamy, M., and Lee, J. (2016) Towards the Limit of Network
Quantization. arXiv:1612.01543. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.01543.
98 Shahbahrami, A., Bahrampour, R., Rostami, M.S., and Mobarhan, M.A.
(2011) Evaluation of Huffman and Arithmetic Algorithms for Multimedia
Compression Standards. CoRR, abs/1109.0216. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1109
.0216.

--- Strana 292 ---
274
References
99 Lee, J.H., Kong, J., and Munir, A. (2021) Arithmetic Coding-Based 5-Bit
Weight Encoding and Hardware Decoder for CNN Inference in Edge Devices.
IEEE Access, 9, 166736–166749, doi:10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3136888.
100 Saad, Y. (2003) Iterative Methods for Sparse Linear Systems, Society for Indus-
trial and Applied Mathematics, 2nd edn., doi:10.1137/1.9780898718003. URL
https://epubs.siam.org/doi/abs/10.1137/1.9780898718003.
101 Barrett, R., Berry, M., Chan, T.F., Demmel, J., Donato, J., Dongarra, J.,
Eijkhout, V., Pozo, R., Romine, C., and van der Vorst, H. (1994) Templates
for the Solution of Linear Systems: Building Blocks for Iterative Methods, Soci-
ety for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, doi:10.1137/1.9781611971538.
URL https://epubs.siam.org/doi/abs/10.1137/1.9781611971538.
102 Lee, J.H., Park, B., Kong, J., and Munir, A. (2022) Row-Wise Product-Based
Sparse Matrix Multiplication Hardware Accelerator With Optimal Load
Balancing. IEEE Access, 10, 64547–64559, doi:10.1109/ACCESS.2022.3184116.
103 Ko, J.H., Kim, D., Na, T., Kung, J., and Mukhopadhyay, S. (2017) Adaptive
Weight Compression for Memory-Efficient Neural Networks, in Design,
Automation, Test in Europe Conference Exhibition (DATE), 2017, pp. 199–204.
104 Ge, S., Luo, Z., Zhao, S., Jin, X., and Zhang, X.Y. (2017) Compressing Deep
Neural Networks for Efficient Visual Inference, in 2017 IEEE International
Conference on Multimedia and Expo (ICME), pp. 667–672.
105 Reagan, B., Gupta, U., Adolf, B., Mitzenmacher, M., Rush, A., Wei, G.Y., and
Brooks, D. (2018) Weightless: Lossy Weight Encoding for Deep Neural Net-
work Compression, in the 35th International Conference on Machine Learning,
pp. 4324–4333.
106 Choi, Y., El-Khamy, M., and Lee, J. (2020) Universal Deep Neural Network
Compression. IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing, 14 (4),
715–726.
107 Young, S., Wang, Z., Taubman, D., and Girod, B. (2021) Transform Quan-
tization for CNN Compression. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and
Machine Intelligence, 44 (9), 5700–5714.
108 Kwon, J., Kong, J., and Munir, A. (2022) Sparse Convolutional Neural
Network Acceleration with Lossless Input Feature Map Compression for
Resource-Constrained Systems. IET Computers & Digital Techniques, 16 (1),
29–43, doi:10.1049/cdt2.12038.
109 Lee, K., Kong, J., Kim, Y.G., and Chung, S.W. (2019) Memory Streaming
Acceleration for Embedded Systems with CPU-Accelerator Cooperative Data
Processing. Microprocessors and Microsystems - Embedded Hardware Design,
71, 102897.
110 Darwish, S.M. and Noori, Z.H. (2019) Secure Image Compression Approach
Based on Fusion of 3D Chaotic Maps and Arithmetic Coding. IET Signal
Processing, 13, 286–295(9).

--- Strana 293 ---
References
275
111 Guo, Z., Fu, J., Feng, R., and Chen, Z. (2021) Accelerate Neural Image
Compression with Channel-Adaptive Arithmetic Coding, in 2021 IEEE
International Symposium on Circuits and Systems (ISCAS), pp. 1–5.
112 Fong, C.F.B., Mu, J., and Zhang, W. (2019) A Cost-Effective CNN Accelerator
Design with Configurable PU on FPGA, in 2019 IEEE Computer Society
Annual Symposium on VLSI (ISVLSI), pp. 31–36.
113 Sit, M., Kazami, R., and Amano, H. (2017) FPGA-Based Accelerator for
Losslessly Quantized Convolutional Neural Networks, in 2017 International
Conference on Field Programmable Technology (ICFPT), pp. 295–298.
114 Struharik, R., Vukobratovic, B., Erdeljan, A., and Rakanovic, D. (2018)
CoNNA – Compressed CNN Hardware Accelerator, in 2018 21st Euromicro
Conference on Digital System Design (DSD), pp. 365–372.
115 Google (2022) Google Coral Dev Board. URL https://coral.ai/products/dev-
board/.
116 Yuan, G., Ma, X., Ding, C., Lin, S., Zhang, T., Jalali, Z.S., Zhao, Y., Jiang, L.,
Soundarajan, S., and Wang, Y. (2019) An Ultra-Efficient Memristor-Based
DNN Framework with Structured Weight Pruning and Quantization Using
ADMM, in 2019 IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Low Power Electron-
ics and Design (ISLPED).
117 Lin, M., Chen, Q., and Yan, S. (2014) Network in Network, in 2nd Interna-
tional Conference on Learning Representations, (ICLR).
118 Jia, Y., Shelhamer, E., Donahue, J., Karayev, S., Long, J., Girshick, R.B.,
Guadarrama, S., and Darrell, T. (2014) Caffe: Convolutional Architecture for
Fast Feature Embedding. CoRR, abs/1408.5093. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1408
.5093.
119 Zhang, T., Ye, S., Zhang, K., Tang, J., Wen, W., Fardad, M., and Wang, Y.
(2018) A Systematic DNN Weight Pruning Framework using Alternating
Direction Method of Multipliers. arXiv preprint arXiv:1804.03294.
120 Zhang, T., Zhang, K., Ye, S., Li, J., Tang, J., Wen, W., Fardad, M., and Wang,
Y. (2018) ADAM-ADMM: A Unified, Systematic Framework of Structured
Weight Pruning for DNNs. arXiv preprint arXiv:1807.11091.
121 Deng, J., Dong, W., Socher, R., Li, L.J., Li, K., and Fei-Fei, L. (2009) Ima-
geNet: A Large-Scale Hierarchical Image Database, in 2009 IEEE Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pp. 248–255.
122 Stathis, D., Sudarshan, C., Yang, Y., Jung, M., Jafri, S.M.A.H., Weis, C.,
Hemani, A., Lansner, A., and Wehn, N. (2019) eBrainII: A 3 kW Real-
time Custom 3D DRAM Integrated ASIC Implementation of a Biologically
Plausible Model of a Human Scale Cortex. CoRR, abs/1911.00889. URL
http://arxiv.org/abs/1911.00889.

--- Strana 294 ---
276
References
123 Lee, S., Cho, H., Son, Y.H., Ro, Y., Kim, N.S., and Ahn, J.H. (2018) Lever-
aging Power-Performance Relationship of Energy-Efficient Modern DRAM
Devices. IEEE Access, 6, 31387–31398.
124 Harris, B. and Altiparmak, N. (2020) Ultra-Low Latency SSDs’ Impact on
Overall Energy Efficiency, in 12th USENIX Workshop on Hot Topics in Storage
and File Systems (HotStorage 20).
125 Kim, Y., Kong, J., and Munir, A. (2020) CPU-Accelerator Co-Scheduling
for CNN Acceleration at the Edge. IEEE Access, 8, 211422–211433,
doi:10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3039278.
126 Gokhale, V., Zaidy, A., Chang, A.X.M., and Culurciello, E. (2017) Snowflake:
An Efficient Hardware Accelerator for Convolutional Neural Networks, in
2017 IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and Systems (ISCAS), pp. 1–4,
doi:10.1109/ISCAS.2017.8050809.
127 Jouppi, N.P., Young, C., Patil, N., Patterson, D.A., Agrawal, G., Bajwa, R.,
Bates, S., Bhatia, S., Boden, N., Borchers, A., Boyle, R., Cantin, P., Chao, C.,
Clark, C., Coriell, J., Daley, M., Dau, M., Dean, J., Gelb, B., Ghaemmaghami,
T.V., Gottipati, R., Gulland, W., Hagmann, R., Ho, C.R., Hogberg, D., Hu, J.,
Hundt, R., Hurt, D., Ibarz, J., Jaffey, A., Jaworski, A., Kaplan, A., Khaitan,
H., Koch, A., Kumar, N., Lacy, S., Laudon, J., Law, J., Le, D., Leary, C., Liu,
Z., Lucke, K., Lundin, A., MacKean, G., Maggiore, A., Mahony, M., Miller,
K., Nagarajan, R., Narayanaswami, R., Ni, R., Nix, K., Norrie, T., Omernick,
M., Penukonda, N., Phelps, A., Ross, J., Salek, A., Samadiani, E., Severn,
C., Sizikov, G., Snelham, M., Souter, J., Steinberg, D., Swing, A., Tan, M.,
Thorson, G., Tian, B., Toma, H., Tuttle, E., Vasudevan, V., Walter, R., Wang,
W., Wilcox, E., and Yoon, D.H. (2017) In-Datacenter Performance Analysis of
a Tensor Processing Unit. CoRR, abs/1704.04760. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/
1704.04760.
128 Guo, K., Zeng, S., Yu, J., Wang, Y., and Yang, H. (2019) [DL] A Survey of
FPGA-Based Neural Network Inference Accelerators. ACM Transactions on
Reconfigurable Technology and Systems, 12 (1), 1–26, doi:10.1145/3289185.
129 Lee, J., He, J., and Wang, K. (2020) FPGA-Based Neural Network Acceler-
ators for Millimeter-Wave Radio-Over-Fiber Systems. Optics Express, 28 (9),
13384–13400, doi:10.1364/OE.391050. URL http://www.osapublishing.org/oe/
abstract.cfm?URI=oe-28-9-13384.
130 Wang, T., Wang, C., Zhou, X., and Chen, H. (2019) An Overview of FPGA
Based Deep Learning Accelerators: Challenges and Opportunities, in 2019
IEEE 21st International Conference on High Performance Computing and Com-
munications; IEEE 17th International Conference on Smart City; IEEE 5th
International Conference on Data Science and Systems (HPCC/SmartCity/DSS),
pp. 1674–1681, doi:10.1109/HPCC/SmartCity/DSS.2019.00229.

--- Strana 295 ---
References
277
131 Du, Z., Fasthuber, R., Chen, T., Ienne, P., Li, L., Luo, T., Feng, X., Chen, Y.,
and Temam, O. (2015) ShiDianNao: Shifting Vision Processing Closer to
the Sensor, in 2015 ACM/IEEE 42nd Annual International Symposium on
Computer Architecture (ISCA), pp. 92–104, doi:10.1145/2749469.2750389.
132 Liu, D., Chen, T., Liu, S., Zhou, J., Zhou, S., Teman, O., Feng, X., Zhou, X.,
and Chen, Y. (2015) PuDianNao: A Polyvalent Machine Learning Accelerator.
SIGPLAN Notices, 50 (4), 369–381, doi:10.1145/2775054.2694358
133 Sharify, S., Lascorz, A.D., Mahmoud, M., Nikolic, M., Siu, K., Stuart, D.M.,
Poulos, Z., and Moshovos, A. (2019) Laconic Deep Learning Inference Accel-
eration, in Proceedings of the 46th International Symposium on Computer
Architecture, Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA,
ISCA ’19, pp. 304–317, doi:10.1145/3307650.3322255.
134 Delmas, A., Judd, P., Stuart, D.M., Poulos, Z., Mahmoud, M., Sharify, S.,
Nikolic, M., and Moshovos, A. (2018) Bit-Tactical: Exploiting Ineffectual Com-
putations in Convolutional Neural Networks: Which, Why, and How. CoRR,
abs/1803.03688. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1803.03688.
135 Ding, C., Liao, S., Wang, Y., Li, Z., Liu, N., Zhuo, Y., Wang, C., Qian, X.,
Bai, Y., Yuan, G., Ma, X., Zhang, Y., Tang, J., Qiu, Q., Lin, X., and Yuan,
B. (2017) CirCNN: Accelerating and Compressing Deep Neural Networks
Using Block-Circulant Weight Matrices, in 2017 50th Annual IEEE/ACM
International Symposium on Microarchitecture (MICRO), pp. 395–408.
136 Ankit, A., Hajj, I.E., Chalamalasetti, S.R., Ndu, G., Foltin, M., Williams, R.S.,
Faraboschi, P., Hwu, W., Strachan, J.P., Roy, K., and Milojicic, D.S. (2019)
PUMA: A Programmable Ultra-Efficient Memristor-Based Accelerator for
Machine Learning Inference. CoRR, abs/1901.10351. URL http://arxiv.org/
abs/1901.10351.
137 Shafiee, A., Nag, A., Muralimanohar, N., Balasubramonian, R., Strachan, J.P.,
Hu, M., Williams, R.S., and Srikumar, V. (2016) ISAAC: A Convolutional
Neural Network Accelerator with In-Situ Analog Arithmetic in Crossbars,
in 2016 ACM/IEEE 43rd Annual International Symposium on Computer
Architecture (ISCA), pp. 14–26, doi:10.1109/ISCA.2016.12.
138 Liu, B., Zou, D., Feng, L., Feng, S., Fu, P., and Li, J. (2019) An FPGA-Based
CNN Accelerator Integrating Depthwise Separable Convolution. MDPI Elec-
tronics, 8 (3), 1–18.
139 Bai, L., Zhao, Y., and Huang, X. (2018) A CNN Accelerator on FPGA Using
Depthwise Separable Convolution. IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems
II: Express Briefs, 65 (10), 1415–1419.
140 Huan, Y., Xu, J., Zheng, L., Tenhunen, H., and Zou, Z. (2018) A 3D Tiled
Low Power Accelerator for Convolutional Neural Network, in 2018 IEEE
International Symposium on Circuits and Systems (ISCAS), pp. 1–5.

--- Strana 296 ---
278
References
141 Jo, J., Kim, S., and Park, I. (2018) Energy-Efficient Convolution Architecture
Based on Rescheduled Dataflow. IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems I:
Regular Papers, 65 (12), 4196–4207.
142 Chang, K. and Chang, T. (2020) VWA: Hardware Efficient Vectorwise Accel-
erator for Convolutional Neural Network. IEEE Transactions on Circuits and
Systems I: Regular Papers, 67 (1), 145–154.
143 Redmon, J. (2022) Darknet: Open Source Neural Networks in C. URL
https://pjreddie.com/darknet/tiny-darknet/.
144 AVnet (2022) Zedboard. URL http://www.zedboard.org/.
145 Redmon, J. (2022) Tiny Darknet. URL https://pjreddie.com/darknet/tiny-
darknet/.
146 Meloni, P., Capotondi, A., Deriu, G., Brian, M., Conti, F., Rossi, D., Raffo,
L., and Benini, L. (2017) NEURAghe: Exploiting CPU-FPGA Synergies for
Efficient and Flexible CNN Inference Acceleration on Zynq SoCs. CoRR,
abs/1712.00994. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1712.00994.
147 Qiu, J., Wang, J., Yao, S., Guo, K., Li, B., Zhou, E., Yu, J., Tang, T., Xu,
N., Song, S., Wang, Y., and Yang, H. (2016) Going Deeper with Embedded
FPGA Platform for Convolutional Neural Network, in Proceedings of the 2016
ACM/SIGDA International Symposium on Field-Programmable Gate Arrays,
pp. 26–35.
148 Zhang, C., Li, P., Sun, G., Guan, Y., Xiao, B., and Cong, J. (2015) Opti-
mizing FPGA-Based Accelerator Design for Deep Convolutional Neural
Networks, in Proceedings of the 2015 ACM/SIGDA International Symposium
on Field-Programmable Gate Arrays, pp. 161–170.
149 Lin, Y. and Chang, T.S. (2018) Data and Hardware Efficient Design for Con-
volutional Neural Network. IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems I:
Regular Papers, 65 (5), 1642–1651.
150 NVIDIA (2022) V100. URL https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/data-center/v100/.
151 Gondimalla, A., Chesnut, N., Thottethodi, M., and Vijaykumar, T.N. (2019)
SparTen: A Sparse Tensor Accelerator for Convolutional Neural Networks,
in Proceedings of the 52nd Annual IEEE/ACM International Symposium on
Microarchitecture, Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY,
USA, MICRO ’52, pp. 151–165, doi:10.1145/3352460.3358291.
152 Qin, E., Samajdar, A., Kwon, H., Nadella, V., Srinivasan, S., Das, D., Kaul, B.,
and Krishna, T. (2020) SIGMA: A Sparse and Irregular GEMM Accelerator
with Flexible Interconnects for DNN Training, in 2020 IEEE International
Symposium on High Performance Computer Architecture (HPCA), pp. 58–70,
doi:10.1109/HPCA47549.2020.00015.
153 Zhang, Z., Wang, H., Han, S., and Dally, W.J. (2020) SpArch: Efficient
Architecture for Sparse Matrix Multiplication, in 2020 IEEE International

--- Strana 297 ---
References
279
Symposium on High Performance Computer Architecture (HPCA), pp. 261–274,
doi:10.1109/HPCA47549.2020.00030.
154 Hojabr, R., Sedaghati, A., Sharifian, A., Khonsari, A., and Shriraman, A.
(2021) SPAGHETTI: Streaming Accelerators for Highly Sparse GEMM on
FPGAs, in 2021 IEEE International Symposium on High-Performance Com-
puter Architecture (HPCA), pp. 84–96.
155 Srivastava, N., Jin, H., Liu, J., Albonesi, D., and Zhang, Z. (2020) MatRaptor:
A Sparse-Sparse Matrix Multiplication Accelerator Based on Row-Wise Prod-
uct, in 2020 53rd Annual IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microarchi-
tecture (MICRO), pp. 766–780, doi:10.1109/MICRO50266.2020.00068.
156 Zhang, G., Attaluri, N., Emer, J.S., and Sanchez, D. (2021) Gamma: Lever-
aging Gustavson’s Algorithm to Accelerate Sparse Matrix Multiplication, in
Proceedings of the 26th ACM International Conference on Architectural Support
for Programming Languages and Operating Systems, pp. 687–701.
157 Qureshi, M.A. and Munir, A. (2021) Sparse-PE: A Performance-Efficient Pro-
cessing Engine Core for Sparse Convolutional Neural Networks. IEEE Access,
9, 151458–151475, doi:10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3126708.
158 Qureshi, M.A. and Munir, A. (2021) Phantom: A High-Performance
Computational Core for Sparse Convolutional Neural Networks. CoRR,
abs/2111.05002. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2111.05002.
159 Gao, Z., Wang, L., and Wu, G. (2019) LIP: Local Importance-Based Pooling,
in 2019 IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), pp.
3354–3363, doi:10.1109/ICCV.2019.00345.
160 Xilinx (2022) Xilinx Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC ZCU106 Evaluation Kit.
URL http://www.xilinx.com/products/boards-and-kits/zcu106.html#
documentation.
161 ARM (2022) ARM Cortex-A53 MpCore Processor Technical Reference Man-
ual. URL http://infocenter.arm.com/help/topic/com.arm.doc.ddi0500d/
DDI0500D_cortex_a53_r0p2_trm.pdf.
162 Parashar, A., Rhu, M., Mukkara, A., Puglielli, A., Venkatesan, R., Khailany,
B., Emer, J., Keckler, S.W., and Dally, W.J. (2017) SCNN: An Accelerator for
Compressed-Sparse Convolutional Neural Networks, in 2017 ACM/IEEE 44th
Annual International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA), pp. 27–40,
doi:10.1145/3079856.3080254.
163 Kim, D., Ahn, J., and Yoo, S. (2017) A Novel Zero Weight/Activation-Aware
Hardware Architecture of Convolutional Neural Network, in Proceedings of
the Conference on Design, Automation & Test in Europe, pp. 1466–1471.
164 Raspberry Pi Foundation (2021) Raspberry Pi Zero. URL https://www
.raspberrypi.org/products/raspberry-pi-zero/.
165 ARM (2021) ARM1176JZF-S Technical Reference Manual. URL https://
developer.arm.com/documentation/ddi0301/h/.

--- Strana 298 ---
280
References
166 Zhong, G., Dubey, A., Tan, C., and Mitra, T. (2019) Synergy: An HW/SW
Framework for High Throughput CNNs on Embedded Heterogeneous SoC.
ACM Transactions on Embedded Computing Systems, 18 (2), 1–23.
167 Aimar, A., Mostafa, H., Calabrese, E., Rios-Navarro, A., Tapiador-Morales,
R., Lungu, I., Milde, M.B., Corradi, F., Linares-Barranco, A., Liu, S., and
Delbruck, T. (2019) NullHop: A Flexible Convolutional Neural Network
Accelerator Based on Sparse Representations of Feature Maps. IEEE Transac-
tions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems, 30 (3), 644–656.
168 Kala, S., Jose, B.R., Mathew, J., and Nalesh, S. (2019) High-Performance
CNN Accelerator on FPGA Using Unified Winograd-GEMM Architecture.
IEEE Transactions on Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI) Systems, 27 (12),
2816–2828.
169 Shen, J., Qiao, Y., Huang, Y., Wen, M., and Zhang, C. (2018) Towards a
Multi-Array Architecture for Accelerating Large-Scale Matrix Multiplication
on FPGAs, in 2018 IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and Systems
(ISCAS), pp. 1–5.
170 Altera (2021) FPGA Architecture. URL https://www.intel.com/content/dam/
www/programmable/us/en/pdfs/literature/wp/wp-01003.pdf.
171 Rabaey, J.M., Chandrakasan, A., and Nikolic, B. (2003) Digital Integrated
Circuits, Prentice Hall Press, USA, 2nd edn.
172 Xilinx (2021) Xilinx Power Estimator. URL https://www.xilinx.com/products/
technology/power/xpe.html.
173 Zhou, X., Du, Z., Guo, Q., Liu, S., Liu, C., Wang, C., Zhou, X., Li, L., Chen,
T., and Chen, Y. (2018) Cambricon-S: Addressing Irregularity in Sparse Neu-
ral Networks through a Cooperative Software/Hardware Approach, in Pro-
ceedings of the 51st Annual IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microar-
chitecture, IEEE Press, MICRO-51, pp. 15–28, doi:10.1109/MICRO.2018.00011.
174 Gupta, S., Agrawal, A., Gopalakrishnan, K., and Narayanan, P. (2015) Deep
Learning with Limited Numerical Precision. CoRR, abs/1502.02551. URL
http://arxiv.org/abs/1502.02551.
175 Srivastava, N., Jin, H., Smith, S., Rong, H., Albonesi, D., and Zhang, Z. (2020)
Tensaurus: A Versatile Accelerator for Mixed Sparse-Dense Tensor Computa-
tions, in 2020 IEEE International Symposium on High Performance Computer
Architecture (HPCA), pp. 689–702, doi:10.1109/HPCA47549.2020.00062.
176 Hegde, K., Asghari-Moghaddam, H., Pellauer, M., Crago, N., Jaleel, A.,
Solomonik, E., Emer, J., and Fletcher, C.W. (2019) ExTensor: An Accel-
erator for Sparse Tensor Algebra, in Proceedings of the 52nd Annual
IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microarchitecture, Association

--- Strana 299 ---
References
281
for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, MICRO ’52, pp. 319–333,
doi:10.1145/3352460.3358275.
177 Pal, S., Beaumont, J., Park, D.H., Amarnath, A., Feng, S., Chakrabarti, C.,
Kim, H.S., Blaauw, D., Mudge, T., and Dreslinski, R. (2018) OuterSPACE: An
Outer Product Based Sparse Matrix Multiplication Accelerator, in 2018 IEEE
International Symposium on High Performance Computer Architecture (HPCA),
pp. 724–736, doi:10.1109/HPCA.2018.00067.
178 Szegedy, C., Vanhoucke, V., Ioffe, S., Shlens, J., and Wojna, Z. (2015) Rethink-
ing the Inception Architecture for Computer Vision. CoRR, abs/1512.00567.
URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1512.00567.
179 Ardakani, A., Condo, C., and Gross, W.J. (2020) Fast and Efficient Convolu-
tional Accelerator for Edge Computing. IEEE Transactions on Computers, 69
(1), 138–152, doi:10.1109/TC.2019.2941875.
180 Zhu, C., Huang, K., Yang, S., Zhu, Z., Zhang, H., and Shen, H. (2020)
An Efficient Hardware Accelerator for Structured Sparse Convolutional
Neural Networks on FPGAs. IEEE Transactions on Very Large Scale
Integration (VLSI) Systems, 28 (9), 1953–1965, doi:10.1109/TVLSI.2020.
3002779.
181 Xie, X., Lin, J., Wang, Z., and Wei, J. (2021) An Efficient and Flexible
Accelerator Design for Sparse Convolutional Neural Networks. IEEE
Transactions on Circuits and Systems I: Regular Papers, 68 (7), 2936–2949,
doi:10.1109/TCSI.2021.3074300.
182 Lu, L., Xie, J., Huang, R., Zhang, J., Lin, W., and Liang, Y. (2019) An
Efficient Hardware Accelerator for Sparse Convolutional Neural Net-
works on FPGAs, in 2019 IEEE 27th Annual International Symposium
on Field-Programmable Custom Computing Machines (FCCM), pp. 17–25,
doi:10.1109/FCCM.2019.00013.
183 Alwani, M., Chen, H., Ferdman, M., and Milder, P. (2016) Fused-Layer
CNN Accelerators, in 2016 49th Annual IEEE/ACM International Sympo-
sium on Microarchitecture (MICRO), pp. 1–12, doi:10.1109/MICRO.2016.
7783725.
184 Cadence Design Systems, Inc. (2019) What is Hardware Software
Co-Design and How Can it Benefit You or Your Business? URL
https://resources.pcb.cadence.com/blog/2019-what-is-hardware-software-co-
design-and-how-can-it-ben efit-you-or-your-business.
185 Darwish, T. and Bayoumi, M. (2005) Trends in Low-Power VLSI Design,
in The Electrical Engineering Handbook (ed. W.K. Chen), Academic Press,
pp. 263–280.

--- Strana 300 ---
282
References
186 Wu, Q., Ding, G., Xu, Y., Feng, S., Du, Z., Wang, J., and Long, K. (2014) Cog-
nitive Internet of Things: A New Paradigm Beyond Connection. IEEE Internet
of Things Journal, 1 (2), 129–143.
187 Sugimoto, N., Mitsuishi, T., Kaneda, T., Tsuruta, C., Sakai, R., Shimura,
H., and Amano, H. (2015) Trax Solver on Zynq with Deep Q-Network, in
2015 International Conference on Field Programmable Technology (FPT), pp.
272–275.
188 Lee, K., Kong, J., and Munir, A. (2020) HW/SW Co-Design of Cost-Efficient
CNN Inference for Cognitive IoT, in Proceedings of IEEE International Confer-
ence on Intelligent Computing in Data Sciences (ICDS).
189 Vanishree, K., George, A., Gunisetty, S., Subramanian, S., Kashyap R., S., and
Purnaprajna, M. (2020) CoIn: Accelerated CNN Co-Inference Through Data
Partitioning on Heterogeneous Devices, in 2020 6th International Conference
on Advanced Computing and Communication Systems (ICACCS), pp. 90–95.
190 Zhu, J., Wang, L., Liu, H., Tian, S., Deng, Q., and Li, J. (2020) An Efficient
Task Assignment Framework to Accelerate DPU-Based Convolutional Neural
Network Inference on FPGAs. IEEE Access, 8, 83224–83237.
191 Kim, Y., Kim, J., Chae, D., Kim, D., and Kim, J. (2019) uLayer: Low Latency
On-Device Inference Using Cooperative Single-Layer Acceleration and
Processor-Friendly Quantization, in Proceedings of the 14th EuroSys Con-
ference 2019, EuroSys ’19, pp. 1–15.
192 McCalpin, J.D. (1995) Memory Bandwidth and Machine Balance in High Per-
formance Computers, pp. 19–25.
193 Guo, K., Sui, L., Qiu, J., Yu, J., Wang, J., Yao, S., Han, S., Wang, Y., and
Yang, H. (2018) Angel-Eye: A Complete Design Flow for Mapping CNN Onto
Embedded FPGA. IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Integrated
Circuits and Systems, 37 (1), 35–47.
194 Li, Y., Ma, S., Guo, Y., Xu, R., and Chen, G. (2018) Configurable CNN Accel-
erator Based on Tiling Dataflow, in 2018 IEEE 9th International Conference
on Software Engineering and Service Science (ICSESS), pp. 309–313.
195 Zhao, Y., Chen, X., Wang, Y., Li, C., You, H., Fu, Y., Xie, Y., Wang, Z., and
Lin, Y. (2020) SmartExchange: Trading Higher-Cost Memory Storage/Access
for Lower-Cost Computation, in 47th International Symposium on Computer
Architecture.
196 Xilinx (2022) Linaro Ultra96 Evaluation Board. URL https://www.96boards
.org/product/ultra96/.
197 Xilinx (2022) ZCU104 Evaluation Board. URL https://www.xilinx.com/
products/boards-and-kits/zcu104.html.
198 ADPower (2022) HPM-300A Digital Power Meter and Analyzer. URL
http://adpower21.com/.

--- Strana 301 ---
References
283
199 Qiao, X., Cao, X., Yang, H., Song, L., and Li, H. (2018) AtomLayer: A Uni-
versal ReRAM-Based CNN Accelerator with Atomic Layer Computation, in
2018 55th ACM/ESDA/IEEE Design Automation Conference (DAC), pp. 1–6,
doi:10.1109/DAC.2018.8465832.
200 Ishida, K., Byun, I., Nagaoka, I., Fukumitsu, K., Tanaka, M., Kawakami, S.,
Tanimoto, T., Ono, T., Kim, J., and Inoue, K. (2020) SuperNPU: An Extremely
Fast Neural Processing Unit Using Superconducting Logic Devices, in 2020
53rd Annual IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microarchitecture
(MICRO), pp. 58–72, doi:10.1109/MICRO50266.2020.00018.

--- Strana 302 ---

--- Strana 303 ---
285
Index
a
Accumulation
170
Accuracy
7, 9, 59
top-1
7, 75
top-5
7, 75
Activation function
13, 15, 23, 151
ReLU
23
Sigmoid
23
Softmax
23
Activation sparsity
180
Activations
9
Affine transformations
20
AlexNet
26, 74, 75, 77, 78, 186, 207
Application-specific integrated
circuits
34, 74, 101, 123
Application-specific integrated system
224
Arithmetic coding
45, 59, 63, 76, 82
Artificial intelligence
3, 13, 186, 261
Autonomous driving
4, 5, 186
b
Backpropagation
23
Batch size
25
Biases
21
Binary cross-entropy loss
24
Binary mapping
63
Binary mask
157, 188
Binary neural networks
29
Bitmap-based lossless compression
47
Bitstream
63, 66, 67, 71, 78
Block circulant matrices
92, 189
c
Cache flush
245
Cache-coherent interconnect
246
CaffeNet
74, 75, 77, 78
Categorical cross-entropy loss
24
CIFAR
30
Classification accuracy
7
Classification loss function
24
Classification neural networks
24
CNNs
3, 13, 15, 17
Coherence latency
245
Comparator
73
Compound coefficient
29
Compressed sparse column
10, 133,
261
Compressed sparse row
10, 48, 53, 54,
128
Compression
52, 187
Compression ratio
41, 75–77, 82
Compressive coding
41, 259, 260
Computation gating
10
Computation latency
244
Compute
6
cost
7, 151
Compute engine
192, 197
Computer vision
3, 259
Convolution
6, 15, 17, 109, 156, 173
depthwise separable
9, 111, 204
pointwise
9, 204
Convolutional neural networks
3, 13,
15, 259
hyperparameters
21, 22
parameters
21
Accelerators for Convolutional Neural Networks, First Edition.
Arslan Munir, Joonho Kong, and Mahmood Azhar Qureshi.
© 2024 The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Published 2024 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

--- Strana 304 ---
286
Index
Coordinate format
133
Cost
118, 147
Cost efficiency
59, 95, 227
Cyber-physical systems
225
Cycle-accurate simulator
175, 210
d
Darknet
99, 247
Data compression
43, 59
Data transfer energy
78
Data transfer overhead
51, 96
Dataflows
10, 34, 91, 101, 102, 109, 111,
153, 184, 203
Dataset augmentation
17
Datasets
17
CIFAR
30
ImageNet
7, 18, 31
MNIST
30
Decoder
72, 73, 81
Decoding
63
Decoding latency
74, 78, 82
Decoding unit
63, 72, 80, 81, 83
Deep learning
13
Deep neural networks
3, 13
Dense CNN accelerators
87, 260
Digital signal processing
92
Digital signal processors
147, 224
Direct memory access
51, 55, 96, 135,
143, 234, 248
DNNs
3, 13
Domain-specific architectures
223
Drop-out probability
22
Dynamic energy
78
Dynamic power
146
e
Edge
4
Edge computing
31
Edge devices
4, 7, 31, 60, 242, 259
EfficientNet
29
Embedded platforms
4
Energy
6, 149, 180
cost
7, 151
Energy consumption
51, 56, 75, 78, 80,
146, 254
Energy cost
8
Energy efficiency
96, 97
Energy overhead
51
Entropy-based coding
44
Epochs
25
f
Fast Fourier transform
33, 92
Feature maps
9, 186, 187
Field-programmable gate arrays
34,
101, 123
Filters
15, 87, 136, 139, 173
Flatten layer
16
Forward pass
17
Forward propagation
23
Fully connected layers
15, 20, 77, 216,
262
g
GoogleNet
27, 74
Graphics processing units
226
h
Hardware accelerators
51, 57, 102,
135
Hardware decoder
60, 77
Hardware utilization
119, 152, 170,
177
Hidden layers
13, 15, 22
Homomorphic encryption
264
Huffman coding
44, 59, 76
HW/SW co-design
97, 135, 223, 224,
262
HW/SW co-scheduling
223, 228, 242,
262
Hybrid memory cube
36
Hyperparameter tuning
25
Hyperparameters
21–23
tuning
25
i
ImageNet
7, 18, 31
In-memory accelerators
92
In-order selection
194
Inference
3, 13, 59, 97
Inference latency
82
Information entropy
43

--- Strana 305 ---
Index
287
Inner-product
129, 131, 155, 190
Input feature maps
16, 17, 20, 52, 54,
57, 74, 87, 96, 106, 135, 143, 144,
261
Input stationary dataflow
91
Inter-core balancing
204
Internet of things
51, 95, 99, 146, 223,
225
Intracore balancing
207, 208
l
Latency
51, 246
Latency hiding
80
Latency overhead
51, 77, 78, 80, 81
Layer
13
Learning rate
23, 24
LeNet
30, 185
Linear quantizer
103
Linear regression
245
Load balancing
133, 203, 212, 229
Load imbalance
156, 203
Log loss
24
Log Quantization
141
Log quantizer
104
Look ahead
10
Lookahead factor
159, 178
Lookahead mask
192
Lookup tables
101, 123, 147
Loss function
23
Lossless compression
42, 44, 59, 76
Lossy compression
41, 43
m
Medical AI
6
Memory bandwidth
51
MNIST
30
MobileNets
30, 179, 207, 214
Model parameters
21
Model size
7–9
Momentum
25
Multi-layer perceptrons
15, 225
Multi-threaded
190, 197, 260, 262
Multicore
223
Multiply-Accumulate
7, 89, 97, 101,
231
n
Near-memory processing
36
Network-in-Network
74
Neural machine translation
5
Neural network accelerators
7, 186
Neural networks
5
applications
5
Neural processing engine
31
Neural processing unit
60, 263
Nonlinearity
187
Non-systolic array
102
o
Optimization
224
Out-of-order selection
195
Outer-product
130, 131, 155, 190
Output feature maps
74, 88, 248
Output stationary dataflow
35, 91
Over-fitting
17, 22
p
Parallelism
96, 142
Parameters
21
Partial sums
186
Performance
98, 144, 149, 174–176,
242, 253
Pipelining
77, 231, 234
Pooling
19
Pooling layers
19
Power consumption
123
Precision
9
Privacy
95, 264
Private local memory
61
Processing element
10, 89, 98, 101, 105,
242, 260
Processing-in-memory
37, 51
Pruning
9, 76, 80, 239
structured
10
unstructured
9
q
Quantization
9, 43, 44, 59, 74–76, 189,
239
r
Range scaling
63
Real-time applications
259

--- Strana 306 ---
288
Index
Receptive field
15, 17
Rectified linear unit (ReLU)
9, 13,
45, 52, 127, 139, 151, 152, 187,
241
Recurrent neural networks
185, 225
Regression loss function
24
Regression neural networks
24
Resistive random-access memory
263
ResNet
75
Resource utilization
119
Response time
96, 97
Roofline model
229
Row stationary dataflow
92
Row-wise product matrix multiplication
131, 133
Run-length coding
44, 45
s
Scheduling
169
Security
4, 95, 186, 264
Separable convolutions
187
Single instruction multiple data
91, 95,
143, 144
Single-flux quantum logic
263
Sparse architectures
155, 189
Sparse binary mask
158, 172, 181, 191
Sparse CNN accelerators
127, 128, 261
Sparse feature maps
152
Sparse matrix multiplication
129, 130
Sparsity
9, 56, 59, 153
activation sparsity
127, 190
one-sided sparsity
9, 152
two-sided sparsity
9, 10, 152, 159,
190, 261, 262
weight sparsity
127, 190
Spatial architecture
34
Speech processing
5
Speedup
141, 177, 180, 215, 217
SqueezeNet
27, 74, 104, 143
Static power
77, 146
Stochastic gradient descent
24
System-on-chip
102, 228
Systolic arrays
89, 91, 129
t
Task partitioning
230
Temporal architecture
32
Tensor processing unit
31, 93
Thread mapper
192, 196
Throughput
120, 188
Tiny Darknet
99, 257
Toeplitz matrix
88
Toeplitz transformation
33
Top-1 accuracy
7
Top-5 accuracy
7
Top-down selector
192, 193
Training
3, 13
Transfer latency
55, 80, 244
u
Underfitting
22
Underflow
63
Underutilization
229
Utilization
51, 177, 181, 193, 242
BRAM block utilization
142
hardware utilization
177, 182, 196,
228
SRAM utilization
218
thread utilization
178, 188, 209, 214
v
VGG16
104, 178, 207, 214
VGGNet
26
w
Weight compression
59, 60, 80
Weight decoding
60, 67, 71, 74, 80
Weight decompression
60, 67, 77
Weight encoding
60, 69
Weight pruning
43, 59
Weight quantization
60
Weight stationary dataflow
34, 91
Weights
9, 13, 21

--- Strana 307 ---
WILEY END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT
Go to www.wiley.com/go/eula to access Wiley’s ebook EULA.
