
--- Strana 1 ---
[ 1 ]
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 2 ---
Hands-On Deep Learning with 
TensorFlow
Uncover what is underneath your data!
Dan Van Boxel
 
BIRMINGHAM - MUMBAI
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 3 ---
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow
Copyright © 2017 Packt Publishing
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, stored 
in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, 
without the prior written permission of the publisher, except in the 
case of brief quotations embedded in critical articles or reviews.
Every effort has been made in the preparation of this book to ensure 
the accuracy of the information presented. However, the information 
contained in this book is sold without warranty, either express or 
implied. Neither the author, nor Packt Publishing, and its dealers and 
distributors will be held liable for any damages caused or alleged to 
be caused directly or indirectly by this book.
Packt Publishing has endeavored to provide trademark information 
about all of the companies and products mentioned in this book by 
the appropriate use of capitals. However, Packt Publishing cannot 
guarantee the accuracy of this information.
First published: July 2017
Production reference: 1280717
Published by Packt Publishing Ltd.
Livery Place
35 Livery Street
Birmingham B3 2PB, UK.
ISBN 978-1-78728-277-3
www.packtpub.com
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 4 ---
Credits
Author
Dan Van Boxel
Commissioning Editor
Ben Renow-Clarke
Acquisition Editor
Ben Renow-Clarke
Content Development Editor
Radhika Atitkar
Technical Editor
Bhagyashree Rai
Copy Editor
Tom Jacob
Project Coordinator
Suzanne Coutinho
Proofreader
Safis Editing
Indexer
Tejal Daruwale Soni
Graphics
Kirk D'Penha
Production Coordinator
Arvindkumar Gupta
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 5 ---
About the Author
Dan Van Boxel is a data scientist and machine learning engineer with 
over 10 years of experience. He is most well-known for Dan Does Data, 
a YouTube livestream demonstrating the power and pitfalls of neural 
networks. He has developed and applied novel statistical models 
of machine learning to topics such as accounting for truck traffic on 
highways, travel time outlier detection, and other areas. Dan has also 
published research articles and presented findings at the Transportation 
Research Board and other academic journals.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 6 ---
www.PacktPub.com
eBooks, discount offers, and more
Did you know that Packt offers eBook versions of every book published, 
with PDF and ePub files available? You can upgrade to the eBook  
version at www.PacktPub.com and as a print book customer, you are 
entitled to a discount on the eBook copy. Get in touch with us at 
customercare@packtpub.com for more details.
At www.PacktPub.com, you can also read a collection of free technical 
articles, sign up for a range of free newsletters and receive exclusive 
discounts and offers on Packt books and eBooks.
https://www.packtpub.com/mapt
Get the most in-demand software skills with Mapt. Mapt gives you full 
access to all Packt books and video courses, as well as industry-leading 
tools to help you plan your personal development and advance your career.
Why subscribe?
•	 Fully searchable across every book published by Packt
•	 Copy and paste, print, and bookmark content
•	 On demand and accessible via a web browser
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 7 ---
Customer Feedback
Thanks for purchasing this Packt book. At Packt, quality is at the heart 
of our editorial process. To help us improve, please leave us an honest 
review on this book's Amazon page at https://www.amazon.com/
dp/1787282775.
If you'd like to join our team of regular reviewers, you can email us at 
customerreviews@packtpub.com. We award our regular reviewers with free 
eBooks and videos in exchange for their valuable feedback. Help us be 
relentless in improving our products!
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 8 ---
[ i ]
Table of Contents
Preface	
v
Chapter 1: Getting Started	
1
Installing TensorFlow	
1
TensorFlow – main page	
2
TensorFlow – the installation page	
2
Installing via pip	
3
Installing via CoCalc	
6
Simple computations	
10
Defining scalars and tensors	
10
Computations on tensors	
11
Doing computation	
12
Variable tensors	
13
Viewing and substituting intermediate values	
15
Logistic regression model building	
16
Introducing the font classification dataset	
17
Logistic regression	
21
Getting data ready	
22
Building a TensorFlow model	
23
Logistic regression training	
25
Developing the loss function	
25
Training the model	
26
Evaluating the model accuracy	
28
Summary	
32
Chapter 2: Deep Neural Networks	
33
Basic neural networks	
34
Log function	
35
Sigmoid function	
36
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 9 ---
Table of Contents
[ ii ]
Single hidden layer model	
39
Exploring the single hidden layer model	
40
Backpropagation	
42
Single hidden layer explained	
45
Understanding weights of the model	
48
The multiple hidden layer model	
50
Exploring the multiple hidden layer model	
51
Results of the multiple hidden layer	
56
Understanding the multiple hidden layers graph	
56
Summary	
62
Chapter 3: Convolutional Neural Networks	
63
Convolutional layer motivation	
64
Multiple features extracted	
68
Convolutional layer application	
70
Exploring the convolution layer	
70
Pooling layer motivation	
78
Max pooling layers	
78
Pooling layer application	
83
Deep CNN	
86
Adding convolutional and pooling layer combo	
86
CNN to classify our fonts	
88
Deeper CNN	
94
Adding a layer to another layer of CNN	
94
Wrapping up deep CNN	
99
Summary	
105
Chapter 4: Introducing Recurrent Neural Networks	
107
Exploring RNNs	
108
Modeling the weights	
109
Understanding RNNs	
111
TensorFlow learn	
117
Setup	
117
Logistic regression	
120
DNNs	
122
Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) in Learn	
123
Extracting weights	
129
Summary	
131
Chapter 5: Wrapping Up	
133
Research evaluation	
134
A quick review of all the models	
136
The logistic regression model	
137
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 10 ---
Table of Contents
[ iii ]
The single hidden layer neural network model	
138
Deep neural network	
140
Convolutional neural network	
142
Deep convolutional neural network	
145
The future of TensorFlow	
147
Some more TensorFlow projects	
149
Summary	
152
Index	
153
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 11 ---
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 12 ---
[ v ]
Preface
TensorFlow is an open source software library for machine learning 
and training neural networks. TensorFlow was originally developed 
by Google, and was made open source in 2015. 
Over the course of this book, you will learn how to use TensorFlow 
to solve a novel research problem. You'll use one of the most popular 
machine learning approaches, neural networks with TensorFlow. 
We'll work on both the simple and deep neural networks to improve 
our models.
You'll study images of letters and digits in various fonts with the goal 
of identifying fonts based on one specific image of a single letter. This 
will be a straightforward classification problem.
As no single pixel or position—but local structures among pixels—is 
important, it's an ideal problem for deep learning with TensorFlow. 
Though we'll start with simple models, this series will gradually 
introduce more nuanced approaches and explain the code line by line. 
By the end of this book, you'll have created your own advanced model 
for font recognition.
So let's put on our helmets; we're going deep into data mines with 
TensorFlow.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 13 ---
Preface
[ vi ]
What this book covers
Chapter 1, Getting Started, discusses the techniques and the models 
we'll apply using TensorFlow. In this chapter, we will install 
TensorFlow on a machine we can use. After some small steps with 
basic computations, we will jump into a machine learning problem, 
successfully building a decent model with just logistic regression and 
a few lines of TensorFlow code.
Chapter 2, Deep Neural Networks, shows TensorFlow in its prime with 
deep neural networks. You will learn about the single and multiple 
hidden layer model. You will also learn about the different types of 
neural networks and build and train our first neural network with 
TensorFlow.
Chapter 3, Convolutional Neural Networks, talks about the most 
powerful developments in deep learning and applies the concepts of 
convolution to a simple example in TensorFlow. We will tackle the 
practical aspects of understanding convolution. We will explain what 
a convolutional and pooling layer is in a neural net, following with a 
TensorFlow example.
Chapter 4, Introducing Recurrent Neural Networks, introduces the concept 
of RNN models, and their implementation in TensorFlow. We will 
look at a simple interface to TensorFlow called TensorFlow learn. We 
will also walk through dense neural networks as well as understand 
convolutional neural networks and extracting weights in detail.
Chapter 5, Wrapping Up, wraps up our look at TensorFlow. We'll  
revisit our TensorFlow models for font classification, and review  
their accuracy.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 14 ---
Preface
[ vii ]
What you need for this book
While this book will show you how to install TensorFlow, there are a 
few dependencies you need to be aware of. At a minimum, you need a 
recent version of Python 2 or 3 and NumPy. To get the most out of the 
book, you should also have Matplotlib and IPython.
Who this book is for
With deep learning going mainstream, making sense of data and 
getting accurate results using deep networks is possible. Dan Van 
Boxel is your guide to exploring the possibilities with deep learning; 
he will enable you to understand data like never before. With the 
efficiency and simplicity of TensorFlow, you will be able to process 
your data and gain insights that will change how you look at data.
Conventions
In this book, you will find a number of styles of text that distinguish 
between different kinds of information. Here are some examples of 
these styles, and an explanation of their meaning.
Code words in text, database table names, folder names, filenames, 
file extensions, pathnames, dummy URLs, user input, and Twitter 
handles are shown as follows: "The first thing you need to do  
is download the source code pack for this book and open the  
simple.py file."
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 15 ---
Preface
[ viii ]
A block of code is set as follows:
import tensorflow as tf
# You can create constants in TF to hold specific values
a = tf.constant(1)
b = tf.constant(2)
When we wish to draw your attention to a particular part of a code 
block, the relevant lines or items are set in bold:
import tensorflow as tf
# You can create constants in TF to hold specific values
a = tf.constant(1)
b = tf.constant(2)
Any command-line input or output is written as follows:
sudo pip3 install ./tensorflow-1.2.1-cp35-cp35m-linux_x86_64.
whl
New terms and important words are shown in bold. Words that you 
see on the screen, in menus or dialog boxes for example, appear in the 
text like this: "Click on +New to create a new file. Here we'll create a 
Jupyter notebook".
Warnings or important notes appear in a box 
like this.
Tips and tricks appear like this.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 16 ---
Preface
[ ix ]
Reader feedback
Feedback from our readers is always welcome. Let us know what you 
think about this book—what you liked or may have disliked. Reader 
feedback is important for us to develop titles that you really get the 
most out of.
To send us general feedback, simply send an email to feedback@
packtpub.com, and mention the book title via the subject of your 
message.
If there is a topic that you have expertise in and you are interested  
in either writing or contributing to a book, see our author guide on 
www.packtpub.com/authors.
Customer support
Now that you are the proud owner of a Packt book, we have a number 
of things to help you to get the most from your purchase.
Downloading the example code
You can download the example code files for this book from your 
account at http://www.packtpub.com. If you purchased this book 
elsewhere, you can visit http://www.packtpub.com/support and 
register to have the files e-mailed directly to you.
You can download the code files by following these steps:
1. Log in or register to our website using your e-mail address and 
password.
2. Hover the mouse pointer on the SUPPORT tab at the top.
3. Click on Code Downloads & Errata.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 17 ---
Preface
[ x ]
4. Enter the name of the book in the Search box.
5. Select the book for which you're looking to download the  
code files.
6. Choose from the drop-down menu where you purchased this 
book from.
7. Click on Code Download.
You can also download the code files by clicking on the Code Files 
button on the book's webpage at the Packt Publishing website. This 
page can be accessed by entering the book's name in the Search box. 
Please note that you need to be logged in to your Packt account.
Once the file is downloaded, please make sure that you unzip or 
extract the folder using the latest version of:
• WinRAR / 7-Zip for Windows
• Zipeg / iZip / UnRarX for Mac
• 7-Zip / PeaZip for Linux
The code bundle for the book is also hosted on GitHub at https://
github.com/PacktPublishing/Hands-On-Deep-Learning-with-
TensorFlow. We also have other code bundles from our rich catalog of 
books and videos available at https://github.com/PacktPublishing/. 
Check them out!
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 18 ---
Preface
[ xi ]
Downloading the color images 
of this book
We also provide you with a PDF file that has color images of the 
screenshots/diagrams used in this book. The color images will help 
you better understand the changes in the output. You can download 
this file from https://www.packtpub.com/sites/default/files/
HandsOnDeepLearningwithTensorFlow.pdf.
Errata
Although we have taken every care to ensure the accuracy of our 
content, mistakes do happen. If you find a mistake in one of our 
books—maybe a mistake in the text or the code—we would be 
grateful if you could report this to us. By doing so, you can save other 
readers from frustration and help us improve subsequent versions 
of this book. If you find any errata, please report them by visiting 
http://www.packtpub.com/submit-errata, selecting your book, 
clicking on the Errata Submission Form link, and entering the details 
of your errata. Once your errata are verified, your submission will be 
accepted and the errata will be uploaded to our website or added to 
any list of existing errata under the Errata section of that title.
To view the previously submitted errata, go to https://www.
packtpub.com/books/content/support and enter the name of the book 
in the search field. The required information will appear under the 
Errata section.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 19 ---
Preface
[ xii ]
Piracy
Piracy of copyrighted material on the Internet is an ongoing problem 
across all media. At Packt, we take the protection of our copyright 
and licenses very seriously. If you come across any illegal copies of 
our works in any form on the Internet, please provide us with the 
location address or website name immediately so that we can pursue 
a remedy.
Please contact us at copyright@packtpub.com with a link to the 
suspected pirated material.
We appreciate your help in protecting our authors and our ability to 
bring you valuable content.
Questions
If you have a problem with any aspect of this book, you can contact 
us at questions@packtpub.com, and we will do our best to address the 
problem.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 20 ---
[ 1 ]
Getting Started
TensorFlow is a new machine learning and graph computation library 
recently released by Google. Its Python interface ensures the elegant 
design of common models, while its compiled backend ensures speed.
Let's take a glimpse at the techniques you'll learn and the models 
you'll build as you apply TensorFlow.
Installing TensorFlow
In this section, you will learn what TensorFlow is, how to install 
it, and how to build simple models and do simple computations. 
Further, you will learn how to build a logistic regression model for 
classification, and introduce a machine learning problem to help us 
learn TensorFlow.
We're going to learn what kind of library TensorFlow is and install it 
on our own Linux machine, or a free instance of CoCalc if you don't 
have access to a Linux machine.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 21 ---
Getting Started
[ 2 ]
TensorFlow – main page
First, what is TensorFlow? TensorFlow is a new machine learning 
library put out by Google. It is designed to be very easy to use and is 
very fast. If you go to the TensorFlow website, tensorflow.org, you 
will have access to a wealth of information about what TensorFlow 
is and how to use it. We'll be referring to this often, particularly the 
documentation.
TensorFlow – the installation page
Before we get started with TensorFlow, note that you need to install 
it, as it probably doesn't come preinstalled on your operating system. 
So, if you go to the Install tab on the TensorFlow web page, click on 
Installing TensorFlow on Ubuntu, and then click on "native" pip, 
you will learn how to install TensorFlow.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 22 ---
Chapter 1
[ 3 ]
Installing TensorFlow is very challenging, even for experienced 
system administrators. So, I highly recommend using something like 
the pip installation; alternatively, if you're familiar with Docker, use 
the Docker installation. You can install TensorFlow from the source, 
but this can be very difficult. We will install TensorFlow using a 
precompiled binary called a wheel file. You can install this file using 
Python's pip module installer.
Installing via pip
For the pip installation, you have the option of using either a Python 
2 or Python 3 version. Also, you can choose between the CPU and 
GPU version. If your computer has a powerful graphics card, the GPU 
version may be for you.
However, you need to check that your graphics card is compatible 
with TensorFlow. If it's not, it's fine; everything in this series can be 
done with just the CPU version.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 23 ---
Getting Started
[ 4 ]
We can install TensorFlow by using the pip 
install tensorflow command (based on your 
CPU or GPU support and pip version), as shown in 
the preceding screenshot.
So, if you copy the following line for TensorFlow, you can install it as 
well:
# Python 3.4 installation
sudo pip3 install --upgrade \
https://storage.googleapis.com/tensorflow/linux/cpu/
tensorflow-1.2.1-cp34-cp34m-linux_x86_64.whl
If you don't have Python 3.4, as the wheel file called for, that's okay. 
You can probably still use the same wheel file. Let's take a look at how 
to do this for Python 3.5. First, you just need to download the wheel 
file directly, by either putting the following URL in your browser or 
using a command-line program, such as wget, as we're doing here:
wget  https://storage.googleapis.com/tensorflow/linux/cpu/
tensorflow-1.2.1-cp34-cp34m-linux_x86_64.whl
If you download this, it will very quickly be grabbed by your 
computer.
Now all you need to do is change the name of the file from cp34, 
which stands for Python 3.4, to whichever version of Python 3 you're 
using. In this case, we'll change it to a version using Python 3.5, so 
we'll change 4 to 5:
mv tensorflow-1.2.1-cp34-cp34m-linux_x86_64.whl tensorflow-
1.2.1-cp35-cp35m-linux_x86_64.whl
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 24 ---
Chapter 1
[ 5 ]
Now you can install TensorFlow for Python 3.5 by simply changing 
the installation line here to pip3 install and the name of the new 
wheel file after changing it to 3.5:
sudo pip3 install ./tensorflow-1.2.1-cp35-cp35m-linux_x86_64.
whl
We can see this works just fine. Now you've installed TensorFlow.
If your installation somehow becomes corrupted later, you can always 
jump back to this segment to remind yourself about the steps involved 
in the installation.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 25 ---
Getting Started
[ 6 ]
Installing via CoCalc
If you don't have administrative or installation rights on your 
computer but still want to try TensorFlow, you can try running 
TensorFlow over the web in a CoCalc instance. If you go to https://
cocalc.com/ and create a new account, you can create a new project. 
This will give you a sort of a virtual machine that you can play around 
with. Conveniently, TensorFlow is already installed in the Anaconda 3 
kernel.
Let's create a new project called TensorFlow. Click on +Create new 
project…, enter a title for your project, and click on Create Project. 
Now we can go into our project by clicking on the title. It will take a 
couple of seconds to load.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 26 ---
Chapter 1
[ 7 ]
Click on +New to create a new file. Here, we'll create a Jupyter 
notebook:
Jupyter is a convenient way to interact with IPython and the primary 
means of using CoCalc for these computations. It may take a few 
seconds to load.
When you get to the interface shown in the following screenshot, the 
first thing you need to do is change the kernel to Anaconda Python 3 
by going to Kernel | Change kernel… | Python 3 (Anaconda):
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 27 ---
Getting Started
[ 8 ]
This will give you the proper dependencies to use TensorFlow. It may 
take a few seconds for the kernel to change. Once you are connected to 
the new kernel, you can type import tensorflow in the cell and go 
to Cell | Run Cells to check whether it works:
If your Jupyter notebook takes a long time to load, you can instead 
create a Terminal in CoCalc using the button shown in the following 
screenshot:
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 28 ---
Chapter 1
[ 9 ]
Once there, type anaconda3 to switch environments, then type 
ipython3 to launch an interactive Python session, as shown in the 
following screenshot:
You can easily work here, although you won't be able to visualize the 
output. Type import tensorflow in the Terminal and off you go.
So far in this section, you've learned what TensorFlow is and how to 
install it, either locally or on a virtual machine on the web. Now we're 
ready to explore simple computations in TensorFlow.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 29 ---
Getting Started
[ 10 ]
Simple computations
First, we're going to take a look at the tensor object type. Then 
we'll have a graphical understanding of TensorFlow to define 
computations. Finally, we'll run the graphs with sessions, showing 
how to substitute intermediate values.
Defining scalars and tensors
The first thing you need to do is download the source code pack for 
this book and open the simple.py file. You can either use this file 
to copy and paste lines into TensorFlow or CoCalc, or type them 
directly yourselves. First, let's import tensorflow as tf. This is a 
convenient way to refer to it in Python. You'll want to hold your 
constant numbers in tf.constant calls. For example, let's do a = 
tf.constant(1) and b = tf.constant(2):
import tensorflow as tf
# You can create constants in TF to hold specific values
a = tf.constant(1)
b = tf.constant(2)
Of course, you can add and multiply these to get other values, namely 
c and d:
# Of course you can add, multiply, and compute on these as 
you like
c = a + b
d = a * b
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 30 ---
Chapter 1
[ 11 ]
TensorFlow numbers are stored in tensors, a fancy term for 
multidimensional arrays. If you pass a Python list to TensorFlow, it 
does the right thing and converts it into an appropriately dimensioned 
tensor. You can see this illustrated in the following code:
# TF numbers are stored in "tensors", a fancy term for 
multidimensional arrays. If you pass TF a Python list, it 
can convert it
V1 = tf.constant([1., 2.])   # Vector, 1-dimensional
V2 = tf.constant([3., 4.])   # Vector, 1-dimensional
M = tf.constant([[1., 2.]])             # Matrix, 2d
N = tf.constant([[1., 2.],[3.,4.]])     # Matrix, 2d
K = tf.constant([[[1., 2.],[3.,4.]]])   # Tensor, 3d+
The V1 vector, a one-dimensional tensor, is passed as a Python list of 
[1. , 2.]. The dots here just force Python to store the number as 
decimal values rather than integers. The V2 vector is another Python 
list of [3. , 4. ]. The M variable is a two-dimensional matrix made 
from a list of lists in Python, creating a two-dimensional tensor in 
TensorFlow. The N variable is also a two-dimensional matrix. Note 
that this one actually has multiple rows in it. Finally, K is a true tensor, 
containing three dimensions. Note that the final dimension contains 
just one entry, a single two-by-two box.
Don't worry if this terminology is a bit confusing. Whenever you see 
a strange new variable, you can jump back to this point to understand 
what it might be.
Computations on tensors
You can also do simple things, such as add tensors together:
V3 = V1 + V2
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 31 ---
Getting Started
[ 12 ]
Alternatively, you can multiply them element-wise, so each common 
position is multiplied together:
# Operations are element-wise by default
M2 = M * M
For true matrix multiplication, however, you need to use tf.matmul, 
passing in your two tensors as arguments:
NN = tf.matmul(N,N)
Doing computation
Everything so far has just specified the TensorFlow graph; we haven't 
yet computed anything. To do this, we need to start a session in which 
the computations will take place. The following code creates a new 
session:
sess = tf.Session()
Once you have a session open, doing: sess.run(NN) will evaluate 
the given expression and return an array. We can easily send this to a 
variable by doing the following:
output = sess.run(NN)
print("NN is:")
print(output)
If you run this cell now, you should see the correct tensor array for the 
NN output on the screen:
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 32 ---
Chapter 1
[ 13 ]
When you're done using your session, it's good to close it, just like you 
would close a file handle:
# Remember to close your session when you're done using it
sess.close()
For interactive work, we can use tf.InteractiveSession() like so:
sess = tf.InteractiveSession()
You can then easily compute the value of any node. For example, 
entering the following code and running the cell will output the value 
of M2:
# Now we can compute any node
print("M2 is:")
print(M2.eval())
Variable tensors
Of course, not all our numbers are constant. To update weights in a 
neural network, for example, we need to use tf.Variable to create 
the appropriate object:
W = tf.Variable(0, name="weight")
Note that variables in TensorFlow are not initialized automatically. To 
do so, we need to use a special call, namely tf.global_variables_
initializer(), and then run that call with sess.run():
init_op = tf.global_variables_initializer()
sess.run(init_op)
This is to put a value in that variable. In this case, it will stuff a 0 value 
into the W variable. Let's just verify that W has that value:
print("W is:")
print(W.eval())
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 33 ---
Getting Started
[ 14 ]
You should see an output value for W of 0 in your cell:
Let's see what happens when you add a to it:
W += a
print("W after adding a:")
print(W.eval())
Recall that a is 1, so you get the expected value of 1 here:
Let's add a again, just to make sure we can increment and that it's 
truly a variable:
W += a
print("W after adding a:")
print(W.eval())
Now you should see that W is holding 2, as we have incremented it 
twice with a:
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 34 ---
Chapter 1
[ 15 ]
Viewing and substituting 
intermediate values
You can return or supply arbitrary nodes when doing a TensorFlow 
computation. Let's define a new node but also return another node 
at the same time in a fetch call. First, let's define our new node E, as 
shown here:
E = d + b # 1*2 + 2 = 4
Let's take a look at what E starts as:
print("E as defined:")
print(E.eval())
You should see that, as expected, E equals 4. Now let's see how we 
can pass in multiple nodes, E and d, to return multiple values from a 
sess.run call:
# Let's see what d was at the same time
print("E and d:")
print(sess.run([E,d]))
You should see multiple values, namely 4 and 2, returned in your 
output:
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 35 ---
Getting Started
[ 16 ]
Now suppose we want to use a different intermediate value, say for 
debugging purposes. We can use feed_dict to supply a custom value 
to a node anywhere in our computation when returning a value. Let's 
do that now with d equals 4 instead of 2:
# Use a custom d by specifying a dictionary
print("E with custom d=4:")
print(sess.run(E, feed_dict = {d:4.}))
Remember that E equals d + b and the values of d and b are both 2. 
Although we've inserted a new value of 4 for d, you should see that 
the value of E will now be output as 6:
You have now learned how to do core computations with TensorFlow 
tensors. It's time to take the next step forward by building a logistic 
regression model.
Logistic regression model 
building
Okay, let's get started with building a real machine learning model. 
First, we'll see the proposed machine learning problem: font 
classification. Then, we'll review a simple algorithm for classification, 
called logistic regression. Finally, we'll implement logistic regression 
in TensorFlow.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 36 ---
Chapter 1
[ 17 ]
Introducing the font classification 
dataset
Before we jump in, let's load all the necessary modules:
import tensorflow as tf
import numpy as np
If you're copying and pasting to IPython, make sure your autoindent 
property is set to OFF:
%autoindent
The tqdm module is optional; it just shows nice progress bars:
try:
    from tqdm import tqdm
except ImportError:
    def tqdm(x, *args, **kwargs):
        return x
Next, we'll set a seed of 0, just to get consistent data splitting from run 
to run:
# Set random seed
np.random.seed(0)
In this book, we've provided a dataset of the images of characters 
using five fonts. For convenience, these are stored in a compressed 
NumPy file (data_with_labels.npz), which can be found in the 
download package of this book. You can easily load these into Python 
with numpy.load:
# Load data
data = np.load('data_with_labels.npz')
train = data['arr_0']/255.
labels = data['arr_1']
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 37 ---
Getting Started
[ 18 ]
The train variable here holds the actual pixel values scaled from 0 
to 1, and labels holds the type of font that it was; therefore, it'll be 
either 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4, as there are five fonts in total. You can print out 
these values, so you can look at them using the following code:
# Look at some data
print(train[0])
print(labels[0])
However, that's not very instructive, as most of the values are zeroes 
and only the central part of the screen contains the image data:
If you have Matplotlib installed, now is a good place to import it. 
We'll use plt.ion() to automatically bring up figures when needed:
# If you have matplotlib installed
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
plt.ion()
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 38 ---
Chapter 1
[ 19 ]
Here are some example images of characters from each font:
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 39 ---
Getting Started
[ 20 ]
Yeah, they're pretty flashy. In the dataset, each image is represented 
as a 36 x 36 two-dimensional matrix of pixel darkness values. The 
0 value represents a white pixel, while 255 represents a black pixel. 
Everything in between is a shade of gray. Here's the code to display 
these fonts on your own machine:
# Let's look at a subplot of one of A in each font
f, plts = plt.subplots(5, sharex=True)
c = 91
for i in range(5):
    plts[i].pcolor(train[c + i * 558],
                   cmap=plt.cm.gray_r)
If your plot appears really wide, you can easily resize the window  
just using your mouse. It's often much more work to resize it ahead 
of time in Python if you're simply plotting interactively. Our goal is 
to decide which font an image belongs to, given that we have many 
other labeled images of the fonts. To expand the dataset and help 
avoid overfitting, we have also jittered each character around in the 36 
x 36 area, giving us nine times as many data points.
It may be helpful to come back to this after working with later models. 
It's important to keep the original data in mind, no matter how 
advanced the final model is.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 40 ---
Chapter 1
[ 21 ]
Logistic regression
If you're familiar with linear regression, you're halfway toward 
understanding logistic regression. Basically, we're going to assign a 
weight to each pixel in the image, then take the weighted sum of those 
pixels (beta for weights and X for pixels). This will give us a score for 
that image being a particular font. Every font will have its own set of 
weights, as they will value pixels differently. To convert these scores 
into proper probabilities (represented by Y), we will use what's called 
the softmax function to force their sum to be between 0 and 1, as 
illustrated next. Whatever probability is the greatest for a particular 
image, we will classify it into the associated class.
You can read more about the theory of logistic regression in most 
statistical modeling textbooks. Here is its formula:
One good reference that focuses on applications is William H. 
Greene's Econometric Analysis, Pearson, published in the year 2012.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 41 ---
Getting Started
[ 22 ]
Getting data ready
Implementing logistic regression is pretty easy in TensorFlow and will 
serve as scaffolding for more complex machine learning algorithms. 
First, we need to convert our integer labels into a one-hot format. This 
means, instead of labeling an image with font class 2, we transform 
the label into [0, 0, 1, 0, 0]. That is, we stick 1 in position two (note 
0-up counting is common in computer science) and 0 for every other 
class. Here's the code for our to_onehot function:
def to_onehot(labels,nclasses = 5):
    '''
    Convert labels to "one-hot" format.
    >>> a = [0,1,2,3]
    >>> to_onehot(a,5)
    array([[ 1.,  0.,  0.,  0.,  0.],
           [ 0.,  1.,  0.,  0.,  0.],
           [ 0.,  0.,  1.,  0.,  0.],
           [ 0.,  0.,  0.,  1.,  0.]])
    '''
    outlabels = np.zeros((len(labels),nclasses))
    for i,l in enumerate(labels):
        outlabels[i,l] = 1
    return outlabels
With this done, we can go ahead and call the function:
onehot = to_onehot(labels)
For the pixels, we don't really want a matrix in this case, so we'll 
flatten the 36 x 36 numbers into a one-dimensional vector of length 
1,296, but this will come a little bit later. Also, recall that we've 
rescaled the pixel values of 0-255 so that they fall between 0 and 1.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 42 ---
Chapter 1
[ 23 ]
Okay, our final piece of preparation is to split our dataset into 
training and validation sets. This will help us catch overfitting later 
on. The training set will help us determine the weights in our logistic 
regression model, and the validation set will just be used to confirm 
that those weights are reasonably correct on new data:
# Split data into training and validation
indices = np.random.permutation(train.shape[0])
valid_cnt = int(train.shape[0] * 0.1)
test_idx, training_idx = indices[:valid_cnt],\
                         indices[valid_cnt:]
test, train = train[test_idx,:],\
              train[training_idx,:]
onehot_test, onehot_train = onehot[test_idx,:],\
                        onehot[training_idx,:]
Building a TensorFlow model
Okay, let's kick off the TensorFlow code by creating an interactive 
session:
sess = tf.InteractiveSession()
With this, we've started our first model in TensorFlow.
We're going to use a placeholder variable for x, which represents our 
input images. This is just to tell TensorFlow that we will supply the 
value for this node via feed_dict later on:
# These will be inputs
## Input pixels, flattened
x = tf.placeholder("float", [None, 1296])
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 43 ---
Getting Started
[ 24 ]
Also, note that we can specify the shape of this tensor, and here we 
have used None as one of the sizes. The None size allows us to send an 
arbitrary number of data points into the algorithm at once for batch 
processing. We'll use the variable y_ likewise to hold our known 
labels to be used for training later on:
## Known labels
y_ = tf.placeholder("float", [None,5])
To perform logistic regression, we need a set of weights (W). In fact, we 
need 1,296 weights for each of the five font classes, which will give us 
our shape. Note that we also want to include an extra weight for each 
class as a bias (b). This is the same as adding an extra input variable 
that always takes the value 1:
# Variables
W = tf.Variable(tf.zeros([1296,5]))
b = tf.Variable(tf.zeros([5]))
With all these TensorFlow variables floating around, we need to make 
sure they get initialized. Let's call them now:
# Just initialize
sess.run(tf.global_variables_initializer())
Good job! You've got everything prepared. Now you can implement 
the softmax formula to compute probabilities. Because we set up our 
weights and input very carefully, TensorFlow makes this task very 
easy with just a call to tf.matmul and tf.nn.softmax:
# Define model
y = tf.nn.softmax(tf.matmul(x,W) + b)
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 44 ---
Chapter 1
[ 25 ]
That's it! You've implemented an entire machine learning classifier 
in TensorFlow. Nice work. But where do we get the values for the 
weights? Let's take a look at using TensorFlow to train the model.
Logistic regression training
First, you'll learn about the loss function for our machine learning 
classifier and implement it in TensorFlow. Then, we'll quickly train 
the model by evaluating the right TensorFlow node. Finally, we'll 
verify that our model is reasonably accurate and the weights make 
sense.
Developing the loss function
Optimizing our model really means minimizing how wrong we are. 
With our labels in one-hot style, it's easy to compare these with the 
class probabilities predicted by the model. The categorical cross_
entropy function is a formal way to measure this. While the exact 
statistics are beyond the scope of this course, you can think of it 
as punishing the model for more for less accurate predictions. To 
compute it, we multiply our one-hot real labels element-wise with the 
natural log of the predicted probabilities, then sum these values and 
negate them. Conveniently, TensorFlow already includes this function 
as tf.nn.softmax_cross_entropy_with_logits() and we can just 
call that:
# Climb on cross-entropy
cross_entropy = tf.reduce_mean(
        tf.nn.softmax_cross_entropy_with_logits(
        logits = y + 1e-50, labels = y_))
Note that we are adding a small error value of 1e-50 here to avoid 
numerical instability problems.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 45 ---
Getting Started
[ 26 ]
Training the model
TensorFlow is convenient in that it provides built-in optimizers to 
take advantage of the loss function we just wrote. Gradient descent 
is a common choice and will slowly nudge our weights toward better 
results. This is the node that will update our weights:
# How we train
train_step = tf.train.GradientDescentOptimizer(
                0.02).minimize(cross_entropy)
Before we actually start training, we should specify a few more nodes 
to assess how well the model does:
# Define accuracy
correct_prediction = tf.equal(tf.argmax(y,1),
                     tf.argmax(y_,1))
accuracy = tf.reduce_mean(tf.cast(
           correct_prediction, "float"))
The correct_prediction node is 1 if our model assigns the highest 
probability to the correct class, and 0 otherwise. The accuracy 
variable averages these predictions over the available data, giving us 
an overall sense of how well the model did.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 46 ---
Chapter 1
[ 27 ]
When training in machine learning, we often want to use the same 
data point multiple times to squeeze all the information out. Each pass 
through the entire training data is called an epoch. Here, we're going 
to save both the training and validation accuracy every 10 epochs:
# Actually train
epochs = 1000
train_acc = np.zeros(epochs//10)
test_acc = np.zeros(epochs//10)
for i in tqdm(range(epochs)):
    # Record summary data, and the accuracy
    if i % 10 == 0:
        # Check accuracy on train set
        A = accuracy.eval(feed_dict={
            x: train.reshape([-1,1296]),
            y_: onehot_train})
        train_acc[i//10] = A
        # And now the validation set
        A = accuracy.eval(feed_dict={
            x: test.reshape([-1,1296]),
            y_: onehot_test})
        test_acc[i//10] = A
    train_step.run(feed_dict={
        x: train.reshape([-1,1296]),
        y_: onehot_train})
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 47 ---
Getting Started
[ 28 ]
Note that we use feed_dict to pass in different types of data to get 
different output values. Finally, train_step.run updates the model 
every iteration. This should only take a few minutes on a typical 
computer, much less if you're using a GPU, and a bit more on an 
underpowered machine.
You just trained a model with TensorFlow; awesome!
Evaluating the model accuracy
After 1,000 epochs, let's take a look at the model. If you have 
Matplotlib installed, you can view the accuracies in a graphical plot; 
if not, you can still look at the number. For the final results, use the 
following code:
# Notice that accuracy flattens out
print(train_acc[-1])
print(test_acc[-1])
If you do have Matplotlib installed, you can use the following code to 
display the plot:
# Plot the accuracy curves
plt.figure(figsize=(6,6))
plt.plot(train_acc,'bo')
plt.plot(test_acc,'rx')
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 48 ---
Chapter 1
[ 29 ]
You should see something like the following plot (note that we used 
some random initialization, so it might not be exactly the same):
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 49 ---
Getting Started
[ 30 ]
It seems like the validation accuracy flattens out after about 400-500 
iterations; beyond this, our model may either be overfitting or not 
learning much more. Also, even though the final accuracy of about 
40 percent might seem poor, recall that, with five classes, a totally 
random guess would only have 20 percent accuracy. With this limited 
dataset, the simple model is doing all it can.
It's also often helpful to look at computed weights. These can give you 
a clue as to what the model thinks is important. Let's plot them by 
pixel position for a given class: 
# Look at a subplot of the weights for each font
f, plts = plt.subplots(5, sharex=True)
for i in range(5):
    plts[i].pcolor(W.eval()[:,i].reshape([36,36]))
This should give you a result similar to the following (again, if the plot 
comes out very wide, you can squeeze in the window size to square it 
up):
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 50 ---
Chapter 1
[ 31 ]
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 51 ---
Getting Started
[ 32 ]
We can see that the weights near the interior are important in some 
models, while the weights on the outside are essentially zero. This 
makes sense, since none of the font characters reach the corners of the 
images.
Again, note that your final results might look a little different due 
to random initialization effects. Always feel free to experiment and 
change the parameters of the model; that's how you'll learn new 
things.
Summary
In this chapter, we installed TensorFlow on a machine we can use. 
After some small steps with basic computations, we jumped into a 
machine learning problem, successfully building a decent model with 
just logistic regression and a few lines of TensorFlow code.
In the next chapter, we'll see TensorFlow in its prime with deep neural 
networks.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 52 ---
[ 33 ]
Deep Neural Networks
In the previous chapter, we looked at simple TensorFlow operations 
and how to use logistic regression on our font classification problem. 
In this chapter, we will dive into one of the most popular and 
successful machine learning approaches—neural networks. Using 
TensorFlow, we'll build both simple and deep neural networks to 
improve our model of the font classification problem. Here, we will 
put the basics of neural networks into practice. We will also build and 
train our first neural network with TensorFlow. We will then move on 
to a neural network with a hidden layer of neurons and understand 
it completely. When completed, you will have a better grasp of the 
following topics:
•	 Basic neural networks
•	 The single hidden layer model
•	 The single hidden layer explained
•	 The multiple hidden layer model
•	 Results of the multiple hidden layer
In our first section, we'll review the basics of neural networks. You 
will learn common ways to transform input data, understand how 
neural networks connect these transformations, and finally, how to 
implement a single neuron in TensorFlow.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 53 ---
Deep Neural Networks
[ 34 ]
Basic neural networks
Our logistic regression model worked well enough, but was 
fundamentally linear in nature. Doubling the intensity of a pixel 
doubled its contribution to the score, but we might only really care if 
a pixel was above a certain threshold or put more weight on changes 
to small values. Linearity may not capture all the nuances of the 
problem. One way to handle this issue is to transform our input with a 
nonlinear function. Let's look at a simple example in TensorFlow.
First, be sure to load the required modules (tensorflow, numpy, and 
math) and start an interactive session:
import tensorflow as tf
import numpy as np
import math
sess = tf.InteractiveSession()
In the following example, we create three five-long vectors of normal 
random numbers, truncated to keep them from being too extreme, 
with different centers:
x1 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal([5],
                 mean=3, stddev=1./math.sqrt(5)))
x2 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal([5],
                 mean=-1, stddev=1./math.sqrt(5)))
x3 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal([5],
                 mean=0, stddev=1./math.sqrt(5)))
sess.run(tf.global_variables_initializer())
Note that, because this is random, your values are 
probably going to be a little different, but that's 
perfectly fine.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 54 ---
Chapter 2
[ 35 ]
A common transformation is to square the input. Doing this makes 
larger values even more extreme, and of course makes everything 
positive:
sqx2 = x2 * x2
print(x2.eval())
print(sqx2.eval())
You can see the result in the following screenshot:
Log function
Conversely, if you need more nuance among your small values, you 
can try taking the natural or any base logarithm of your inputs:
logx1 = tf.log(x1)
print(x1.eval())
print(logx1.eval())
Refer to the following screenshot and note that large values tend to 
become squished together, while the smaller values are a little more 
spread out:
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 55 ---
Deep Neural Networks
[ 36 ]
However, logarithms can't handle negative inputs, and the closer you 
get to zero, the more extremely negative your small input becomes. 
Therefore, be careful with logarithms. Finally, there's the sigmoid 
transformation.
Sigmoid function
Don't worry about the formula, just know that extreme values, 
positive and negative, get squished to plus one or zero, respectively, 
and inputs closer to zero become closer to one-half:
sigx3 = tf.sigmoid(x3)
print(x3.eval())
print(sigx3.eval())
Here, you see an example that's become close to one-half. It started at  
one-quarter and is almost one-half now:
In machine learning, we often call these transformations activation 
functions. We usually combine weighted sums of inputs into them. 
When you consider the inputs, weights, and activation functions, that 
is called a neuron because it's inspired by biological neurons.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 56 ---
Chapter 2
[ 37 ]
The details of how real neurons work in a physical brain is beyond 
the scope of this book. If you're interested in that, a neurobiology text 
might contain more, or you can take a look at Gordon M. Shepherd's 
Foundation of the Neuron Doctrine as one recent reference. Let's look at a 
simple example in TensorFlow:
w1 = tf.constant(0.1)
w2 = tf.constant(0.2)
sess.run(tf.global_variables_initializer())
First, just create some constants, w1 and w2. We'll multiply x1 by 
w1 and x2 by w2, then we will add these intermediate values, and 
finally put the result through a sigmoid activation function with 
tf.sigmoid. Take a look at the result shown in the following 
screenshot:
Again, don't worry about the exact formula right now, you can have a 
variety of different activation functions. Just note that this is your first 
step toward your own neural network.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 57 ---
Deep Neural Networks
[ 38 ]
So, how do we go from a single neuron to a whole network? Easy! The 
input of one neuron just becomes the input for another neuron in the 
next layer of the network.
In the preceding diagram, we have a simple network with two inputs, 
X0 and X1, two outputs, Y0 and Y1, and three neurons in the middle. 
The value in X0 gets sent to each of the N neurons, but there's a 
different weight, which is multiplied with the X0 associated with each. 
X1 is also sent to each neuron and has its own set of weights. For each 
neuron, we compute the weighted sum of inputs, put this through the 
activation function, and produce an intermediate output. Now, we 
do the same thing, but consider the outputs of the neurons to be the 
inputs of Ys. Note that, by taking nonlinear activations of weighted 
sums of inputs, we effectively just compute a new set of features for 
our eventual model.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 58 ---
Chapter 2
[ 39 ]
Now you have learned the basics of nonlinear transformations in 
TensorFlow and what neural networks are. Well, they may not let 
you read minds, they are crucial for deep learning. In the next section, 
we'll use the simple neural network to improve our classification 
algorithm.
Single hidden layer model
Here, we'll put the basics of neural network into practice. We'll adapt 
the logistic regression TenserFlow code into a single hidden layer 
of neurons. Then, you'll learn the idea behind backpropagation to 
compute the weights, that is, train the net. Finally, you'll train your 
first true neural network in TensorFlow.
The TensorFlow code for this section should look familiar. It's just a 
slightly evolved version of the logistic regression code. Let's look at 
how to add a hidden layer of neurons that will compute nonlinear 
combinations of our input pixels.
You should start with a fresh Python session, execute the code to read 
in, and set up the data as in the logistic model. It's the same code, just 
copied to the new file:
import tensorflow as tf
import numpy as np
import math
from tqdm import tqdm
%autoindent
try:
    from tqdm import tqdm
except ImportError:
    def tqdm(x, *args, **kwargs):
        return x
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 59 ---
Deep Neural Networks
[ 40 ]
You can always go back to the previous sections and remind yourself 
what that code does; everything up to the num_hidden variable will 
get you up to speed.
Exploring the single hidden layer 
model
Let's now explore the single hidden layer model in a step-by-step 
process:
1.	 First, let's specify how many neurons we want with  
num_hidden = 128; this is essentially how many nonlinear 
combinations will get passed to the logistic progression in  
the end.
2.	 To accommodate this, we also need to update the shape of the 
W1 and b1 weight tensors. They're now feeding into our hidden 
neurons, so they need to match the shape:
W1 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal([1296, num_hidden],
                                   stddev=1./math.sqrt(1296)))
b1 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(0.1,shape=[num_hidden]))
3.	 The way we compute the activation function of the weighted 
sum is with the single h1 line; this is to multiply our input 
pixels by their respective weights for each neuron:
h1 = tf.sigmoid(tf.matmul(x,W1) + b1)
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 60 ---
Chapter 2
[ 41 ]
Add the neuron bias term, and finally, put this through 
the sigmoid activation function; at this point, we have 128 
intermediate values:
4.	 Now it's just your friendly logistic regression again; you 
already know what to do. These newly computed 128 features 
need their own set of weights and biases to compute a score on 
the output class, that's W2 and b2, respectively. Note how the 
shape matches the shape of the neurons 128, and the number of 
the output class is 5:
W2 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal([num_hidden, 5],
                                      stddev=1./math.sqrt(5)))
b2 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(0.1,shape=[5]))
sess.run(tf.global_variables_initializer())
In all these weights, we initialize them with this strange 
truncated normal call. With neural networks, we want to get 
a good spread of initial values so our weights can climb to 
meaningful values rather than just getting zeroed out.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 61 ---
Deep Neural Networks
[ 42 ]
5.	 Truncated normal holds random values from a normal 
distribution with the given standard deviation, a research 
standard scaled to the number of inputs, but throws out values 
that are too extreme, hence the truncation part of this. With 
our weights and neurons all defined, we set the final softmax 
model just as we did before, except we need to take care to use 
our 128 neurons as the input, h1, and the associated weights 
and biases, W2 and b2:
y = tf.nn.softmax(tf.matmul(h1,W2) + b2)
Backpropagation
The key to training the weights of a neural network and many other 
machine learning models is called backpropagation.
A full derivation is beyond the scope of this book, but let's go through 
it intuitively. When you train a model such as logistic regression in 
air and your training set comes directly from poorly chosen weights, 
you can see which weights should be adjusted and by how much and 
change them accordingly.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 62 ---
Chapter 2
[ 43 ]
Formally, TensorFlow does this by computing the derivative of the air 
with respect to the weight and adjusting the weight by a fraction of 
this. Backpropagation is really an extension of the same process.
You start at the bottom output or cost function layer, computing 
derivatives, and use those to compute associated derivatives with 
neurons one layer up. We can compute the appropriate partial 
derivative of the cost with respect to the weight we want to adjust by 
adding up the product of the derivatives on the path from the cost up 
to the weight. The formula shown in the preceding diagram just spells 
out what the red arrows show. If this seems complicated, don't worry.
TensorFlow handles it for you behind the scenes with the optimizer. 
Because we carefully specified our model using TensorFlow to train it 
almost exactly the same as before, we'll use the same code here:
epochs = 5000
train_acc = np.zeros(epochs//10)
test_acc = np.zeros(epochs//10)
for i in tqdm(range(epochs), ascii=True):
    if i % 10 == 0: # Record summary data, and the accuracy
        # Check accuracy on train set
        A = accuracy.eval(feed_dict={x: train.
reshape([-1,1296]), y_: onehot_train})
        train_acc[i//10] = A
        # And now the validation set
        A = accuracy.eval(feed_dict={x: test.
reshape([-1,1296]), y_: onehot_test})
        test_acc[i//10] = A
    train_step.run(feed_dict={x: train.reshape([-1,1296]), 
y_: onehot_train})
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 63 ---
Deep Neural Networks
[ 44 ]
One thing to note is that, because we have these hidden neurons, there 
are many more weights to fit the model. This means that our model 
will take longer to run and that it has to take more iterations to train. 
Let's run it through 5000 epochs this time:
This model probably takes longer than the previous one, maybe 
four times as long. So you can expect a few minutes to 10 minutes, 
depending on your computer. With the model training now, we'll  
look at verifying the accuracy later.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 64 ---
Chapter 2
[ 45 ]
Single hidden layer explained
In this section, we'll carefully look at the model we built. First, we'll 
verify the overall accuracy of our model, then we'll see where the 
model goes wrong. Finally, we'll visualize the weights associated with 
several neurons to see what they're looking for:
plt.figure(figsize=(6, 6))
plt.plot(train_acc,'bo')
plt.plot(test_acc,'rx')
Make sure that you've trained your model as we did in the previous 
section, if not, you might want to stop here and do that first. Because 
we evaluated our model accuracy every 10 training epochs and saved 
the result, it's now easy to explore how our model has evolved.
Using Matplotlib, we can plot both the training accuracy (the blue 
dots) and testing accuracy (the red dots) on the same figure:
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 65 ---
Deep Neural Networks
[ 46 ]
Again, if you don't have Matplotlib, that's okay. You can just look at 
the array values themselves. Note that the training accuracy (blue in 
color) is usually a little better than the testing accuracy (red in color). 
This isn't surprising, since the test images are totally new to the model 
and may contain previously unseen features. Also, observe how the 
accuracy generally climbs over more epochs, moving up, first quite 
a bit, and then slowly advancing. Our model here achieves about 
60 percent accuracy; not perfect, but an improvement on the simple 
logistic regression.
To see where our model is getting mixed up, it's helpful to create the 
confusion matrix. That is, we'll look for an actual plot class, of one say; 
what did the model classify it as? Formally, a 5x5 matrix. For each 
testing image, we increment the value and position i j, if the image 
was actually class i and the model predicted class j. Note that, when 
the model gets this correct, then i = j.
A good model will have big values on the diagonal and not much 
elsewhere. This type of analysis makes it easy to see if two classes are 
often confused for each other or if some classes are rarely chosen by 
the model.
In the following example, we create the predicting classes by 
evaluating y, the class probabilities:
pred = np.argmax(y.eval(feed_dict={x: 
     test.reshape([-1,1296]), y_: onehot_test}), axis = 1)
conf = np.zeros([5,5])
for p,t in zip(pred,np.argmax(onehot_test,axis=1)):
    conf[t,p] += 1
plt.matshow(conf)
plt.colorbar()
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 66 ---
Chapter 2
[ 47 ]
The np.argmax function extracts the position with the largest 
probability. Similarly, to determine the actual class, we use np.argmax 
to undo the one-hot encoding. Creating the confusion matrix starts 
with an all-zero array and we step through the testing data filling it 
in. Matplotlib lets us look at a color image, but printing the conferee is 
nearly as effective:
In the preceding output, we see that the model generally does a 
decent job, except that it rarely predicts class 2. Your exact results may 
look a little different because of initial randomness.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 67 ---
Deep Neural Networks
[ 48 ]
Understanding weights of the 
model
Just as we view the weights for our logistic regression model, we can 
spy on the weights for this model:
plt.figure(figsize=(6, 6))
f, plts = plt.subplots(4,8, sharex=True)
for i in range(32):
    plts[i//8, i%8].pcolormesh(W1.eval()[:,i].
reshape([36,36]))
Now, however, we have 128 neurons, each with 36x36 weights coming 
from the input pixels. Let's look at a few of them to get a feel of what 
they're finding. Again, if you don't have Matplotlib, you can simply 
print out the arrays to see the same behavior. Here we'll look at 32 of 
the 128 neurons. So, let's format our subplot into four rows and eight 
columns. Now, we step through each neuron evaluating its weight 
and reshaping them into the image size. The double slashes (//) put 
the image into the appropriate row using integer division, while the 
percent sign (%) uses the remainder, really modular arithmetic, to pick 
the column.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 68 ---
Chapter 2
[ 49 ]
Visually, in the preceding output, you can see some shapes sticking 
out. Some neurons have more or less a circular shape compared to 
their weight patterns. Others look random, but might be picking up 
features that we can't easily intuit. We can try to visualize the weights 
of the output layer as well, but these are no longer intuitive. We call 
that because of our neural network. The output logistic regression is 
now 128 input values, along with weights being used to compute 5 
scores. There's no longer an image structure, since every pixel went 
into every neuron on the hidden layer. Now you know how to assess 
and interpret neural network results. Good job!
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 69 ---
Deep Neural Networks
[ 50 ]
The multiple hidden layer model
In this section, we'll show you how to build even more complex 
models with additional hidden layers. We'll adapt our single hidden 
layer model into a multilayer model known as a deep neural network. 
Then, we'll discuss choosing how many neurons and layers to use. 
Finally, we'll train the model itself, being patient, as this might take a 
while to compute.
Remember when we added a hidden layer of neurons to our logistic 
regression model? Well, we can do that again, adding another layer to 
our single hidden layer model. Once you have more than one layer of 
neurons, we call this a deep neural network. However, everything you 
learned before can be applied now. As in the previous sections of this 
chapter, you should make a fresh Python session and execute the code 
up to num_hidden1 in this section's code file. Then the fun starts.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 70 ---
Chapter 2
[ 51 ]
Exploring the multiple hidden layer 
model
Let's start by changing the old num_hidden to num_hidden1 to 
indicate the number of neurons on the first hidden layer:
# Hidden layer 1
num_hidden1 = 128
Be sure to change the variables, defining the weight and bias variables 
as well. Now we'll insert our second hidden layer:
W1 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal([1296,num_hidden1],
                               stddev=1./math.sqrt(1296)))
b1 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(0.1,shape=[num_hidden1]))
h1 = tf.sigmoid(tf.matmul(x,W1) + b1)
Let's use the one with 32 neurons this time. Note how the shape of the 
weights must account for every one of the 128 intermediate outputs 
from the previous layer coming into the 32 inputs or neurons of the 
current layer, but we initialize our weights and biases essentially the 
same way:
# Hidden Layer 2
num_hidden2 = 32
W2 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal([num_hidden1,
            num_hidden2],stddev=2./math.sqrt(num_hidden1)))
b2 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(0.2,shape=[num_hidden2]))
h2 = tf.sigmoid(tf.matmul(h1,W2) + b2)
As you can see in the preceding code, we create the h2 output with a 
sigmoid function, as we did before, with a matrix multiply, addition, 
and function call.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 71 ---
Deep Neural Networks
[ 52 ]
For the output logistic regression layer, we just need to update the 
variable names:
# Output Layer
W3 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal([num_hidden2, 5],
                                   stddev=1./math.sqrt(5)))
b3 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(0.1,shape=[5]))
These are now the third set of weights, and of course, this shape must 
match the output of the preceding hidden layer, so, 32 by 5:
Don't forget to update the y model function with the h2, W3, and b3 
variables. You wouldn't want to update all the code, only to use an 
old model.
You might be wondering how we decided on 128 neurons for the 
first layer and 32 neurons for the second layer. The truth is that 
determining a good size and shape for your network can be a 
challenging problem. Though it may be computationally expensive, 
trial and error is one way to develop the model. Typically, you might 
start with an old model and work from there. Here, we started with 
a single hidden layer of 128 neurons and tried adding a new layer 
underneath. We want to compute some features to discriminate five 
classes, so we should keep that in mind when picking the number of 
neurons.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 72 ---
Chapter 2
[ 53 ]
Generally, it's better to start small and work your way up to a minimal 
model that explains the data. If a model with 128 neurons on the top 
layer and 8 neurons on the next layer does poorly, this may indicate 
that we need more features for the final layer and should add more 
neurons, not fewer.
Try doubling the number of neurons in the final layer, and of course, 
it's good to go back to earlier layers and tweak the number of neurons 
there too. Likewise, you can change the learning rate of the optimizer, 
which changes how much the weights get adjusted in every step, and 
even change the function used for optimizing.
Setting all these values is called hyperparameter 
optimization, a hot topic in machine learning research.
Note that we're essentially starting from the simplest possible model, 
logistic regression, and slowly adding on new features and structures. 
If a simple model works well, it may not even be necessary to spend 
time on something more advanced.
Now that our model is specified, let's actually train it:
# Climb on cross-entropy
cross_entropy = tf.reduce_mean(
     tf.nn.softmax_cross_entropy_with_logits(logits= y + 
1e-50, labels= y_))
# How we train
train_step = tf.train.GradientDescentOptimizer(0.01).
minimize(cross_entropy)
# Define accuracy
correct_prediction = tf.equal(tf.argmax(y,1),tf.
argmax(y_,1))
accuracy=tf.reduce_mean(tf.cast(correct_prediction, 
"float"))
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 73 ---
Deep Neural Networks
[ 54 ]
Again, we need to redefine our training nodes in the TensorFlow 
graph, but these are exactly the same as before. Note that, because  
our first hidden layer now hooks into another layer of neurons, we 
have many more weights to compute. The following is the actual 
training code:
epochs = 25000
train_acc = np.zeros(epochs//10)
test_acc = np.zeros(epochs//10)
for i in tqdm(range(epochs)):
    # Record summary data, and the accuracy
    if i % 10 == 0:
        # Check accuracy on train set
        A = accuracy.eval(feed_dict={
            x: train.reshape([-1,1296]),
            y_: onehot_train})
        train_acc[i//10] = A
        # And now the validation set
        A = accuracy.eval(feed_dict={
            x: test.reshape([-1,1296]),
            y_: onehot_test})
        test_acc[i//10] = A
    train_step.run(feed_dict={
        x: train.reshape([-1,1296]),
        y_: onehot_train})
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 74 ---
Chapter 2
[ 55 ]
Before, we had 128 times 5 weights, but now we have 128 times 32 
weights—over six times as much for this layer, and this is on top 
of the initial weights from pixels to the first layer of neurons. One 
downside of deep neural networks is that they can take a while to 
train. Here, we'll run for 25000 epochs to ensure that the weights 
converge:
This may take an hour or longer depending on your computer and 
GPU. While this might seem excessive, professional machine learning 
researchers often train models for up to two weeks. You might learn 
quickly, but the computer takes a while.
In this section, we have built and trained a truly deep neural network 
using TensorFlow. Many professional machine learning models are 
less complicated than what you've written already.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 75 ---
Deep Neural Networks
[ 56 ]
Results of the multiple hidden 
layer
Now, we'll look into what's going on inside a deep neural network. 
First, we'll verify the model accuracy. Then, we'll visualize and study 
the pixel weights. Finally, we'll look at the output weights as well.
After you've trained your deep neural network, let's take a look at the 
model accuracy. We'll do this the same way that we did for the single 
hidden layer model. The only difference this time, is that we have 
many more saved samples of the training and testing accuracy, having 
gone from many more epochs.
As always, don't worry if you don't have Matplotlib; printing parts of 
the arrays is fine.
Understanding the multiple hidden 
layers graph
Execute the following code to see the result:
# Plot the accuracy curves
plt.figure(figsize=(6,6))
plt.plot(train_acc,'bo')
plt.plot(test_acc,'rx')
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 76 ---
Chapter 2
[ 57 ]
From the preceding output graph, we reach about 68 percent training 
accuracy and maybe 63 percent validation accuracy. This isn't too bad, 
but it does leave room for some improvement.
Let's take a moment to look at how the accuracy grows over many 
epochs. Of course, it starts terribly and it has some initial troubles, but 
the weights are random and still learning at that point, and it quickly 
improves over the first several thousand epochs. While it may get 
stuck in local maxima for a time, it usually climbs out and eventually 
slows its accent. Note that it still climbs well into the training period; 
it's only near the end here that the model may have reached its full 
capacity. Your curves might look a little different based on random 
initialization, but that's okay; it's your model and it's pretty good.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 77 ---
Deep Neural Networks
[ 58 ]
To see where our model is having trouble, let's look at the confusion 
matrix:
pred = np.argmax(y.eval(feed_dict={x:
    test.reshape([-1,1296]), y_: onehot_test}), axis = 1)
conf = np.zeros([5,5])
for p,t in zip(pred,np.argmax(onehot_test,axis=1)):
    conf[t,p] += 1
plt.matshow(conf)
plt.colorbar()
Again, this is exactly the same process that we used for the single 
hidden layer model, just on something a little more advanced:
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 78 ---
Chapter 2
[ 59 ]
Plotting this, we see, as in the preceding output, that the model is 
doing well overall, but still has trouble identifying one of the classes, 
this time class 1; we're making incremental progress. With the 
accuracy verified, let's check out what kind of phenomena our first 
layer of neurons, those 128 guys, are finding:
# Let's look at a subplot of some weights
f, plts = plt.subplots(4,8, sharex=True)
for i in range(32):
    plts[i//8, i%8].matshow(W1.eval()[:,i].
reshape([36,36]))
For simplicity, we'll only look at the first 32 such neurons. Using 
the same code from the previous model, these are easy to plot with 
Matplotlib, or to print out:
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 79 ---
Deep Neural Networks
[ 60 ]
Not surprisingly, we saw many of the same kinds of features as in 
the previous model; although, here, they're going to be in different 
positions, even if it looks like the same type of feature, again, due 
to the random initializations. Again, you have some circular-type 
neurons, neurons that find very stripy features, and another neuron 
that finds sort of broad stripes. As far as our neural network is 
concerned, circular shapes and stripy shapes are good ingredients for 
determining font class.
While the weights in our other hidden layers no longer have the 
structure of an image, it can be instructive to look at the weights of 
the output. This will tell us how much each final neuron contributes 
to each class. We can plot this as one heat map or print a single array 
either way using W3.eval:
# Examine the output weights
plt.matshow(W3.eval())
plt.colorbar()
Because we carefully specified W3, each row will represent one neuron 
and each column will represent one class:
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 80 ---
Chapter 2
[ 61 ]
 
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 81 ---
Deep Neural Networks
[ 62 ]
We can see from the preceding output graph that different neurons 
contribute more to some classes than others, indicating that certain 
overall nonlinear features the neuron is computing relate to that 
particular font class. That is, while the values these neurons produce 
are used to compute the scores for every font, a neuron that's very 
important and has a large weight for one font, might be nearly 
irrelevant in another font. For example, the N1 neuron has a very 
large weight for class 2, but has almost zero weight for all the other 
classes. Whatever feature this neuron is computing, is very important 
to class 2, but not so much for the other classes.
Summary
In this chapter, we embraced deep learning with TensorFlow. Though 
we started with the simple model of one hidden layer of neurons, it 
didn't take you long to develop and train a deep neural network for 
the font classification problem.
You learned about the single and multiple hidden layer model and 
understood those in detail. You also understand the different types of 
neural networks and built and trained our first neural network with 
TensorFlow.
In the next chapter, we'll prove our model with convolutional neural 
networks, a powerful tool for image classification.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 82 ---
[ 63 ]
Convolutional Neural 
Networks
In the previous chapter we explored deep neural networks, which 
required ever more parameters to fit. This chapter will guide you 
through one of the most powerful developments in deep learning and 
let us use some of our knowledge about the problem space to improve 
the model. First we're going to explain what a convolutional layer is 
in a neural net followed by a TensorFlow example. Then we'll do the 
same for what's called a pooling layer. Finally, we'll adapt our font 
classification model into a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) 
and see how it does.
In this chapter, we will look at the background of convolutional neural 
nets. We will also implement a convolutional layer in TensorFlow. 
We will learn max pooling layers and put them into practice and 
implement a single pooling layer as an example.
At the end of this chapter, you will have great control over the 
following concepts:
•	 Convolutional layer motivation
•	 Convolutional layer application
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 83 ---
Convolutional Neural Networks
[ 64 ]
•	 Pooling layer motivation
•	 Pooling layer application
•	 Deep CNN
•	 Deeper CNN
•	 Wrapping up Deep CNN
Now let's jump into just what a convolutional layer is.
Convolutional layer motivation
In this section, we're going to walk through using a convolutional 
layer on an example image. We'll graphically see how convolution 
is just a sliding window. Further we'll learn how to extract multiple 
features from a window as well as accept multiple layers of input to a 
window.
In a classic dense layer of a neural network for a given neuron every 
input feature gets its own weight.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 84 ---
Chapter 3
[ 65 ]
This is great if the input features are totally independent and measure 
different things, but what if there is structure among your features. 
The easiest example to imagine this happening is if your input 
features are pixels from an image. Some pixels are next to each other, 
others are far away.
For a task like image classification, and font classification especially, 
it often doesn't matter where a small scale feature occurs in an image. 
We can look for small scale features in a larger image by sliding a 
smaller window throughout the image, and this is key to using the 
same weight matrix no matter where in the image this window is 
positioned. In this way we can always look for the same feature 
anywhere.
Suppose we have a 10x10 image and we want to slide a 3x3 window 
through it. Typically machine learning engineers will slide this 
window by just one pixel at a time. This is called the stride so there 
is some overlap from one window to the next. Then element-wise 
multiply our small 3x3 weight matrix W1 into our window H100, sum 
the results, and put it through an activation function called F.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 85 ---
Convolutional Neural Networks
[ 66 ]
The first window W1 goes into the first position of a new matrix 
shown as H2 on the right. The window slides over one using the 
same weights but the result occupies position two. Note that we're 
essentially using the upper-left pixel as the reference point for where 
we store the result. Slide your window around the whole input image 
to generate the convolutional output. The dots in the following image 
are just a reminder that you'll be sliding this window around the 
whole space not just the two positions shown in the image:
You might be wondering what happens when a window reaches 
the edge of the image. The choice is essentially to go between 
ignoring windows that go over the edge and padding them out with 
placeholder values. For convolutional layers the common choice is to 
pad them out often with zeros or an average value. This is called same 
padding in Tensorflow so called because the output shape of your 
convolution remains the same.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 86 ---
Chapter 3
[ 67 ]
Note that in your final window this is only really looking at one value. 
But that pixel took part in many other positions so don't feel like it's 
been left out.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 87 ---
Convolutional Neural Networks
[ 68 ]
Multiple features extracted
The previous section featured a single set of weights for the sliding 
window. This essentially lets you compute a sliding feature. But you 
probably want to look for multiple things in the same window like a 
vertical or horizontal edge maybe.
To extract multiple features you just need to have additional weight 
matrices all initialized differently. These multiple sets of weights 
are analogies to additional neurons and a densely connected layer. 
Each matrix of weights W1 (blue) and W2 (green) in the center will 
gain you another matrix of output for additional hues shown in the 
following diagram as H21 (pink) and H20 (orange) on the right.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 88 ---
Chapter 3
[ 69 ]
Just as you can pull multiple features out of a convolution you can put 
multiple features into such a network. The most obvious example is 
an image with multiple colors.
Now, observe the matrixes shown in the preceding diagram. You 
really have a matrix with red values, a matrix with green values, and 
a matrix with blue values. Your weight matrix is really now a weight 
tensor of size 3x3x3 with a window of the same size across the colors. 
Of course, you can combine all these approaches and this is typically 
done especially after your first convolutional layer when you've 
computed, say, 32 features on the window; now you have many input 
channels for the next layer.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 89 ---
Convolutional Neural Networks
[ 70 ]
Convolutional layer application
Now let's implement a simple convolutional layer in TensorFlow. 
First, we're going to go over the explicit shapes used in this example, 
as that's often tricky. Then we'll walk through the implementation and 
TensorFlow call for convolutions. Finally, we'll visually inspect the 
results of our convolution by passing in a simple example image.
Exploring the convolution layer
Let's jump right into the code with a fresh IPython session.
This is just a small example to help us get familiar with using 
TensorFlow for convolution layers.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 90 ---
Chapter 3
[ 71 ]
After importing the necessary tools, let's make a fake 10x10 image but 
with larger values on the diagonal:
# Make some fake data, 1 data points
image = np.random.randint(10,size=[1,10,10]) + 
np.eye(10)*10
Note the unusual size specified in the preceding code. The 10, 10 
is just the image dimensions but the 1 refers to the number of input 
channels. In this case, we're using one input channel, which is like 
a gray scale image. If you had a color image, this might be three 
channels to represent red, green, and blue colors.
Though the example here and the research problem only have one 
channel, gray-scale, we'll see in the Deep CNN section how producing 
multiple inputs from a convolution layer leads to a multichannel 
input in the next convolution layer. So you'll still get a feel with how 
to handle that.
Moving down to the TensorFlow place holder, we also do something 
that might seem unusual.
x = tf.placeholder("float", [None, 10, 10])
x_im = tf.reshape(x, [-1,10,10,1])
Right after writing the placeholder variable in a natural way with 10, 
10 and None for the possible batch processing of many images, we call 
tf.reshape. This is to rearrange the dimensions of our image, and 
get them in a shape TensorFlow expects. The -1 just means to fill out 
the dimensions as needed to maintain the overall size. The 10,10 is, 
of course, our image dimension, and the final 1, is now the number 
of channels. Again, if you had a color image with three channels, this 
would be a three.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 91 ---
Convolutional Neural Networks
[ 72 ]
For our convolutional layer example, we want to look at windows 
of the image that are three pixels tall and three pixels wide. So we 
specify those as shown in the following code:
# Window size to use, 3x3 here
winx = 3
winy = 3
Also, let's extract two features from each window so that's our number 
of filters:
# How many features to compute on the window
num_filters = 2
You might also see this called the number of kernels.
Specifying the weight is where things get really interesting but it's not 
hard once you know the syntax.
W1 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal(
    [winx, winy,1, num_filters],
    stddev=1./math.sqrt(winx*winy)))
We're using tf.truncated_normal as we did earlier to generate 
random weights. But the size is very peculiar. The attributes, winx 
and winy are, of course, the dimensions of our window, 1 here is the 
number of input channels, so just gray-scale, and the final dimension 
(num_filters) is the output dimension, the number of filters.
Again, this is an analogy to the number of neurons for a densely 
connected layer. For the standard deviation on the randomness, 
we still scale to the number of parameters, but note that we have a 
parameter for each weight, so win x*win y.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 92 ---
Chapter 3
[ 73 ]
And the bias of course needs a variable for each output neuron, so one 
for each filter:
b1 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(
    0.1,shape=[num_filters]))
The tf.nn.conv2d function is really the heart of the operation here. 
We first pass in our reshaped input x_im, then the weights that are 
applied to every window, and then the strides argument.
The strides argument tells TensorFlow how much 
to move your window by at every step.
Typical usage for convolution layers, is the shift by one pixel to the 
right and when you finish a row, shift by one pixel down. So there's 
a great deal of overlap. If you want to shift by two pixels to the right, 
and two down; however, you could input strides=[1,2,2,1]. The 
last number is for moving over channels and the first is for moving 
over separate images in a batch. Setting these to 1, is the most 
common approach.
xw = tf.nn.conv2d(x_im, W1,
        strides=[1, 1, 1, 1],
        padding='SAME')
The padding='SAME' is exactly as described in the last section. This 
means that the sliding window will run even if part of it is beyond 
the bounds of your input image. Combined with a stride of one, this 
means that the convolutional output dimensions will be the same as 
the input, not counting the number of channels or filters of course.
Finally, we want to pass this convolutional output through an 
activation function:
h1 = tf.nn.relu(xw + b1)
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 93 ---
Convolutional Neural Networks
[ 74 ]
Here we're using the relu function, which stands for rectified linear. 
Basically, this just means that any negative input gets set to zero while 
positive inputs stay the same. You'll see this activation used often 
with convolutional neural networks. So it's good to be familiar with it. 
Since we've already multiplied the W1 weights, we just need to add the 
bias terms here to produce the convolutional layer output.
Initialize the variables in TensorFlow:
# Remember to initialize!
sess.run(tf.global_variables_initializer())
Now, you have a working convolution. Nice! Let's take a quick look at 
the fruits of our labor.
First, we need to evaluate the h1 node, passing in our example image 
as the data:
# Peek inside
H = h1.eval(feed_dict = {x: image})
So we know where to start let's look at the example image using the 
following code:
# Let's take a look
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
plt.ion()
# Original
plt.matshow(image[0])
plt.colorbar()
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 94 ---
Chapter 3
[ 75 ]
The 0 in the preceding code is just because of the strange shaping, 
there are not really multiple data points. You can see that the values 
on the diagonal are larger than the other values, just to be distinct 
from being purely random:
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 95 ---
Convolutional Neural Networks
[ 76 ]
Let's take a look at the first output feature, recall that the output H has 
a shape of 1,10,10,2, because there's 1 data point, 10 pixels in width 
and height, and 2 features. So to grab the first, we want all the pixels 
and the zero with filter. Okay, that's interesting.
# Conv channel 1
plt.matshow(H[0,:,:,0])
plt.colorbar()
Notice how many positions are zeroed out:
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 96 ---
Chapter 3
[ 77 ]
That's the rectify part of the relu activation. Neat. The second feature 
should look similar, up to random initialization. These weights 
haven't been trained on anything yet, so we shouldn't expect them to 
produce meaningful output. Here we see there happens to be many 
zeroes but otherwise, there are many small values.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 97 ---
Convolutional Neural Networks
[ 78 ]
Your images might look more or less different, the important thing to 
note, is that our output dimensions are the same but it's like we have 
two different views of the same image. In this section, we created our 
first convolutional layer in TensorFlow mastering the odd shapes 
required.
Pooling layer motivation
Now let's understand a common partner to pooling layers. In this 
section, we're going to learn about max pooling layers being similar to 
convolutional layers, although they have some differences in common 
usage. We'll wrap up by showing how these layers can be combined 
for maximum effect.
Max pooling layers
Suppose you've used a convolutional layer to extract a feature from an 
image and suppose hypothetically, you had a small weight matrix that 
detects a dog shape in the window of the image.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 98 ---
Chapter 3
[ 79 ]
When you convolve this around your output is likely to report 
many nearby regions with dog shapes. But this is really just due to 
the overlap. There probably aren't many dogs all next to each other, 
though maybe an image of puppies would. You'd really only like to 
see that feature once and preferably wherever it is strongest. The max 
pooling layer attempts to do this. Like a convolutional layer a pooling 
layer works on a small sliding windows of an image.
Typically, researchers add a pooling layer after one or more 
convolutional layers. You most often see them with window sizes of 
2x2. All you do is extract the four adjacent values, here referring to H00 
usually no weights are applied to them. Now, we want to combine 
these four values in a way to extract the most interesting feature of this 
window. Typically, we want to pull out the most striking feature, so 
we choose the pixel with the maximum value (max(H00)) and throw 
out the rest. But, you could also average the results or do something 
more exotic. Also, while our convolutional windows had a great deal 
of overlap, with pooling windows, we usually don't want any overlap, 
so this stride will equal window size 2.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 99 ---
Convolutional Neural Networks
[ 80 ]
In the preceding 10x10 example output, our pooling output is only 5x5 
because of this change in stride.
Another key difference from convolutional layers, is that pooling 
layers often use a different padding scheme, whereas convolutional 
layers are happy to use same padding and pad out with zeros, we 
most often use pooling layers with valid padding. This means that if a 
window is beyond the bounds of an image, we throw it out.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 100 ---
Chapter 3
[ 81 ]
This does lose some information at the edges but ensures that outputs 
aren't being biased by padding values.
Note that this example uses a 9x9 input to the pooling 
layer, but because of the valid padding and stride of 2, 
the output will only be 4x4. An 8x8 input would also 
have 4x4 output.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 101 ---
Convolutional Neural Networks
[ 82 ]
The real strength of convolutional and pooling layers comes when you 
combine them. Most often you'll see a convolutional layer at the top 
input side of a model, maybe with a 3x3 window.
This looks for the same set of features anywhere in an image.
Then a 2x2 max pooling layer immediately follows, pooling out only 
the regions most exhibiting the features and cutting down the size. 
You can iterate this process too.
After pooling, you now have essentially a smaller image P1 but 
instead of pixel color intensities, you have feature intensities. So you 
can create another convolutional layer to read in the output of the first 
pooling, that is the P1 present at the bottom and then you can apply 
another max pooling layer to this. Note how because of the pooling, 
the image size is gradually shrinking. Intuitively, you can think of 
this as building up larger scale features that span larger regions of the 
image.
Early convolutional weights often train to detect simple edges and 
successive convolutional layers combine those edges into gradually 
more complex shapes such as faces, cars, and even dogs.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 102 ---
Chapter 3
[ 83 ]
Pooling layer application
In this section, we're going to take a look at the TensorFlow function 
for max pooling, then we'll talk about transitioning from a pooling 
layer back to a fully connected layer. Finally, we'll visually look at the 
pooling output to verify its reduced size.
Let's pick up in our example from where we left off in the previous 
section. Make sure you've executed everything up to the pound 
pooling layer before starting this exercise.
Recall we've put a 10x10 image through a 3x3 convolution and 
rectified linear activation. Now, let's add a 2x2 max pooling layer that 
comes after our convolutional layer.
p1 = tf.nn.max_pool(h1, ksize=[1, 2, 2, 1],
          strides=[1, 2, 2, 1], padding='VALID')
The key to this is tf.nn.max_pool. The first argument is just the 
output of our previous convolutional layer, h1. Next we have the 
strange ksize. This really just defines the window size of our 
pooling. In this case, 2x2. The first 1 refers to how many data points 
to pull over at once or the batch. Typically we leave this as 1. The 
final 1 refers to the number of channels to include in the pooling at 
once. Note that here we have two channels because the convolution 
produced two output filters. But we only have a 1 in this position; this 
is the only fault the max of a single feature at a time. Strides works 
just as it did in the convolution layer. The difference here is that we 
use 2x2, the size of our pooling window, because we don't want any 
overlap. The pre and post 1 values are exactly the same as in the 
convolutional layer.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 103 ---
Convolutional Neural Networks
[ 84 ]
So our output will be half the size in each dimension, here 5x5. Finally, 
we set the padding to VALID. This means that if a window were to 
go beyond the edge of the image, really the convolutional output, we 
would throw that out and not use it. If our pooling layer feeds into yet 
another convolutional layer, you can add that in the following code 
line:
# We automatically determine the size
p1_size = np.product([s.value for s in p1.get_shape()[1:]])
But what if you're done with convolutional layers and want to  
feed into a classic fully connected layer like in our model from  
the previous section. This is easy to do; we just need to flatten our 
output from a 2D matrix with many channels of output to a long,  
one-dimensional vector.
This line is one-way to automatically compute the length of the 
flattened pooling output. All it does is multiply the sizes of all the 
dimensions. So a 5x5 matrix with two channels would yield 5x5x2, 
which is 50 outputs. The next line tf.reshape uses this value to 
actually flatten the array:
p1f = tf.reshape(p1, [-1, p1_size ])
The -1 in the preceding code line is to handle potential batching 
of many input images at once. It tells TensorFlow to pick this first 
dimension such that the overall number of parameters remains the 
same. Let's peek at the output of our pooling layer so we can see a 
concrete example:
P = p1.eval(feed_dict = {x: image})
First we have to actually evaluate our pooling output given our input 
image.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 104 ---
Chapter 3
[ 85 ]
Because the pooling layer depends on the convolutional layer, 
TensorFlow will automatically put our image through that first. 
We can look at the results the exact same way as we did for the 
convolutional output.
Just looking at the preceding first filter output, you can notice that  
it's 5x5.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 105 ---
Convolutional Neural Networks
[ 86 ]
Also note that the values present were all in some cell of the 
convolution output. Since our only activation on the pooling layer is 
the maximum, three values get dropped in each 2x2 window and one 
advances to the next layer.
Deep CNN
Now, in this section, let's think big. In this section, we're going to add 
a convolutional and pooling layer combo to our font classification 
model. We'll make sure to feed this into a dense layer and we'll see 
how this model does. Before jumping into the new convolutional 
model, make sure to start a fresh IPython session. Execute everything 
up to num_filters = 4 and you'll be ready to go.
Adding convolutional and pooling 
layer combo
For our convolutional layer we're going to use a 5x5 window with 
four features extracted. This is a little bigger than the example.
We really want the model to learn something now. First we should 
use tf.reshape to put our 36x36 image into a tensor of size 36x36x1.
x_im = tf.reshape(x, [-1,36,36,1])
This is only important to keep the number of channels straight. Now 
we'll just set up the constants for our number of filters and window as 
just described:
num_filters = 4
winx = 5
winy = 5
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 106 ---
Chapter 3
[ 87 ]
We can set up our weight tensor just like we did in the example 
problem:
W1 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal(
    [winx, winy, 1 , num_filters],
    stddev=1./math.sqrt(winx*winy)))
The winx and winy constants are just window dimensions. The 1 
value is the number of input channels, just gray, and num_filters 
is how many features we're extracting. Again it's like the number of 
neurons in a dense layer. The bias works the same way but it only 
worries about the number of filters:
b1 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(0.1,
                shape=[num_filters]))
The call to conv2d itself is also the same as our example.
xw = tf.nn.conv2d(x_im, W1,
                  strides=[1, 1, 1, 1],
                  padding='SAME')
Good thing we generalized it there to make life easy now. Following 
is the description of the preceding code lines:
•	 x_im is transformed input
•	 W1 attribute is the weight matrix we just specified
•	 strides tells TensorFlow to move the window by one each 
step
•	 padding='SAME' means to accept windows over the edge of 
the image
Now we can put our convolution through the relu activation function 
to complete the convolutional layer. Good job!
h1 = tf.nn.relu(xw + b1)
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 107 ---
Convolutional Neural Networks
[ 88 ]
The pooling layer is also exactly the same as in the previous section:
# 2x2 Max pooling, no padding on edges
p1 = tf.nn.max_pool(h1, ksize=[1, 2, 2, 1],
        strides=[1, 2, 2, 1], padding='VALID')
Just to review we slide a 2x2 window, the ksize, over the 
convolutional output sliding by two each time the stride. When we 
would reach beyond the edge of the data the padding='VALID' tells 
us to stop. Now that we have a combined convolutional and pooling 
layer let's append a typical densely connected layer:
p1_size = np.product(
          [s.value for s in p1.get_shape()[1:]])
p1f = tf.reshape(p1, [-1, p1_size ])
First we need to reshape the pooling output to be a one-dimensional 
vector. This is exactly what we did in the last section. We 
automatically compute the dimensions of the pooling output to get 
the number of parameters for flattening.
CNN to classify our fonts
Now let's create a densely connected layer with 32 neurons:
# Dense layer
num_hidden = 32
W2 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal(
     [p1_size, num_hidden],
     stddev=2./math.sqrt(p1_size)))
b2 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(0.2,
     shape=[num_hidden]))
h2 = tf.nn.relu(tf.matmul(p1f,W2) + b2)
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 108 ---
Chapter 3
[ 89 ]
Of course, we'll need to initialize our weight matrix with p1_size  
the number of inputs to this layer. That's just the flattened array  
from the convolution and pooling output. And we'll need num_hidden 
the 32 outputs. The biased term works the same way with some 
small non-zero initial value. And here we happen to be using relu 
activation as well.
To finish up we define the output logistic regression as usual:
# Output Layer
W3 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal(
     [num_hidden, 5],
     stddev=1./math.sqrt(num_hidden)))
b3 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(0.1,shape=[5]))
keep_prob = tf.placeholder("float")
h2_drop = tf.nn.dropout(h2, keep_prob)
Working from an old model just make sure that the final weights 
use num_hidden, 5 for the size. We have a new element here called 
dropout. Don't worry about it now. We'll describe exactly what it 
does in the next section. Just know that it helps with overfitting.
You can now initialize all your variables and implement the final call 
to softmax:
# Just initialize
sess.run(tf.global_variables_initializer())
# Define model
y = tf.nn.softmax(tf.matmul(h2_drop,W3) + b3)
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 109 ---
Convolutional Neural Networks
[ 90 ]
Be careful that your variable names match appropriately. Okay now 
that setup is complete let's train it up:
# Climb on cross-entropy
cross_entropy = tf.reduce_mean(
        tf.nn.softmax_cross_entropy_with_logits(
        logits = y + 1e-50, labels = y_))
# How we train
train_step = tf.train.GradientDescentOptimizer(
             0.01).minimize(cross_entropy)
# Define accuracy
correct_prediction = tf.equal(tf.argmax(y,1),
                              tf.argmax(y_,1))
accuracy = tf.reduce_mean(tf.cast(
           correct_prediction, "float"))
We train the model virtually exactly the same way we did the 
previous models. The cross_entropy node measures how wrong our 
predictions are and GradientDescentOptimizer adjusts the weights 
of our matrices. We should also take care to define nodes for our 
accuracy so we can measure that later. Let's train the model now with 
about 5,000 iterations:
# Actually train
epochs = 5000
train_acc = np.zeros(epochs//10)
test_acc = np.zeros(epochs//10)
for i in tqdm(range(epochs), ascii=True):
    # Record summary data, and the accuracy
    if i % 10 == 0:  
        # Check accuracy on train set
        A = accuracy.eval(feed_dict={x: train,
            y_: onehot_train, keep_prob: 1.0})
        train_acc[i//10] = A
        # And now the validation set
        A = accuracy.eval(feed_dict={x: test,
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 110 ---
Chapter 3
[ 91 ]
            y_: onehot_test, keep_prob: 1.0})
        test_acc[i//10] = A
    train_step.run(feed_dict={x: train,
        y_: onehot_train, keep_prob: 0.5})
This may take an hour or more. but just imagine if you had to train 
a different weight for every window in your convolution. With the 
model trained let's look at the accuracy curves.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 111 ---
Convolutional Neural Networks
[ 92 ]
We can see that this model outperforms the old densely connected 
model now reaching 76 percent training accuracy and about  
68 percent validation.
This is probably because the font even though it creates many 
different letters uses many small-scale features in the same way.  
Let's look at the confusion matrix too.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 112 ---
Chapter 3
[ 93 ]
Here we see that the model is still not perfect but it's making progress. 
Class one is still underrepresented but it's at least partially correct 
unlike in some previous models where it was never correct. The other 
classes are mostly good. Class three is actually perfect. This isn't an 
easy problem so any improvement is good. We also set some code to 
examine the weights specifically, but we're going to save that for a 
later section. However feel free to play around with them here. You 
can save model weights and information in a checkpoint file.
# Save the weights
saver = tf.train.Saver()
saver.save(sess, "conv1.ckpt")
# Restore
saver.restore(sess, "conv1.ckpt")
This is pretty simple. You just create a saver object and then you save 
the session to a filename. Restoring is just as easy. You tell TensorFlow 
what session to put your saved file in and off you go. If you prefer to 
use NumPy to manually save your weights, the code file also provides 
functions for that:
# Or use Numpy manually
def save_all(name = 'conv1'):
    np.savez_compressed(name, W1.eval(),
            b1.eval(), W2.eval(), b2.eval(),
            W3.eval(), b3.eval())
save_all()
def load_all(name = 'conv1.npz'):
    data = np.load(name)
    sess.run(W1.assign(data['arr_0']))
    sess.run(b1.assign(data['arr_1']))
    sess.run(W2.assign(data['arr_2']))
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 113 ---
Convolutional Neural Networks
[ 94 ]
    sess.run(b2.assign(data['arr_3']))
    sess.run(W3.assign(data['arr_4']))
    sess.run(b3.assign(data['arr_5']))
load_all()
This can be more convenient because the NumPy format is very 
portable and reasonably lightweight. If you're exporting values to 
another Python script so that it doesn't need TensorFlow you might 
prefer NumPy. In this section we built a convolutional neural network 
to classify our fonts. An analogous model run on current research 
problems today. You are at the forefront of deep learning with 
TensorFlow.
Deeper CNN
In this section, we're going to add another convolutional layer to our 
model. Don't worry, we'll walk through the parameters to make sizing 
line up and we'll learn what dropout training is.
Adding a layer to another layer of 
CNN
As usual, when starting a new model, make a fresh IPython session 
and execute the code up to num_filters1. Great, now you're all set to 
start learning. Let's jump into our convolutional model.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 114 ---
Chapter 3
[ 95 ]
Why don't we be ambitious and set the first convolutional layer to 
have 16 filters, far more than the 4 from our old model. But, we'll use 
a smaller window size this time. Just 3x3. Also note that we changed 
some variable names such as num_filters to num_filters1. This 
is because we're going to have another convolutional layer in just a 
moment and we might want a different number of filters on each. The 
rest of this layer is exactly as it was before, we can convolve and do 
2x2 max pooling and we use the rectified linear activation unit.
Now we add another convolutional layer. Some models do several 
convolutions followed by a pooling layer, others do one convolution, 
then one pooling, then one convolution, and so on. We're doing the 
latter here. Suppose you want four filters and a 3x3 window. This is 
easy to make weights for; the only big difference from the previous 
layer is that we now have many input channels, see num_filters1 
here:
# Conv layer 2
num_filters2 = 4
winx2 = 3
winy2 = 3
W2 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal(
    [winx2, winy2, num_filters1, num_filters2],
    stddev=1./math.sqrt(winx2*winy2)))
b2 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(0.1,
     shape=[num_filters2]))
That's because we have 16 input channels coming from the previous 
layer. If we had used num_filters1 = 8, we'd have only 8 input 
channels. Think of this as a low-level feature that we're going to build 
on. And remember the number of channels and the input is like the 
number of colors, so if you want to think about it like that, that might 
help you.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 115 ---
Convolutional Neural Networks
[ 96 ]
When we do the actual second convolutional layer, make sure to pass 
in the output from the first pooling layer p1. Now this can go into a 
new relu activation function followed by another pooling layer. As 
usual we do 2x2 max pooling with valid padding:
# 3x3 convolution, pad with zeros on edges
p1w2 = tf.nn.conv2d(p1, W2,
       strides=[1, 1, 1, 1], padding='SAME')
h1 = tf.nn.relu(p1w2 + b2)
# 2x2 Max pooling, no padding on edges
p2 = tf.nn.max_pool(h1, ksize=[1, 2, 2, 1],
     strides=[1, 2, 2, 1], padding='VALID')
Flattening the pooling output for a convolution follows the same 
process as the last model too. This time, however, we work on pooling 
output 2 of course. Getting it's number of parameters from all its 
features in the window into one big vector:
# Need to flatten convolutional output
p2_size = np.product(
        [s.value for s in p2.get_shape()[1:]])
p2f = tf.reshape(p2, [-1, p2_size ])
Now we insert a densely connected layer into our neural network just 
like we've done in previous sections. Just make sure to update the 
variable names.
# Dense layer
num_hidden = 32
W3 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal(
     [p2_size, num_hidden],
     stddev=2./math.sqrt(p2_size)))
b3 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(0.2,
     shape=[num_hidden]))
h3 = tf.nn.relu(tf.matmul(p2f,W3) + b3)
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 116 ---
Chapter 3
[ 97 ]
Now we see the same tf.nn.dropout that we used but didn't explain 
in the last model:
# Drop out training
keep_prob = tf.placeholder("float")
h3_drop = tf.nn.dropout(h3, keep_prob)
Dropout is a way to temporarily cut a neuron out of our model. We do 
this during training to help avoid overfitting. Each batch TensorFlow 
will pick different neuronal output at this connection layer to remove. 
This helps the model be robust in the face of small changes during 
training. The keep_prob is the probability of keeping a particular 
neuron output. It's common to set this to 0.5 during training.
And again, the final logistic regression layer and the training node 
code is all the same as earlier:
# Output Layer
W4 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal(
     [num_hidden, 5],
     stddev=1./math.sqrt(num_hidden)))
b4 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(0.1,shape=[5]))
# Just initialize
sess.run(tf.initialize_all_variables())
# Define model
y = tf.nn.softmax(tf.matmul(h3_drop,W4) + b4)
### End model specification, begin training code
# Climb on cross-entropy
cross_entropy = tf.reduce_mean(
        tf.nn.softmax_cross_entropy_with_logits(
.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 117 ---
Convolutional Neural Networks
[ 98 ]
        y + 1e-50, y_))
# How we train
train_step = tf.train.GradientDescentOptimizer(
             0.01).minimize(cross_entropy)
# Define accuracy
correct_prediction = tf.equal(tf.argmax(y,1),
                              tf.argmax(y_,1))
accuracy = tf.reduce_mean(tf.cast(
           correct_prediction, "float"))
You can execute that now. Now we can train our full convolutional 
neural net, the apex of our modelling thus far:
# Actually train
epochs = 6000
train_acc = np.zeros(epochs//10)
test_acc = np.zeros(epochs//10)
for i in tqdm(range(epochs), ascii=True):
    # Record summary data, and the accuracy
    if i % 10 == 0:  
        # Check accuracy on train set
        A = accuracy.eval(feed_dict={x: train,
            y_: onehot_train, keep_prob: 1.0})
        train_acc[i//10] = A
        # And now the validation set
        A = accuracy.eval(feed_dict={x: test,
            y_: onehot_test, keep_prob: 1.0})
        test_acc[i//10] = A
    train_step.run(feed_dict={x: train,\
        y_: onehot_train, keep_prob: 0.5})
This model can take several hours to train, so you might want to start 
it now before the next section.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 118 ---
Chapter 3
[ 99 ]
Wrapping up deep CNN
We're going to wrap-up deep CNN by evaluating our model's 
accuracy. Last time, we set up the final font recognition model. Now, 
let's see how it does. In this section, we're going to learn how to 
handle dropouts during training. Then, we'll see what accuracy the 
model achieved. Finally, we'll visualize the weights to understand 
what the model learned.
Make sure you pick up in your IPython session after training in the 
previous model. Recall that when we trained our model, we used 
dropout to remove some outputs.
While this helps with overfitting, during testing we want to make sure 
to use every neuron. This both increases the accuracy and makes sure 
that we don't forget to evaluate part of the model. And that's why in 
the following code lines we have, keep_prob is 1.0, to always keep 
all the neurons.
# Check accuracy on train set
        A = accuracy.eval(feed_dict={x: train,
            y_: onehot_train, keep_prob: 1.0})
        train_acc[i//10] = A
        # And now the validation set
        A = accuracy.eval(feed_dict={x: test,
            y_: onehot_test, keep_prob: 1.0})
        test_acc[i//10] = A
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 119 ---
Convolutional Neural Networks
[ 100 ]
Let's see how the final model did; just take a look at the training and 
testing accuracy as usual:
The training accuracy here topped 85 percent, and the testing 
accuracy isn't too far behind. Not too bad. How good a model does, 
depends on how noisy the input data is. If we only have a small 
amount of information, both in the number of examples and number 
of parameters or pixels, then we can't expect a model to perform 
perfectly.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 120 ---
Chapter 3
[ 101 ]
In this case, one metric you can apply is how well a human could 
classify images of a single letter to each of these fonts. Some of the 
fonts are very distinctive, while others are similar, especially for 
certain letters. Because this is a novel dataset, there isn't a direct 
benchmark to compare against, but you can challenge yourself to beat 
the model presented in this course. If you do so, you might want to 
reduce the training time. Smaller networks with fewer parameters and 
simpler computations, of course, will be faster. Alternatively, if you 
start using a GPU or at least a multicore CPU, you can get dramatic 
speedups. Often 10X is better, depending on the hardware.
Part of this is parallelism, and part of it is highly-efficient low-level 
libraries fine-tuned for neural networks. But the easiest thing to do is 
start simple and work your way up to more complex models, just like 
you've been doing with this problem. Back to this model, let's see the 
confusion matrix:
# Look at the final testing confusion matrix
pred = np.argmax(y.eval(
       feed_dict={x: test, keep_prob: 1.0,
       y_: onehot_test}), axis = 1)
conf = np.zeros([5,5])
for p,t in zip(pred,np.argmax(onehot_test,
                              axis=1)):
    conf[t,p] += 1
plt.matshow(conf)
plt.colorbar()
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 121 ---
Convolutional Neural Networks
[ 102 ]
The following is the output:
Here, we can see that the model is generally doing a good job on the 
various classes. Class 1 still isn't perfect, but it's much better than in 
the previous models. By building up smaller scale features into larger 
pieces, we have finally found some good indicators for the classes. 
Your images might not look exactly the same. It's possible to get a 
little unlucky with the results, depending on the random initialization 
of your weights.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 122 ---
Chapter 3
[ 103 ]
Let's look at the weights for the 16 features of the first convolutional 
layer:
# Let's look at a subplot of some weights
f, plts = plt.subplots(4,4)
for i in range(16):
    plts[i//4,i%4].matshow(W1.eval()[:,:,0,i],
            cmap = plt.cm.gray_r)
Because the window size is 3x3, each one is a 3x3 matrix. Uh-huh! We 
can see the weights are definitely pulling out small-scale features.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 123 ---
Convolutional Neural Networks
[ 104 ]
You can see certain things like edges being detected or rounded 
corners, different things like that. If we redo the model with a larger 
window, this might be even more apparent. But it's impressive how 
many features you can spot in just these small patches.
Let's also look at the final layer weights, just to see how the different 
font classes interpret the final densely connected neurons.
Each row represents a class, and each column is one of the final 
hidden layer neurons. Some classes are influenced strongly by certain 
neurons, while others have minimal effect. And you can see how a 
given neuron is very important, positively or negatively, for certain 
classes, while mostly neutral for the others.
Note that because we've flattened our convolutions, we don't expect 
to see obvious structure in the output. These columns could be in 
any order, and still produce the same results. In the final section of 
the chapter, we checked out a real, live and frankly, pretty nice deep 
convolutional neural network model. We built up the idea using the 
practice of using convolutional and pooling layers, in order to extract 
small and large-scale features in structured data, such as images.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 124 ---
Chapter 3
[ 105 ]
For many problems, this is among the most powerful types of neural 
networks.
Summary
In this chapter, we walked through the convolutional layer on an 
example image. We tackled the practical aspects of understanding 
the convolutions. They can be convoluted but hopefully no longer 
confusing. We eventually applied this concept to a simple example in 
TensorFlow. We explored a common partner to convolutions, pooling 
layers. We explained the workings of max pooling layers, a common 
convolutional partner. Then, as we progressed, we put this into 
practice by adding a pooling layer to our example. We also practiced 
creating a max pooling layer in TensorFlow. We started adding 
convolutional neural nets to the font classification problem. 
In the next chapter, we'll look at models with a time component, 
Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs).
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 125 ---
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 126 ---
[ 107 ]
Introducing Recurrent 
Neural Networks
In the previous chapter, you learned about convolutional networks. 
Now, it's time to move on to a new type of model and problem—
Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs). In this chapter, we'll explain the 
workings of RNNs, and implement one in TensorFlow. Our example 
problem will be a simple season predictor with weather information. 
We will also take a look at skflow, a simplified interface to 
TensorFlow. This will let us quickly re-implement both our old image 
classification models and the new RNN. At the end of this chapter, 
you will have a good understanding of the following concepts:
•	 Exploring RNNs
•	 TensorFlow learn
•	 Dense Neural Network (DNN)
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 127 ---
Introducing Recurrent Neural Networks
[ 108 ]
Exploring RNNs
In this section, we'll explore RNNs. Some background information 
will start us off, and then we will look at a motivating weather 
modeling problem. We'll also implement and train an RNN in 
TensorFlow.
In a typical model, you have some X input features and some Y 
output you want to predict. We usually consider our different training 
samples as independent observations. So, the features from data point 
one shouldn't impact the prediction for data point two. But what if 
our data points are correlated? The most common example is that each 
data point, Xt, represents features collected at time t. It's natural to 
suppose that the features at time t and time t+1 will both be important 
to the prediction at time t+1. In other words, history matters.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 128 ---
Chapter 4
[ 109 ]
Now, when modeling, you could just include twice as many input 
features, adding the previous time step to the current ones, and 
computing twice as many input weights. But, if you're going through 
all the effort of building a neural network to compute transform 
features, it would be nice if you could use the intermediate features 
from the previous time step, in the current time step network.
RNNs do exactly this. Consider your input, Xt as usual, but add in 
some state, St-1 that comes from the previous time step, as additional 
features. Now you can compute weights as usual to predict Yt, and 
you produce a new internal state, St, to be used in the next time step. 
For the first time step, it's typical to use a default or zero initial state. 
Classic RNNs are literally this simple, but there are more advanced 
structures common in literature today, such as gated recurrent units 
and long short-term memory circuits. These are beyond the scope of 
this book, but work on the same principles and generally apply to the 
same types of problems.
Modeling the weights
You might be wondering how we'll compute weights with all these 
dependents on the previous time step. Computing the gradients does 
involve recursing back through the time computation, but fear not, 
TensorFlow handles the tedious stuff and let's us do the modeling:
# read in data
filename = 'weather.npz'
data = np.load(filename)
daily = data['daily']
weekly = data['weekly']
num_weeks = len(weekly)
dates = np.array([datetime.datetime.strptime(str(int(d)),
                '%Y%m%d') for d in weekly[:,0]])
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 129 ---
Introducing Recurrent Neural Networks
[ 110 ]
To use RNNs, we need a data modeling problem with a time 
component.
The font classification problem isn't really appropriate here. So, let's 
take a look at some weather data. The weather.npz file is a collection 
of weather station data from a city in the United States over several 
decades. The daily array contains measurements from every day of 
the year. There are six columns to the data, starting with the date. 
Next, is the precipitation, measuring any rainfall in inches that day. 
After this, come two columns for snow—the first is measured snow 
currently on the ground, while the latter is snowfall on that day, 
again, in inches. Finally, we have some temperature information, the 
daily high and the daily low in degrees Fahrenheit.
The weekly array, which we'll use, is a weekly summary of the daily 
information. We'll use the middle date to indicate the week, then, we'll 
sum up all rainfall for the week. For snow, however, we'll average the 
snow on the ground, since it doesn't make sense to add snow from 
one cold day to the same snow sitting on the ground the next day. 
Snowfall though, we'll total for the week, just like rain. Finally, we'll 
average the high and low temperatures for the week respectively. 
Now that you've got a handle on the dataset, what shall we do with 
it? One interesting time-based modeling problem would be trying to 
predict the season of a particular week using it's weather information 
and the history of previous weeks.
In the Northern Hemisphere, in the United States, it's warmer during 
the months of June through August and colder during December 
through February, with transitions in between. Spring months tend 
to be rainy, and winter often includes snow. While one week can be 
highly variable, a history of weeks should provide some predictive 
power.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 130 ---
Chapter 4
[ 111 ]
Understanding RNNs
First, let's read in the data from a compressed NumPy array. The 
weather.npz file happens to include the daily data as well, if you 
wish to explore your own model; np.load reads both arrays into a 
dictionary and will set weekly to be our data of interest; num_weeks is 
naturally how many data points we have, here, several decades worth 
of information:
num_weeks = len(weekly)
To format the weeks, we use a Python datetime.datetime object 
reading the storage string in year month day format:
dates = np.array([datetime.datetime.strptime(str(int(d)),
                '%Y%m%d') for d in weekly[:,0]])
We can use the date of each week to assign its season. For this model, 
because we're looking at weather data, we use the meteorological 
season rather than the common astronomical season. Thankfully, this 
is easy to implement with the Python function. Grab the month from 
the datetime object and we can directly compute this season. Spring, 
season zero, is March through May, summer is June through August, 
autumn is September through November, and finally, winter is 
December through February. The following is the simple function that 
just evaluates the month and implements that:
def assign_season(date):
    ''' Assign season based on meteorological season.
        Spring - from Mar 1 to May 31
        Summer - from Jun 1 to Aug 31
        Autumn - from Sep 1 to Nov 30
        Winter - from Dec 1 to Feb 28 (Feb 29 in a leap 
year)
    '''
    month = date.month
    # spring = 0
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 131 ---
Introducing Recurrent Neural Networks
[ 112 ]
    if 3 <= month < 6:
        season = 0
    # summer = 1
    elif 6 <= month < 9:
        season = 1
    # autumn = 2
    elif 9 <= month < 12:
        season = 2
    # winter = 3
    elif month == 12 or month < 3:
        season = 3
    return season
Let's note that we have four seasons and five input variables and, say, 
11 values in our history state:
# There are 4 seasons
num_classes = 4
# and 5 variables
num_inputs = 5
# And a state of 11 numbers
state_size = 11
Now you're ready to compute the labels:
labels = np.zeros([num_weeks,num_classes])
# read and convert to one-hot
for i,d in enumerate(dates):
    labels[i,assign_season(d)] = 1
We do this directly in one-hot format, by making an all-zeroes array 
and putting a one in the position of the assign season.
Cool! You just summarized decades of time with a few commands.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 132 ---
Chapter 4
[ 113 ]
As these input features measure very different things, namely rainfall, 
snow, and temperature, on very different scales, we should take care 
to put them all on the same scale. In the following code, we grab the 
input features, skipping the date column of course, and subtract the 
average to center all features at zero:
# extract and scale training data
train = weekly[:,1:]
train = train - np.average(train,axis=0)
train = train / train.std(axis=0)
Then, we scale each feature by dividing by its standard deviation. 
This accounts for temperatures ranging roughly 0 to 100, while 
rainfall only changes between about 0 and 10. Nice work on the data 
prep! It isn't always fun, but it's a key part of machine learning and 
TensorFlow.
Let's now jump into the TensorFlow model:
# These will be inputs
x = tf.placeholder("float", [None, num_inputs])
# TF likes a funky input to RNN
x_ = tf.reshape(x, [1, num_weeks, num_inputs])
We input our data as normal with a placeholder variable, but then you 
see this strange reshaping of the entire data set into one big tensor. 
Don't worry, this is because we technically have one long, unbroken 
sequence of observations. The y_ variable is just our output:
y_ = tf.placeholder("float", [None,num_classes])
We'll be computing a probability for every week for each season.
The cell variable is the key to the recurrent neural network:
cell = tf.nn.rnn_cell.BasicRNNCell(state_size)
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 133 ---
Introducing Recurrent Neural Networks
[ 114 ]
This tells TensorFlow how the current time step depends on the 
previous. In this case, we'll use a basic RNN cell. So, we're only 
looking back one week at a time. Suppose that it has state size or 11 
values. Feel free to experiment with more exotic cells and different 
state sizes.
To put that cell to use, we'll use tf.nn.dynamic_rnn:
outputs, states = tf.nn.dynamic_rnn(cell,x_,
            dtype=tf.nn.dtypes.float32, initial_state=None)
This intelligently handles the recursion rather than simply unrolling 
all the time steps into a giant computational graph. As we have 
thousands of observations in one sequence, this is critical to attain 
reasonable speed. After the cell, we specify our input x_, then dtype 
to use 32 bits to store decimal numbers in a float, and then the empty 
initial_state. We use the outputs from this to build a simple model. 
From this point on, the model is almost exactly as you would expect 
from any neural network:
We'll multiply the output of the RNN cells, some weights, and add a 
bias to get a score for each class for that week:
W1 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal([state_size,num_
classes],
                          stddev=1./math.sqrt(num_inputs)))
b1 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(0.1,shape=[num_classes]))
# reshape the output for traditional usage
h1 = tf.reshape(outputs,[-1,state_size])
Note that we do need to do this reshaping in order 
to get things in a proper size again, since we have 
one long sequence.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 134 ---
Chapter 4
[ 115 ]
Our categorical cross_entropy loss function and train optimizer 
should be very familiar to you:
# Climb on cross-entropy
cross_entropy = tf.reduce_mean(
     tf.nn.softmax_cross_entropy_with_logits(y + 1e-50,  
                                             y_))
# How we train
train_step = tf.train.GradientDescentOptimizer(0.01
                    ).minimize(cross_entropy)
# Define accuracy
correct_prediction = tf.equal(tf.argmax(y,1), 
                              tf.argmax(y_,1))
accuracy=tf.reduce_mean(tf.cast(correct_prediction, 
"float"))
Great work setting up the TensorFlow model! To train this, we'll use a 
familiar loop:
# Actually train
epochs = 100
train_acc = np.zeros(epochs//10)
for i in tqdm(range(epochs), ascii=True):
    if i % 10 == 0: 
  # Record summary data, and the accuracy
        # Check accuracy on train set
        A = accuracy.eval(feed_dict={x: train, y_: labels})
        train_acc[i//10] = A
    train_step.run(feed_dict={x: train, y_: labels})
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 135 ---
Introducing Recurrent Neural Networks
[ 116 ]
Since this is a fictitious problem, we'll not worry too much about how 
accurate the model really is. The goal here is just to see how an RNN 
works. You can see that it runs just like any TensorFlow model:
If you do look at the accuracy, you can see that it's doing pretty well; 
much better than the 25 percent random guessing, but still has a lot  
to learn.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 136 ---
Chapter 4
[ 117 ]
TensorFlow learn
Just as Scikit-Learn is a convenient interface to traditional machine 
learning algorithms, tf.contrib.learn (https://github.com/
tensorflow/tensorflow/tree/master/tensorflow/contrib/learn/
python/learn), formerly known as skflow, it is a simplified interface 
to build and train DNNs. Now it comes free with every installation of 
TensorFlow!
Even if you're not a fan of the syntax, it's worth looking at TensorFlow 
Learn as the high-level API to TensorFlow. This is because it's 
currently the only officially supported one. But, you should know 
that there are many alternative high-level APIs that may have more 
intuitive interfaces. If interested, refer to Keras (https://keras.io/), 
tf.slim (included with TF), to learn more about TensorFlow-Slim 
refer to https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/tree/master/
tensorflow/contrib/slim or TFLearn (http://tflearn.org/).
Setup
To get started with TensorFlow Learn, you only need to import it. 
We'll also import the estimators function, which will help us craft 
general models:
# TF made EZ
import tensorflow.contrib.learn as learn
from tensorflow.contrib.learn.python.learn.estimators 
import estimator
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 137 ---
Introducing Recurrent Neural Networks
[ 118 ]
We also want to import a few libraries for basic manipulation—grab 
NumPy, math, and Matplotlib (optional). Of note here is sklearn, a 
general-purpose machine learning library that tries to simplify model 
creation, training, and usage. We'll be mainly using it for convenient 
metrics, but you'll find that it has a similar primary interface to Learn:
# Some basics
import numpy as np
import math
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
plt.ion()
# Learn more sklearn
# scikit-learn.org
import sklearn
from sklearn import metrics
Next, we'll read in some data for processing. Since you're familiar 
with the font classification problem, let's stick with modeling that. For 
reproducibility, you can seed NumPy with your favorite number:
# Seed the data
np.random.seed(42)
# Load data
data = np.load('data_with_labels.npz')
train = data['arr_0']/255.
labels = data['arr_1']
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 138 ---
Chapter 4
[ 119 ]
For this exercise, split up your data into a training and validation set; 
np.random.permutation is useful for generating a random order for 
your input data, so let's use that much as we did in earlier modules:
# Split data into training and validation
indices = np.random.permutation(train.shape[0])
valid_cnt = int(train.shape[0] * 0.1)
test_idx, training_idx = indices[:valid_cnt],\
                         indices[valid_cnt:]
test, train = train[test_idx,:],\
              train[training_idx,:]
test_labels, train_labels = labels[test_idx],\
                        labels[training_idx]
Here, tf.contrib.learn can be fickle about what data types it accepts. 
To play nicely, we need to recast our data. The image inputs will 
be np.float32 instead of the default 64 bits. Also, our labels will be 
np.int32 instead of np.uint8, even though this just takes up more 
memory:
train = np.array(train,dtype=np.float32)
test = np.array(test,dtype=np.float32)
train_labels = np.array(train_labels,dtype=np.int32)
test_labels = np.array(test_labels,dtype=np.int32)
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 139 ---
Introducing Recurrent Neural Networks
[ 120 ]
Logistic regression
Let's do a simple logistic regression example. This will be very quick 
and show how learn makes straightforward models incredibly 
simple. First, we must create a listing of variables that our model 
expects as input. You might hope that this could be set with a simple 
argument, but it's actually this unintuitive learn.infer_real_valued_
columns_from_input function. Basically, if you give your input data to 
this function, it will infer how many feature columns you have and 
what shape it should be in. In our linear model, we want to flatten 
our image to be one-dimensional, so we reshape it when inferring the 
features:
# Convert features to learn style
feature_columns = learn.infer_real_valued_columns_from_
input(train.reshape([-1,36*36]))
Now make a new variable called, classifier, and assign to it this 
estimator.SKCompat construction. This is a Scikit-Learn compatibility 
layer, allowing you to use some of the Scikit-Learn modules with your 
TensorFlow model.
Anyway, that's just dressing, what really creates the model is learn.
LinearClassifier. This sets up the model, but does no training. So, it 
only requires a couple of arguments. The first is that funky feature_
columns object, just letting your model know what to expect for input. 
The second, and final required argument is its converse, how many 
output values the model should have? We have five fonts, so set n_
classes = 5. That's the entire model specification!
# Logistic Regression
classifier = estimator.SKCompat(learn.LinearClassifier(
            feature_columns = feature_columns,
            n_classes=5))
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 140 ---
Chapter 4
[ 121 ]
To do the training, it takes just a single line. Call classifier.fit with 
your input data (reshaped, of course), output labels (note that these 
don't have to be one-hot format), and a few more parameters. The 
steps argument determines how many batches the model will look 
at, that is, how many steps to take of the optimization algorithm. 
The batch_size argument is, as usual, the number of data points to 
use within an optimization step. So, you can compute the number of 
epochs as the number of steps times the size of batches divided by 
the number of data points in your training set. This may seem a little 
counterintuitive, but at least it's a quick specification, and you could 
easily write a helper function to convert between steps and epochs:
# One line training
# steps is number of total batches
# steps*batch_size/len(train) = num_epochs
classifier.fit(train.reshape([-1,36*36]),
               train_labels,
               steps=1024,
               batch_size=32)
To evaluate our model, we'll use metrics of sklearn as usual. But the 
output of a basic learn model prediction is now a dictionary, within 
which are precomputed class labels, as well as the probabilities and 
logits. To extract the class labels, use the key, classes:
# sklearn compatible accuracy
test_probs = classifier.predict(test.reshape([-1,36*36]))
sklearn.metrics.accuracy_score(test_labels,
        test_probs['classes'])
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 141 ---
Introducing Recurrent Neural Networks
[ 122 ]
DNNs
While there are better ways to implement purely linear models, 
simplifying DNNs with a varying number of layers is where 
TensorFlow and learn really shine.
We'll use the same input features, but now we'll build a DNN with 
two hidden layers, first with 10 neurons and then 5. Creating this 
model will only take one line of Python code; it could not be easier.
The specification is similar to our linear model. We still need 
SKCompat, but now it's learn.DNNClassifier. For arguments, there's one 
additional requirement: the number of neurons on each hidden layer, 
passed as a list. This one simple argument, which really captures the 
essence of a DNN model, puts the power of deep learning at your 
fingertips.
There are some optional arguments to this as well, but we'll only 
mention optimizer. This allows you to choose between different 
common optimizer routines, such as Stochastic Gradient Descent 
(SGD) or Adam. Very convenient!
# Dense neural net
classifier = estimator.SKCompat(learn.DNNClassifier(
            feature_columns = feature_columns,
            hidden_units=[10,5],
            n_classes=5,
            optimizer='Adam'))
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 142 ---
Chapter 4
[ 123 ]
The training and evaluation occur exactly as they do with the linear 
model. Just for demonstration, we can also look at the confusion 
matrix created by this model. Note that we haven't trained much, so 
this model may not compete with our earlier creations using pure 
TensorFlow:
# Same training call
classifier.fit(train.reshape([-1,36*36]),
               train_labels,
               steps=1024,
               batch_size=32)
# simple accuracy
test_probs = classifier.predict(test.reshape([-1,36*36]))
sklearn.metrics.accuracy_score(test_labels,
        test_probs['classes'])
# confusion is easy
train_probs = classifier.predict(train.reshape([-1,36*36]))
conf = metrics.confusion_matrix(train_labels,
        train_probs['classes'])
print(conf)
Convolutional Neural Networks 
(CNNs) in Learn
CNNs power some of the most successful machine learning models 
out there, so we'd hope that learn supports them. In fact, the library 
supports using arbitrary TensorFlow code! You'll find that this is a 
blessing and a curse. Having arbitrary code available means you can 
use learn to do almost anything you can do with pure TensorFlow, 
giving maximum flexibility. But the general interface tends to make 
the code more difficult to read and write.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 143 ---
Introducing Recurrent Neural Networks
[ 124 ]
If you find yourself fighting with the interface to make some 
moderately complex model work in learn, it may be time to use pure 
TensorFlow or switch to another API.
To demonstrate this generality, we'll build a simple CNN to attack 
our font classification problem. It will have one convolutional layer 
with four filters, followed by a flattening to a hidden dense layer with 
five neurons, and finally ending with the densely connected output 
logistic regression.
To get started, let's do a couple more imports. We want access to 
generic TensorFlow, but we also need the layers module to call 
TensorFlow layers in a way that learn expects:
# Access general TF functions
import tensorflow as tf
import tensorflow.contrib.layers as layers
The generic interface forces us to write a function which creates the 
operations for our model. You may find this tedious, but that's the 
price of flexibility.
Start a new function called conv_learn with three arguments. X will be 
the input data, y will be the output labels (not yet one-hot encoded), 
and mode determines whether you are training or predicting. Note 
that you'll never directly interact with this function; you merely pass 
it to a constructor that expects these arguments. So, if you wanted to 
vary the number or type of layers, you would need to write a new 
model function (or another function that would generate such a model 
function):
def conv_learn(X, y, mode):
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 144 ---
Chapter 4
[ 125 ]
As this is a convolutional model, we need to make sure our data is 
formatted correctly. In particular, this means reshaping the input to 
have not only the correct two-dimensional shape (36x36), but also 
1 color channel (the last dimension). This is part of a TensorFlow 
computation graph, so we use tf.reshape, not np.reshape. Likewise, 
because this is a generic graph, we want our outputs to be one-hot 
encoded, and tf.one_hot provides that functionality. Note that we 
have to describe how many classes there are (5), what a set value 
should be (1), and what an unset value should be (0):
    # Ensure our images are 2d 
    X = tf.reshape(X, [-1, 36, 36, 1])
    # We'll need these in one-hot format
    y = tf.one_hot(tf.cast(y, tf.int32), 5, 1, 0)
Now the real fun begins. To specify the convolutional layer, let's 
initialize a new scope, conv_layer. This will just make sure we don't 
clobber any variables. layers.convolutional provides the basic 
machinery. It accepts our input (a TensorFlow tensor), a number 
of outputs (really the number of kernels or filters), and the size of 
the kernel, here, a 5x5 window. For an activation function, let's 
use Rectified Linear, which we can call from the main TensorFlow 
module. This gives us our basic convolutional output, h1.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 145 ---
Introducing Recurrent Neural Networks
[ 126 ]
Max pooling actually occurs exactly as it does in regular TensorFlow, 
neither easier nor harder. The function, tf.nn.max_pool with the usual 
kernel size and strides works as expected. Save this into p1:
    # conv layer will compute 4 kernels for each 5x5 patch
    with tf.variable_scope('conv_layer'):
        # 5x5 convolution, pad with zeros on edges
        h1 = layers.convolution2d(X, num_outputs=4,
                kernel_size=[5, 5], 
                activation_fn=tf.nn.relu)
        # 2x2 Max pooling, no padding on edges
        p1 = tf.nn.max_pool(h1, ksize=[1, 2, 2, 1],
                strides=[1, 2, 2, 1], padding='VALID')
Now, to flatten the tensor at this point, we need to compute the 
number of elements in our would-be one-dimensional tensor. One 
way to do this is by multiplying all the dimension values (except 
the batch_size, which occupies the first position) together. This 
particular operation can occur outside the computation graph, so we 
use np.product. Once supplied with the total size, we can pass it to 
tf.reshape to reslice the intermediate tensor in the graph:
    # Need to flatten conv output for use in dense layer
    p1_size = np.product(
              [s.value for s in p1.get_shape()[1:]])
    p1f = tf.reshape(p1, [-1, p1_size ])
Now it's time for the densely connected layer. The layers module 
makes an appearance again, this time with the fully_connected 
function (another name for a dense layer). This takes the previous 
layer, the number of neurons, and the activation function, again 
supplied by general TensorFlow.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 146 ---
Chapter 4
[ 127 ]
For demonstration purposes, let's add a dropout here as well; layers.
dropout provides the interface. As expected, it needs the previous 
layer as well as a probability of keeping a given node output. But it 
also needs this mode argument that we passed into the original conv_
learn function. All this complex interface is saying is to only drop 
nodes during training. If you can handle that, we're almost through 
the model!
     # densely connected layer with 32 neurons and dropout
     h_fc1 = layers.fully_connected(p1f,
             5,
             activation_fn=tf.nn.relu)
     drop = layers.dropout(h_fc1, keep_prob=0.5,
     is_training=mode == tf.contrib.learn.ModeKeys.TRAIN)
Now for some bad news. We need to write out the final linear 
model, loss function, and optimization parameters manually. This 
is something that can change from version to version, as it used to 
be easier on the user for some circumstances, but more difficult to 
maintain the backend. But let's persevere; it's really not too arduous.
Another layers.fully_connected layer creates the final logistic 
regression. Note that our activation here should be None, as it is 
purely linear. What handles the logistic side of the equation is the loss 
function. Thankfully, TensorFlow supplies a softmax_cross_entropy 
function, so we don't need to write this out manually. Given inputs, 
outputs, and a loss function, we can apply an optimization routine. 
Again, layers.optimize_loss minimizes the pain, as well as the 
function in question. Pass it your loss node, optimizer (as a string), 
and a learning rate. Further, give it this get_global_step() parameter 
to ensure the optimizer handles decay properly.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 147 ---
Introducing Recurrent Neural Networks
[ 128 ]
Finally, our function needs to return a few things. One, it should 
report the predicted classes. Next, it must supply the loss node output 
itself. And, finally, the training node must be available to external 
routines to actually execute everything:
    logits = layers.fully_connected(drop, 5,  
                                    activation_fn=None)
    loss = tf.losses.softmax_cross_entropy(y, logits)
    # Setup the training function manually
    train_op = layers.optimize_loss(
        loss,
        tf.contrib.framework.get_global_step(),
        optimizer='Adam',
        learning_rate=0.01)
    return tf.argmax(logits, 1), loss, train_op
While specifying the model may be cumbersome, using it is just as 
easy as before. Now, use learn.Estimator, the most generic routine, 
and pass in your model function for model_fn. And don't forget the 
SKCompat!
Training works exactly as before, just note that we don't need to 
reshape the inputs here, since that's handled inside the function.
To predict with the model, you can simply call classifier.predict, 
but note that you get your first argument returned by the function as 
output. We opted to return the class, but it would also be reasonable 
to return the probabilities from the softmax function as well. That's all 
regarding the basics of the tf.contrib.learn models!
# Use generic estimator with our function
classifier = estimator.SKCompat(
         learn.Estimator(
         model_fn=conv_learn))
classifier.fit(train,train_labels,
                steps=1024,
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 148 ---
Chapter 4
[ 129 ]
                batch_size=32)
# simple accuracy
metrics.accuracy_score(test_labels,classifier.
predict(test))
Extracting weights
While training and prediction are the core uses of models, 
it's important to be able to study the inside of models as well. 
Unfortunately, this API makes it difficult to extract parameter 
weights. Thankfully, this section provides some simple examples of a 
weakly documented feature to get the weights out of the tf.contrib.
learn models.
To pull out the weights of a model, we really need to get the value 
from certain points in the underlying TensorFlow computation graph. 
TensorFlow provides many ways to do this, but the first problem is 
just figuring out what your variable of interest is called.
A list of variable names in your learn graph is available, but it's 
buried under the hidden attribute, _estimator. Calling classifier._
estimator.get_variable_names() returns a list of strings of your 
various names. Many of these will be uninteresting, such as the 
OptimizeLoss entries. In our case, we're looking for the conv_layer and 
fully_connected elements:
# See layer names
print(classifier._estimator.get_variable_names())
['OptimizeLoss/beta1_power',
 'OptimizeLoss/beta2_power',
 'OptimizeLoss/conv_layer/Conv/biases/Adam',
 'OptimizeLoss/conv_layer/Conv/biases/Adam_1',
 'OptimizeLoss/conv_layer/Conv/weights/Adam',
 'OptimizeLoss/conv_layer/Conv/weights/Adam_1',
 'OptimizeLoss/fully_connected/biases/Adam',
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 149 ---
Introducing Recurrent Neural Networks
[ 130 ]
 'OptimizeLoss/fully_connected/biases/Adam_1',
 'OptimizeLoss/fully_connected/weights/Adam',
 'OptimizeLoss/fully_connected/weights/Adam_1',
 'OptimizeLoss/fully_connected_1/biases/Adam',
 'OptimizeLoss/fully_connected_1/biases/Adam_1',
 'OptimizeLoss/fully_connected_1/weights/Adam',
 'OptimizeLoss/fully_connected_1/weights/Adam_1',
 'OptimizeLoss/learning_rate',
 'conv_layer/Conv/biases',
 'conv_layer/Conv/weights',
 'fully_connected/biases',
 'fully_connected/weights',
 'fully_connected_1/biases',
 'fully_connected_1/weights',
 'global_step']
Figuring out which entry is the layer you're looking for can be a 
challenge. Here, conv_layer is obviously from our convolutional layer. 
However, you see two fully_connected elements, one is our dense 
layer at flattening, and one is the output weights. It turns out that 
they are named in the order specified. We created the dense hidden 
layer first, so it gets the basic fully_connected name, while the output 
layer came last, so it has a _1 tacked onto it. If you're unsure, you can 
always look at the shapes of the weight arrays, depending on the 
shape of your model.
To actually get at the weights, it's another arcane call. This time, 
classifier._estimator.get_variable_value, supplied with the variable 
name string, produces a NumPy array with the relevant weights. Try 
it out for the convolutional weights and biases, as well as the dense 
layers:
# Convolutional Layer Weights
print(classifier._estimator.get_variable_value(
        'conv_layer/Conv/weights'))
print(classifier._estimator.get_variable_value(
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 150 ---
Chapter 4
[ 131 ]
        'conv_layer/Conv/biases'))
# Dense Layer
print(classifier._estimator.get_variable_value(
        'fully_connected/weights'))
# Logistic weights
print(classifier._estimator.get_variable_value(
        'fully_connected_1/weights'))
Now, armed with the esoteric knowledge of how to peer inside 
tf.contrib.learn neural networks, you're more than capable with 
this high-level API. While it is convenient in many situations, it can 
be cumbersome in others. Never be afraid to pause and consider 
switching to another library; use the right machine learning tool for 
the right machine learning job.
Summary
You learned a lot in this chapter, going from simply understanding 
RNNs to implementing them in a new TensorFlow model. We also 
looked at a simple interface to TensorFlow called TensorFlow Learn. 
We also walked through DNNs, and understood CNNs and extracting 
weights in detail.
In the next chapter, we will wrap up our look at TensorFlow, looking 
at how far we've come and where you can go from here.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 151 ---
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 152 ---
[ 133 ]
Wrapping Up
In the previous chapter, we learned about another interface to 
TensorFlow and RNN models. This chapter will wrap up our look at 
TensorFlow, looking at how far we've come and where you can go 
from here. First, we'll review our progress on the font classification 
problem, then we'll briefly look at TensorFlow beyond deep learning 
and see where it will go in the future. At the end of the chapter, you 
will be familiar with the following concepts:
•	 Research evaluation
•	 A quick review of all the models
•	 The future of TensorFlow
•	 Some more TensorFlow projects
Let's now begin by looking at research evaluation in detail.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 153 ---
Wrapping Up
[ 134 ]
Research evaluation
In this section, we'll compare our models in the font classification 
problem. First, we should remind ourselves what the data looks like. 
Then, we'll inspect the simple logistic dense neural network and 
convolutional neural network models. You've come a long way in 
modeling with TensorFlow.
Before we move on from deep learning, however, let's look back and 
see how models compare on the font classification problem. First, 
let's look at the data again, so we don't lose sight of the problem. In 
fact, let's look at one image that includes all the letters and digits from 
every font, just to see what shapes we have:
# One look at a letter/digit from each font
# Best to reshape as one large array, then plot
all_letters = np.zeros([5*36,62*36])
for font in range(5):
    for letter in range(62):
        all_letters[font*36:(font+1)*36,
                letter*36:(letter+1)*36] = \
                train[9*(font*62 + letter)]
This would be a lot of subplots for Matplotlib to handle. So, we'll 
make a new array, 5 images tall, 5 fonts times 36 pixels, and 62 images 
wide, 62 letters or digits times 36 pixels. After allocating a zero array, 
we can stack the training images into it. Fonts and letters act as indices 
and we set 36x36 values at a time in the big array. Note that we have 
9 in the train array here, because we're only taking one type of jitter 
each letter.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 154 ---
Chapter 5
[ 135 ]
Let's take a look with a quick call to pcolormesh:
plt.pcolormesh(all_letters,
        cmap=plt.cm.gray)
As you can see, we have the entire alphabet, upper and lowercase, 
as well as digits 0 to 9. Some of the fonts look like others, while font 
0 is kind of in its own world, to human eyes anyway. Each font has 
interesting stylistic properties that we hope our model picks up on.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 155 ---
Wrapping Up
[ 136 ]
A quick review of all the models
Let's recap each of the models we built, to model these fonts and some 
of their strengths and weaknesses:
At a glance, recall that we slowly built up more complicated models 
and took into account the structure of the data to improve our 
accuracy.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 156 ---
Chapter 5
[ 137 ]
The logistic regression model
First, we started with a simple logistic regression model:
This has 36x36 pixels plus 1 bias times 5 classes total weights, or 6,485 
parameters that we need to train. After 1,000 training epochs, this 
model achieved about 40 percent validation accuracy. Your results 
may vary. This is relatively poor, but the model has some advantages.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 157 ---
Wrapping Up
[ 138 ]
Let's glance back at the code:
# These will be inputs
## Input pixels, flattened
x = tf.placeholder("float", [None, 1296])
## Known labels
y_ = tf.placeholder("float", [None,5])
# Variables
W = tf.Variable(tf.zeros([1296,5]))
b = tf.Variable(tf.zeros([5]))
# Just initialize
sess.run(tf.initialize_all_variables())
# Define model
y = tf.nn.softmax(tf.matmul(x,W) + b)
The simplicity of logistic regression means we can directly see and 
compute how each pixel affects the class probabilities. This simplicity 
also makes the model relatively quick to converge in training, and of 
course, quick to program, as it takes only a few lines of TensorFlow 
code.
The single hidden layer neural 
network model
Our next model was a single hidden layer densely connected neural 
network with a final Softmax activation layer, equivalent to logistic 
regression:
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 158 ---
Chapter 5
[ 139 ]
This model has 36x36 pixels plus 1 bias times 128 nodes plus 128 
hidden nodes plus 1 bias times 5 classes total weights, or 166,661 
parameters. The hidden layer uses a sigmoid activation function to 
achieve nonlinearity. After 5,000 epochs, this tangle of parameters 
reached about 60 percent validation accuracy, a considerable 
improvement. The cost for this improvement, however, was a huge 
increase in the number of parameters in computational complexity, 
which you can get a sense of just from the code:
# These will be inputs
## Input pixels, flattened
x = tf.placeholder("float", [None, 1296])
## Known labels
y_ = tf.placeholder("float", [None,5])
# Hidden layer
num_hidden = 128
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 159 ---
Wrapping Up
[ 140 ]
W1 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal([1296, num_hidden],
                                stddev=1./math.sqrt(1296)))
b1 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(0.1,shape=[num_hidden]))
h1 = tf.sigmoid(tf.matmul(x,W1) + b1)
# Output Layer
W2 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal([num_hidden, 5],
                                   stddev=1./math.sqrt(5)))
b2 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(0.1,shape=[5]))
# Just initialize
sess.run(tf.initialize_all_variables())
# Define model
y = tf.nn.softmax(tf.matmul(h1,W2) + b2)
We can no longer have a simple function of individual pixels to class 
probabilities. But this required only a few more lines of coding and 
does perform better.
Deep neural network
The deep neural network took this one step further, consisting of 128 
nodes on the first layer, feeding into 32 nodes on a subsequent layer 
before feeding into Softmax for a total of 170,309 parameters; not that 
many more really:
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 160 ---
Chapter 5
[ 141 ]
After 25,000 epochs, we achieved a marginal improvement of 63 
percent validation accuracy:
# These will be inputs
## Input pixels, flattened
x = tf.placeholder("float", [None, 1296])
## Known labels
y_ = tf.placeholder("float", [None,5])
# Hidden layer 1
num_hidden1 = 128
W1 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal([1296,num_hidden1],
                               stddev=1./math.sqrt(1296)))
b1 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(0.1,shape=[num_hidden1]))
h1 = tf.sigmoid(tf.matmul(x,W1) + b1)
# Hidden Layer 2
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 161 ---
Wrapping Up
[ 142 ]
num_hidden2 = 32
W2 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal([num_hidden1,
            num_hidden2],stddev=2./math.sqrt(num_hidden1)))
b2 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(0.2,shape=[num_hidden2]))
h2 = tf.sigmoid(tf.matmul(h1,W2) + b2)
# Output Layer
W3 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal([num_hidden2, 5],
                                   stddev=1./math.sqrt(5)))
b3 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(0.1,shape=[5]))
# Just initialize
sess.run(tf.initialize_all_variables())
# Define model
y = tf.nn.softmax(tf.matmul(h2,W3) + b3)
A deeper still model might have done better, but this demonstrated 
some of the strength of deep learning, handling considerable 
nonlinearity, and this again took marginal extra programming effort.
Convolutional neural network
The densely connected neural networks worked reasonably well, but 
fonts are defined by their style, not specific pixels:
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 162 ---
Chapter 5
[ 143 ]
Recurring local features should be big clues to your model. We 
captured some of these local features with convolutional neural 
networks. We started with one convolutional layer, a 5x5 window 
computing four features with four extra biased terms extracted 
interesting local parameters, using a rectified linear unit. We followed 
this with a 2x2 max pooling layer applied to each feature, reducing 
the number of intermediate values to 18x18x4 plus 1 bias. Flattening 
this out to 1,297 numbers and putting into 32 nodes of a dense neural 
network followed by Softmax activations finish the model with a total 
of 41,773 parameters.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 163 ---
Wrapping Up
[ 144 ]
That's a nice cutdown on the overall size of the model, although the 
implementation and code takes more effort than before:
# Conv layer 1
num_filters = 4
winx = 5
winy = 5
W1 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal(
    [winx, winy, 1 , num_filters],
    stddev=1./math.sqrt(winx*winy)))
b1 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(0.1,
                shape=[num_filters]))
# 5x5 convolution, pad with zeros on edges
xw = tf.nn.conv2d(x_im, W1,
                  strides=[1, 1, 1, 1],
                  padding='SAME')
h1 = tf.nn.relu(xw + b1)
# 2x2 Max pooling, no padding on edges
p1 = tf.nn.max_pool(h1, ksize=[1, 2, 2, 1],
        strides=[1, 2, 2, 1], padding='VALID')
# Need to flatten convolutional output for use in dense 
layer
p1_size = np.product(
          [s.value for s in p1.get_shape()[1:]])
p1f = tf.reshape(p1, [-1, p1_size ])
# Dense layer
num_hidden = 32
W2 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal(
     [p1_size, num_hidden],
     stddev=2./math.sqrt(p1_size)))
b2 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(0.2,
     shape=[num_hidden]))
h2 = tf.nn.relu(tf.matmul(p1f,W2) + b2)
# Output Layer
W3 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal(
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 164 ---
Chapter 5
[ 145 ]
     [num_hidden, 5],
     stddev=1./math.sqrt(num_hidden)))
b3 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(0.1,shape=[5]))
keep_prob = tf.placeholder("float")
h2_drop = tf.nn.dropout(h2, keep_prob)
After training for just 5000 epochs, we cleared 68 percent accuracy. We 
did have to code up the convolution, but this wasn't so challenging. 
By applying a little knowledge to the structure of the problem, we 
simultaneously reduced the model size, yet increased the accuracy. 
Nice job on that one!
Deep convolutional neural network
Combining the deep and convolutional approach, we finally created a 
model with several convolutional layers:
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 165 ---
Wrapping Up
[ 146 ]
Though we used a smaller 3x3 window, we computed 16 filters 
on the first convolutional layer. After a 2x2 max pooling, we did it 
again with another 3x3 window and 4 filters on the pooled values. 
Another pooling layer again fed into 32 densely connected neurons 
and Softmax output. Because we have more convolution in pooling 
before feeding into a dense neural network, we actually have fewer 
(10,765 to be exact) parameters in this model, almost as few as the 
logistic regression model. Yet, with 6,000 epochs, the model topped 
80 percent validation accuracy, a testament to your new deep learning 
and TensorFlow skills.
# Conv layer 1
num_filters1 = 16
winx1 = 3
winy1 = 3
W1 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal(
    [winx1, winy1, 1 , num_filters1],
    stddev=1./math.sqrt(winx1*winy1)))
b1 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(0.1,
                shape=[num_filters1]))
# 5x5 convolution, pad with zeros on edges
xw = tf.nn.conv2d(x_im, W1,
                  strides=[1, 1, 1, 1],
                  padding='SAME')
h1 = tf.nn.relu(xw + b1)
# 2x2 Max pooling, no padding on edges
p1 = tf.nn.max_pool(h1, ksize=[1, 2, 2, 1],
        strides=[1, 2, 2, 1], padding='VALID')
# Conv layer 2
num_filters2 = 4
winx2 = 3
winy2 = 3
W2 = tf.Variable(tf.truncated_normal(
    [winx2, winy2, num_filters1, num_filters2],
    stddev=1./math.sqrt(winx2*winy2)))
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 166 ---
Chapter 5
[ 147 ]
b2 = tf.Variable(tf.constant(0.1,
     shape=[num_filters2]))
# 3x3 convolution, pad with zeros on edges
p1w2 = tf.nn.conv2d(p1, W2,
       strides=[1, 1, 1, 1], padding='SAME')
h1 = tf.nn.relu(p1w2 + b2)
# 2x2 Max pooling, no padding on edges
p2 = tf.nn.max_pool(h1, ksize=[1, 2, 2, 1],
     strides=[1, 2, 2, 1], padding='VALID')
The future of TensorFlow
In this section, we will observe how TensorFlow is changing, who 
is starting to use TensorFlow, and how you can make an impact 
contributing to it.
Since it was released in late 2015, TensorFlow has already seen several 
more releases:
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 167 ---
Wrapping Up
[ 148 ]
TensorFlow is constantly being updated. Although it isn't an official 
Google product, it is also open source and hosted on GitHub. At the 
time of writing, TensorFlow is at release 1.2. The most recent release 
added distributed computing capabilities. These are beyond the scope 
of this book, but generally speaking, they allow computation across 
multiple GPUs on multiple machines for maximum parallelization. 
Under heavy development, more features are always just around the 
corner. TensorFlow is becoming more popular every day.
Several software companies have released machine learning 
frameworks recently, but TensorFlow stands out in adoption. 
Internally, Google is practicing what they preach. Their acclaimed 
DeepMind team has switched to using TensorFlow.
Further, many universities with machine learning or data science 
programs use TensorFlow, both for coursework and research projects. 
Of course, you've already used TensorFlow on a research project, so 
you are ahead of the game.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 168 ---
Chapter 5
[ 149 ]
Some more TensorFlow projects
Finally, other companies, large and small, are picking up TensorFlow. 
Now that you are a TensorFlow practitioner, the only limits are your 
available problems and your computing resources. Here's a couple of 
ideas about what you could tackle next with TensorFlow:
•	 Leaf classification from images:
Plant leaves, like fonts, have similar styles within a species. 
Can you adapt the models you built in this course to identify a 
species using just an image?
•	 Road sign identification with dashcam video:
Suppose you got a lot of dashcam footage from a long road trip. 
Road signs on the highway can give you a lot of information, 
such as where you are and how fast you should be going. Can 
you build a series of TensorFlow models to find, say, the speed 
limit in the footage?
•	 Transportation research predicting travel times:
Also, commuting takes too long, no matter how close you live 
to work. Given current conditions such as traffic and weather, 
you should be able to build a regression-based model to predict 
your travel time.
•	 Matching algorithm, as for finding a compatible date:
Finally, one start-up is exploring using TensorFlow for a 
matching algorithm. Don't be surprised if, in the future, an 
algorithm gets you a date.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 169 ---
Wrapping Up
[ 150 ]
There are too many neat TensorFlow-based projects to list them all. 
But, chances are, you'll find something related to your interests, and 
if not, that's the perfect place to contribute. There are many machine 
learning libraries, but TensorFlow is here to stay.
Though this book has focused on deep learning, TensorFlow is a 
general graph computational library.
Deep neural networks are really a sliver of data modeling that 
TensorFlow happens to handle very well. But, as you saw in the 
Simple Computations section of Chapter 1, Getting Started, on simple 
computations, any operation you can specify as a graph, you can 
do in TensorFlow. One practical example was an implementation of 
k-means clustering in TensorFlow.
More generally, operations that vectorize well and require some kind 
of training may benefit from TensorFlow usage. All this is to say that 
you are the future of TensorFlow!
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 170 ---
Chapter 5
[ 151 ]
TensorFlow is open source and changing all the time. So, you can 
contribute new features easily on GitHub. These could be highly 
complex new model types or simple documentation updates.
All changes can improve the library. The rising popularity of 
TensorFlow means that you are one of the earliest professionals to 
master it. You've got an edge in your machine learning career or 
research. And because it's more than deep learning, whatever field 
you're in, TensorFlow is probably applicable to some aspect of it.
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 171 ---
Wrapping Up
[ 152 ]
Summary
In this chapter, we reviewed how we climbed from a humble logistic 
regression model to flying high with a deep convolutional neural 
network to classify fonts. We also discussed the future of TensorFlow. 
We finally recalled our TensorFlow models for font classification, 
reviewing their accuracy. We also took some time to discuss where 
TensorFlow is headed. Congratulations! You're now well-versed in 
TensorFlow. You've applied it to multiple research problems and 
models in this series, and learned how it's widely applicable.
The next step is to deploy TensorFlow in one of your own projects. 
Happy modeling!
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 172 ---
[ 153 ]
Index
A
activation functions  36
B
backpropagation  42, 44
basic neural networks
about  34
log function  35, 36
sigmoid function  36-38
C
CoCalc
reference link  6
TensorFlow, installing via  6-10
computations
defining  11
intermediate values, submitting  16, 17
intermediate values, viewing  16, 17
on tensors  12, 13
performing  13, 14
scalars, defining  11, 12
tensors, defining  11, 12
convolutional and pooling layer combo
adding  86, 87
convolutional layer
about  64-67
multiple features, extracting  68, 69
convolutional layer application
about  70-78
implementing  70
Convolutional Neural Networks  
(CNNs)
about  63, 123-128, 142-145
fonts, classifying   88-94
D
deep CNN
about  86
convolutional and pooling layer combo, 
adding  86, 87
deep convolutional neural  
network  145, 146
deeper CNN
conclusion  99-104
layers, adding  94-98
Dense Neural Network (DNN)
about  50, 107, 122, 140-142
CNNs  123-128
weights, extracting  129-131
E
epoch  27
F
font classification dataset  18-21
H
hyper parameter optimization  53
I
installation page, TensorFlow  3
J
Jupyter  8
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 173 ---
[ 154 ]
K
Keras
URL  117
L
log function  35, 36
logistic regression
about  17, 22, 120
implementing  23
logistic regression model
about  137, 138
weights, viewing of  48, 49
logistic regression model building
about  17
font classification dataset  18-21
logistic regression training
about  26
loss function, developing  26
model accuracy, evaluating  28-32
model, training  27
M
main page, TensorFlow  2
models
about  136
convolutional neural network  142-145
deep convolutional neural  
network  145, 146
deep neural network  140-142
logistic regression model  137, 138
single hidden layer neural network 
model  138, 140
multiple hidden layer model
about  50
exploring  51-55
results  56
multiple hidden layers graph  56-62
N
neuron  36
P
pip
TensorFlow, installing via  4, 5
pooling layer application  83, 86
pooling layers
about  78
max pooling layers  78-82
R
Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs)
about  107-116
using  110
weights, modeling  109
research evaluation  134
S
same padding  66
scalars
defining  11, 12
sigmoid function  36, 37
single hidden layer model
about  39-47
exploring  40, 41
single hidden layer neural network 
model  138, 140
Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD)  122
T
TensorFlow
about  1
future  147, 148
installation page  3
installing  2
installing, via CoCalc  6-10
installing, via pip  4, 5
main page  2
projects  149, 150
TensorFlow learn
about  117
logistic regression  120
reference link  117
setup  117, 118
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.

--- Strana 174 ---
[ 155 ]
TensorFlow model
building  24
TensorFlow Slim
reference link  117
tensors
computations on  12, 13
defining  11, 12
V
variable tensors  14, 15
W
weights
extracting  129, 130
modeling  109
wheel file  3
Hands-On Deep Learning with TensorFlow : This Book Is Your Guide to Exploring the Possibilities in the Field of Deep Learning, Making Use of Google's TensorFlow. You Will Learn about
Copyright © 2017. Packt Publishing, Limited. All rights reserved.
