
--- Strana 1 ---

--- Strana 2 ---
Mohammad Nauman
Keras 3
The Comprehensive Guide to Deep Learning with the Keras API
and Python
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 3 ---
Imprint
This e-book is a publication many contributed to, specifically:
Editor   Rachel Gibson
Acquisitions Editor   Hareem Shafi
Copyeditor   Julie McNamee
Cover Design   Graham Geary
Photo Credit    Shutterstock: 1305456070/© optimarc; iStockphoto:
2153711283/© shulz
Production E-Book   Kelly O’Callaghan
Typesetting E-Book   III-satz, Husby (Germany)
We hope that you liked this e-book. Please share your feedback with
us and read the Service Pages to find out how to contact us.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Control Number:
2025034926

--- Strana 4 ---
© 2026 by:
Rheinwerk Publishing, Inc.
2 Heritage Drive, Suite 305
Quincy, MA 02171
USA
info@rheinwerk-publishing.com
+1.781.228.5070
  Represented in the E.U. by:
Rheinwerk Verlag GmbH
Rheinwerkallee 4
53227 Bonn
Germany
service@rheinwerk-verlag.de
+49 (0) 228 42150-0
ISBN 978-1-4932-2739-6 (print)
ISBN 978-1-4932-2740-2 (e-book)
ISBN 978-1-4932-2741-9 (print and e-book)
1st edition 2026
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 5 ---
Notes on Usage
This e-book is protected by copyright. By purchasing this e-book,
you have agreed to accept and adhere to the copyrights. You are
entitled to use this e-book for personal purposes. You may print and
copy it, too, but also only for personal use. Sharing an electronic or
printed copy with others, however, is not permitted, neither as a
whole nor in parts. Of course, making them available on the internet
or in a company network is illegal as well.
For detailed and legally binding usage conditions, please refer to the
section Legal Notes.
 

--- Strana 6 ---
Notes on the Screen Presentation
You are reading this e-book in a file format (EPUB or Mobi) that
makes the book content adaptable to the display options of your
reading device and to your personal needs. That’s a great thing; but
unfortunately not every device displays the content in the same way
and the rendering of features such as pictures and tables or
hyphenation can lead to difficulties. This e-book was optimized for
the presentation on as many common reading devices as possible.
If you want to zoom in on a figure (especially in iBooks on the iPad),
tap the respective figure once. By tapping once again, you return to
the previous screen. You can find more recommendations on the
customization of the screen layout on the Service Pages.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 7 ---
Table of Contents
Notes on Usage
1   Introduction
1.1   Overview of Deep Learning
1.1.1   The Success of Deep Learning
1.1.2   The Two Pillars Supporting These Breakthroughs
1.1.3   Why Now?
1.2   Why Keras
1.3   The Structure of This Book
1.3.1   Text Boxes
1.4   How to Use This Book
1.4.1   Why Keras Installation Comes Later
1.4.2   Suggested Reading Strategy

--- Strana 8 ---
2   Introduction to the Core of
Machine Learning
2.1   What Is Machine Learning?
2.1.1   Helping the Machine Recognize Digits
2.1.2   The Outdated Method—Rule-Based Learning
2.1.3   Case Study in Machine Learning Code
2.1.4   Structuring the Learning Process
2.1.5   Analyzing the Machine’s Learning Process
2.1.6   Lessons Learned from the Code Case Study
2.2   Types of Machine Learning
2.2.1   Supervised Learning
2.2.2   Unsupervised Learning
2.3   The Magic Sauce: Reinforcement Learning
2.3.1   The Building Blocks of Reinforcement Learning
2.3.2   Key Applications for Reinforcement Learning
2.3.3   Challenges in Implementing Reinforcement
Learning
2.4   Basics of Neural Networks

--- Strana 9 ---
2.4.1   Core Components of Neural Networks
2.4.2   The Unintuitive Process of Learning
2.4.3   Clearing Up Some Misconceptions
2.5   Setting Up Your Environment
2.6   Summary
3   Fundamentals of Gradient
Descent
3.1   Understanding Gradient Descent
3.1.1   The Basic Setup
3.1.2   Formalizing the Process: Training Phase
3.1.3   From Training to Deployment: Making It Work in
the Real World
3.1.4   The Process of Learning
3.1.5   Finding the Best Parameters: Minimizing the Loss
3.1.6   Lifting the Assumptions of a Single Input Feature
3.1.7   Higher Dimensions in Gradient Descent
3.2   Types of Gradient Descent: Batch,
Stochastic, Mini-Batch

--- Strana 10 ---
3.2.1   Contour Plots for Visualization of Gradient Descent
3.2.2   Improving the Efficiency of Batch Gradient Descent
3.2.3   A Paradox in the Use of Stochastic Gradient
Descent
3.3   Learning Rate and Optimization
3.4   Implementing Gradient Descent in Code
3.4.1   Gradient Descent from Scratch
3.4.2   Gradient Descent Using Keras
3.5   Summary
4   Classification Through
Gradient Descent
4.1   Classification Basics
4.1.1   Classification Problem Setup
4.1.2   First Attempt Using Gradient Descent
4.1.3   Second Attempt: Fixing the Issues in the First
Attempt
4.1.4   Third Attempt: Fixing the Loss Function
4.1.5   Squishing Functions and Decision Boundaries

--- Strana 11 ---
4.1.6   Learning Process Summary
4.2   Nonlinear Relationships and Neural
Networks
4.2.1   Feature Transformations
4.2.2   The Kernel Trick, Logistic Regression, and All of
Machine Learning
4.3   Binary vs. Multi-Class Classification
4.3.1   The One-vs-All Approach
4.3.2   The Softmax Classifier
4.4   Loss Functions: Cross-Entropy
4.4.1   Categorical Cross-Entropy
4.4.2   Pitfall to Avoid When Using Cross Entropies
4.4.3   Sparse Categorical Cross-Entropy
4.5   Building a Classifier with Gradient Descent
4.5.1   Layers in Code
4.5.2   Choice of Loss Function
4.5.3   Parameter Counts
4.5.4   The Density of Keras Code
4.6   Summary

--- Strana 12 ---
5   Deep Dive into Keras
5.1   Introduction to Keras Framework
5.1.1   The Philosophy Behind Keras: Making AI Human-
Friendly
5.1.2   Evolution Through Adaptability
5.1.3   Keras 3.0: The Multi-Engine Framework
5.1.4   Key Strengths of Keras
5.1.5   Keras in the Real World
5.2   Setting Up Keras
5.2.1   Setting Up Python
5.2.2   TensorFlow Installation and Points to Keep in Mind
5.2.3   Setting Up CUDA for GPU Acceleration
5.2.4   Installing Keras
5.2.5   Using a GPU in Google Collaboratory
5.3   Building Your First Model
5.3.1   Why NumPy Matters for Machine Learning
5.3.2   Symbolic Computation: The Magic Behind Neural
Networks

--- Strana 13 ---
5.4   Implementing Core Concepts in Keras:
Gradient Descent and Classification
5.4.1   The Building Blocks of a Cat-Dog Classifier
5.4.2   Getting and Fixing the Data
5.4.3   Performance Optimization and Model Specification
5.4.4   Evaluation Metrics
5.4.5   Guiding the Training Through Callbacks and
Checkpoints
5.4.6   Evaluating the Model
5.5   Summary
6   Regularization Techniques
6.1   An Overview of Overfitting and Underfitting:
Do You Need More Data?
6.1.1   From Lines to Curves: Adding Polynomial Features
6.1.2   Using Increasingly Complex Models
6.1.3   The Balance of Complexity
6.1.4   Regularization Term
6.1.5   Adjusting the Complexity Knob
6.1.6   Do I Need More Data

--- Strana 14 ---
6.1.7   Reporting the Final Results: Validation Set
6.2   Dropout: Concept and Implementation
6.2.1   The Problem: Co-Adaptation and Overfitting
6.2.2   The Road to Memorization
6.2.3   The Ensemble Intuition Behind Dropout
6.2.4   Dropout Mechanics
6.2.5   Finding the Sweet Spot: Dropout Rates in Practice
6.2.6   Implementing Dropout in Pure Python
6.2.7   Common Pitfalls and Debugging Tips
6.3   Other Regularization Methods: L1 and L2
Regularization
6.3.1   L1 Regularization (Lasso)
6.3.2   Elastic Net: Combining L1 and L2
6.3.3   When Not to Use Regularization
6.3.4   Practical Considerations: Dropout vs. L1/L2 in
Neural Networks
6.4   Applying Regularization in Keras
6.4.1   Implementing L2 Regularization in Keras
6.4.2   Dropout in Keras
6.4.3   Beyond Basic Dropout: Specialized Variants
6.4.4   Finding the Perfect Dropout Rate: A Systematic
Approach

--- Strana 15 ---
6.5   Summary
7   Convolutional Neural Networks
7.1   Introduction to Convolutional Neural
Networks
7.1.1   The Limitation of Fully Connected Networks
7.1.2   The Learning Standstill
7.1.3   Solving the Vanishing Gradient Problem
7.1.4   Dense vs. Sparse Connections
7.1.5   From Convolution to Neural Networks: The
Conv2D Layer
7.2   Convolutional Layers, Pooling Layers and
Fully Connected Layers
7.2.1   Core Implementation of a Convolutional Layer
7.2.2   The Hidden Superpowers of Convolutional Layers
7.2.3   Pooling Layers: The Image Simplifiers
7.2.4   Global Pooling
7.2.5   Bringing It All Together: Fully Connected Layers in
CNNs
7.3   Implementing CNNs with Keras

--- Strana 16 ---
7.3.1   Conv2D vs. Conv1D
7.3.2   The Opposite of Convolution: Deconvolution
Layers
7.4   The “Shapes” Problem
7.5   Case Study: Image Classification
7.6   Summary
8   Exploring the Keras Functional
API
8.1   Overview of Keras Functional API
8.1.1   The Information Bottleneck
8.1.2   Networks as Directed Acyclic Graphs
8.1.3   The Functional Programming Heritage
8.1.4   Key Advantages of the Functional API
8.2   Building Complex Models with the
Functional API
8.2.1   Overview of the Functional API Syntax
8.2.2   Creating Models with the Functional API
8.2.3   Best Practices for Complex Models

--- Strana 17 ---
8.2.4   Handling Multiple Inputs and Outputs
8.2.5   Example: Building an Image Captioning Model
8.2.6   Residual Connections
8.2.7   Branching Architectures
8.3   Use Cases and Examples
8.3.1   Image Classification with ResNet
8.3.2   Siamese Networks for Similarity Learning
8.3.3   U-Net for Image Segmentation
8.4   Using Transfer Learning to Customize
Models for Your Organization
8.4.1   The Why of Transfer Learning
8.4.2   Leveraging Pretrained Models from Keras
8.4.3   The Process of Transfer Learning
8.4.4   Reloading an Existing Model
8.5   Summary
9   Understanding Transformers
9.1   The Theory Behind Transformers
9.1.1   A Simple Time Series Example

--- Strana 18 ---
9.1.2   From Numbers to Words: The Challenge of Text
Data
9.1.3   GloVe: Learning the Language of Vectors
9.1.4   A Gentle Introduction to Attention
9.1.5   Why Transformers Revolutionized Natural
Language Processing and Beyond
9.2   Components: Attention Mechanism,
Encoder, Decoder
9.2.1   The Conversation Between Words
9.2.2   Why Position Information Matters
9.2.3   Encoder Structure: The Information Processing
Powerhouse
9.2.4   Decoder Structure: Creating New Sequences from
Understanding
9.3   Implementing Transformers in Keras
9.3.1   The Encoder Block
9.3.2   The Decoder Block
9.3.3   The Transformer: Putting the Encoder and Decoder
Together
9.4   Case Study: Large Language Model
Chatbot

--- Strana 19 ---
9.4.1   Structure of Modern Keras Transformer Models
9.4.2   Working with Pretrained Models from Kaggle Hub
9.5   Summary
10   Reinforcement Learning: The
Secret Sauce
10.1   Introduction to Reinforcement Learning
10.1.1   The Problem of Learning by Doing
10.1.2   Brief History and Major Breakthroughs
10.1.3   Real-World Applications
10.1.4   Challenges Unique to Reinforcement Learning
10.2   Key Concepts: Agents, Environments,
Rewards
10.2.1   Structure of the Reinforcement Learning
Framework
10.2.2   Environment Design and State Representation
10.2.3   Understanding Agents and Policy Functions
10.2.4   Reward Engineering and Signal Design
10.2.5   The Exploration vs. Exploitation Dilemma

--- Strana 20 ---
10.3   Popular Algorithms: Q-Learning, Policy
Gradients, and Deep Q-Networks
10.3.1   The Markov Decision Processes
10.3.2   Value Functions and Q-Tables
10.3.3   Building the Q-Table
10.3.4   Q-Learning Algorithm: A Worked Example
10.3.5   Q-Learning and Associated Issues
10.3.6   The Limits of Tabular Q-Learning
10.4   Implementing Reinforcement Learning
Models in Keras
10.4.1   Our First Reinforcement Learning Environment
10.4.2   Implementing the Deep Q-Network Algorithm with
Keras
10.4.3   Experience Replay and Target Networks: The
Foundations of Stable Deep Reinforcement Learning
10.5   Reinforcement Learning in Large
Language Models
10.5.1   The Fundamental Challenge: Moving Beyond
Prediction
10.5.2   Challenges and Limitations
10.5.3   Future Directions and Emerging Approaches

--- Strana 21 ---
10.6   Summary
11   Autoencoders and Generative
AI
11.1   Introduction to Autoencoders
11.1.1   What Are Autoencoders?
11.1.2   Autoencoder Architecture Deep Dive
11.1.3   Building Your First Autoencoder in Keras
11.1.4   Types of Autoencoders
11.2   Variational Autoencoders
11.2.1   Navigating the Space with Uncertainty
11.2.2   Mathematical Framework of Variational
Autoencoders
11.2.3   Variational Autoencoder Implementation in Keras
11.3   Generative Adversarial Networks
11.3.1   The Adversarial Game
11.3.2   Generative Adversarial Network Architecture
11.3.3   Other Variations

--- Strana 22 ---
11.3.4   Generative Adversarial Network Implementation
in Keras
11.3.5   Implementation Challenges
11.4   Summary
12   Advanced Generative AI:
Stable Diffusion
12.1   Theory Behind Stable Diffusion
12.1.1   From Previous Generative Models to Diffusion
12.1.2   Diffusion Process Fundamentals
12.1.3   Reverse Diffusion: Learning to Denoise
12.1.4   Connections to Physical Processes
12.1.5   Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models
12.1.6   Latent Diffusion and Stable Diffusion Architecture
12.1.7   Cross-Attention: The Bridge Between Text and
Images
12.2   How Stable Diffusion Uses Core Concepts
12.2.1   Efficient Diffusion Through Learned
Representations
12.2.2   Advanced Attention Mechanisms

--- Strana 23 ---
12.2.3   Training Strategies and Optimization
12.3   Implementing Stable Diffusion Models
12.3.1   Environment and Data Prep
12.3.2   Setting Up an Evaluation Measure
12.3.3   Model Description and Time-Step Encodings
12.3.4   Diffusion and Reverse Diffusion
12.3.5   The Generation Engine
12.3.6   Following Progress in the Training Process
12.4   Case Study: Image Generation
12.4.1   Loading Pretrained Models from Keras Hub
12.4.2   Loading Models Through Keras Hub
12.4.3   Using Stable Diffusion Models
12.4.4   Beyond Image Generation to More Complex
Workflows
12.5   Summary
13   Recap of Key Concepts
13.1   Future Trends in Deep Learning
13.1.1   Advanced Architecture Trajectories
13.1.2   Reinforcement Learning Frontiers

--- Strana 24 ---
13.1.3   Generative AI Revolution
13.2   Tips for Staying Updated with
Advancements
13.2.1   Technical Skills Maintenance
13.2.2   Following Tutorials and Keras Codebase
13.2.3   Research Consumption Strategy
13.2.4   Community Engagement
13.3   Following the Latest Research
13.3.1   Technical Deep Dives
13.3.2   Practical Research Integration
13.3.3   Parting Words
The Author
Index
Service Pages
Legal Notes
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 25 ---
1    Introduction
In this chapter, we’ll explore some success stories of deep
learning and discuss why Keras is the ideal framework for
learning this impressive technology, as well as what you can
expect from this book’s comprehensive journey and how to use
it most effectively to build your expertise.
Welcome to your deep dive into the world of deep learning and
modern artificial intelligence (AI). Whether you’re a curious beginner
taking your first steps into machine learning or an experienced
programmer looking to master Keras, this book is designed to guide
you through the concepts that power today’s most remarkable AI
systems. From core algorithms that are deceptively simple to the
modern large language models (LLMs) and photorealistic image
generation giants, the techniques you’ll learn here form the
foundation of modern AI. In this opening chapter, we won’t dive into
the technical depths of neural networks or start building models just
yet. Instead, we’ll focus on understanding what makes this book
unique and how it can help you master state-of-the-art machine
learning techniques. The concepts we’ll explore throughout these
pages represent the same fundamental principles that drive

--- Strana 26 ---
breakthrough technologies such as ChatGPT, image generation
systems, and autonomous vehicles.
Every great journey begins with understanding the path ahead, and
that’s exactly what we’ll accomplish in this chapter. We’ll explore why
deep learning has become so powerful, why Keras is the perfect tool
for learning these concepts, and how this book is structured to take
you from foundational principles to advanced applications. This
foundation will prove invaluable as we progress through increasingly
sophisticated topics, ensuring you’re well-equipped to tackle each
new concept with confidence. With that groundwork in mind, let’s
begin by exploring what deep learning really means and why it has
become the driving force behind today’s AI revolution.
[»]  Objective of This Chapter
While we’ll begin the technical details of machine learning
fundamentals in the next chapter, this introductory chapter serves
the important purpose of helping you understand how to use this
book most effectively.
1.1    Overview of Deep Learning
Picture a helicopter hovering steadily in turbulent wind, its rotors
adjusting hundreds of times per second to maintain perfect balance.
Now imagine that helicopter has no human pilot. Instead, it’s

--- Strana 27 ---
controlled by AI that learned to fly by crashing thousands of times in
simulation, each failure teaching it something new about the delicate
dance of rotor physics and wind dynamics. This is perfectly possible
today in research labs around the world, where AI systems are
mastering tasks that once seemed impossibly complex for machines.
We’re living through what many consider the most remarkable period
in the history of AI. Every few months brings news of another
breakthrough that would have seemed like magic just a decade ago.
Machines are now solving scientific problems that have puzzled
researchers for decades, creating art that moves us emotionally and
making decisions in split seconds that save lives. These
achievements signal a fundamental shift in what we can expect from
computer systems in the future. What makes this moment
particularly exciting is that these aren’t isolated tricks or narrow
solutions to specific problems. Instead, they emerge from the same
underlying principles and techniques that you’ll learn throughout this
book. The algorithms powering a self-driving car share fundamental
similarities with those generating photorealistic images or
discovering new precision medicines. Understanding these will
enable you to see not just how these systems work but how to build
them yourself.
In this section, we’ll discuss some of the important success stories of
deep learning in the recent past, study briefly what made these
successes possible, and discuss the importance of why this
happened at this particular time in history.

--- Strana 28 ---
1.1.1    The Success of Deep Learning
The breadth of applications where AI now excels was unimaginable
just a few years ago. Let’s explore some of the most remarkable
achievements that showcase what’s possible when we harness the
power of modern machine learning. These examples will hopefully
motivate you to build systems that solve problems in many more
domains.
The New Frontier of Autonomous Systems
Consider the challenge of autonomous driving—a problem that
requires processing visual information faster than any human while
making life-or-death decisions in milliseconds. Modern self-driving
cars use deep learning that can identify pedestrians in shadows,
predict the behavior of other drivers, and navigate complex
intersections where multiple vehicles, cyclists, and pedestrians
interact simultaneously. These systems process input from cameras,
radar, and lidar sensors, combining all of this information into a
coherent understanding of their environment.
What makes autonomous vehicles particularly impressive is their
ability to handle edge cases—unexpected situations that engineers
never explicitly programmed them to encounter. Examples include a
child’s ball rolling into the street, construction zones with unusual
traffic patterns, or emergency vehicles requiring right of way.

--- Strana 29 ---
AI systems learn to recognize these scenarios and respond
appropriately through exposure to millions of miles of driving data
and countless simulated scenarios. Beyond cars, we’re seeing
autonomous systems master even more challenging environments.
Research helicopters now perform acrobatic maneuvers that push
the boundaries of what’s physically possible, executing rolls and
loops that would challenge the most skilled human pilots. These
systems learn through trial and error in simulation, gradually building
an intuitive understanding of aerodynamics and control that allows
them to perform feats that seem to defy gravity.
Intelligence That Masters Games and Strategy
The world watched in amazement when AlphaGo defeated Lee
Sedol, one of the world’s strongest Go players, in a match that many
experts thought would take decades for AI to win. Go, with its 10170
possible board configurations, represents a complexity that dwarfs
chess. Yet AlphaGo didn’t just win—it played moves that initially
seemed like mistakes but revealed deep strategic insights that
human masters had never considered. Even more remarkable was
AlphaGo’s successor, AlphaZero, which learned to play chess, Go,
and shogi from scratch without any human guidance. Given only the
rules of each game, it discovered strategies and principles that took
human civilization centuries to develop, often finding novel
approaches that overturned conventional wisdom. In chess,
AlphaZero developed an aggressive, dynamic style that prioritized

--- Strana 30 ---
piece activity over material, leading to games that grand masters
described as beautiful and instructive.
These game-playing systems demonstrate something profound
about machine learning: the ability to discover knowledge rather than
simply storing and retrieving information. They develop intuition
about position evaluation, long-term planning, and strategic
principles that mirror the way human experts think about complex
decisions.
Scientific Discovery and Understanding
Building on the same concepts as the two systems just mentioned,
AlphaFold, developed by DeepMind, solved the protein folding
problem—predicting how amino acid sequences fold into 3D
structures that determine their biological function. This problem had
challenged scientists for more than 50 years, yet AlphaFold achieved
accuracy levels that approached experimental methods while
requiring just minutes rather than months or years of laboratory
work. My own research work in protein function prediction through
deep learning predates AlphaFold by a couple of years. I was able to
beat expert-designed systems even though I had no training in
bioinformatics. I just knew how to write a deep learning system that
could learn from the given data.
The implications of this data-driven approach extend far beyond
academic curiosity. Understanding protein structure is crucial for
drug discovery, disease research, and biotechnology development.

--- Strana 31 ---
AlphaFold has already accelerated research into malaria,
Parkinson’s disease, and COVID-19 treatments. The system
essentially compressed decades of potential research time into
computational predictions, opening new avenues for medical
breakthroughs.
Similarly, in materials science, AI systems are discovering new
compounds with desired properties, from superconductors to
batteries with improved energy density. These systems can explore
vast spaces of possible molecular configurations, identifying
promising candidates for synthesis and testing. What once required
years of trial-and-error experimentation can now be guided by
intelligent predictions about material properties.
The Creative Revolution
On the more abstract side, the boundary between human and
machine creativity has blurred dramatically with recent advances in
generative AI. Systems can now produce photorealistic images from
simple text descriptions and generate videos that seamlessly blend
reality with imagination. Creating systems that can generate
photorealistic images from a given text prompt is, in fact, the
objective of the final chapter in this book. Neural radiance fields
(NeRFs) can reconstruct complete 3D scenes from just a handful of
photographs, allowing virtual cameras to move through spaces with
realistic lighting and shadows.

--- Strana 32 ---
These aren’t simple cut-and-paste operations or basic filters applied
to existing content. Modern generative systems learn the underlying
patterns and structures that make images, text, or audio compelling,
and then use this understanding to create entirely new content. The
technology has progressed to the point where AI-generated content
regularly appears in movies, advertisements, and art galleries.
Fashion designers use AI to explore new patterns and styles,
architects visualize buildings that exist only as concepts, and
filmmakers create impossible scenes without expensive special
effects. The creative process itself is being augmented and
enhanced by systems that can generate hundreds of variations on
an idea in seconds.
Language Understanding and Generation
Large language models (LLMs) represent perhaps the most visible
breakthrough in recent AI development. These systems can engage
in conversations that feel natural and helpful, write code in dozens of
programming languages, translate between languages with
impressive accuracy, and explain complex concepts in ways adapted
to different audiences. They demonstrate a form of language
understanding that goes beyond simple pattern matching to
something that resembles genuine comprehension.
What makes these systems particularly remarkable is their emergent
capabilities—abilities that weren’t explicitly programmed but arise
from the complex interactions within their parts. They can perform

--- Strana 33 ---
mathematical reasoning, creative writing, code debugging, and
analogical thinking. When asked to solve a problem they’ve never
encountered, they can often break it down into components and
work through solutions step-by-step. The applications continue
expanding as researchers discover new ways to leverage these
language capabilities. The technology is transforming how we
interact with computers, moving from rigid command structures to
natural conversation.
Robotics and Physical Intelligence
What’s more, this progress isn’t limited to software. Modern robotics
combines computer vision, motor control, and decision-making in
ways that enable machines to operate in unstructured, real-world,
brick-and-mortar environments. Robots can now navigate cluttered
warehouses, manipulate delicate objects, and adapt to unexpected
obstacles or changes in their environment. Robots created at Boston
Dynamics demonstrate parkour moves, dance routines, and
recovery behaviors that showcase remarkable physical intelligence.
Industrial robots equipped with AI can learn new tasks through
demonstration rather than explicit programming. A human worker
might show the robot how to assemble a component, and the system
learns to generalize this knowledge to variations in part positions,
orientations, and even slightly different components. This flexibility
makes automation practical for smaller production runs and more
varied manufacturing environments. Service robots are beginning to

--- Strana 34 ---
operate in hospitals, hotels, and homes, performing tasks such as
cleaning, delivery, and basic assistance. These systems must
navigate around people, understand social cues, and operate safely
in environments designed for humans. In all of these contexts, the AI
capabilities required include not just movement and manipulation but
understanding of human behavior and social context.
1.1.2    The Two Pillars Supporting These Breakthroughs
While these applications might seem diverse and unrelated, they all
rest on two fundamental approaches to machine learning: deep
learning and reinforcement learning. Understanding this connection
is crucial because it reveals why learning these core techniques
gives you access to such a broad range of capabilities.
Deep learning excels at finding patterns in complex data. Whether
processing images to identify objects, analyzing text to understand
meaning, or examining protein sequences to predict structure, deep
learning systems can automatically discover relevant features and
relationships without explicit programming. The “deep” refers to the
many layers of processing that transform raw input into increasingly
sophisticated representations.
Reinforcement learning, on the other hand, enables systems to learn
through interaction and feedback. Rather than learning from fixed
examples, these systems explore their environment, try different
actions, and gradually improve their behavior based on the results
they achieve. This approach is essential for systems that must make

--- Strana 35 ---
sequential decisions in dynamic environments. Many of the most
impressive AI breakthroughs combine both approaches. AlphaGo
uses deep learning to evaluate board positions and reinforcement
learning to develop strategy through self-play. Autonomous vehicles
use deep learning to process sensor data and reinforcement learning
to improve driving policies. Language models use deep learning for
text understanding and generation, followed by reinforcement
learning to align their responses with human preferences.
This convergence reflects fundamental aspects of intelligence itself.
The ability to learn from experience is essential for navigating a
complex world. By mastering deep learning and reinforcement
learning using the techniques in this book, you’ll understand the
foundation underlying virtually all modern AI applications.
1.1.3    Why Now?
These breakthroughs aren’t the result of a single invention or
discovery. Instead, they emerge from the convergence of several
factors that have aligned in recent years. Computational power has
increased dramatically with specialized processors designed for
machine learning workloads. The internet has generated vast
datasets that provide the training material these systems need.
Algorithmic advances have made it possible to train larger and more
capable models than ever before. Perhaps most importantly, these
technologies have reached a level of maturity where they can move
from research laboratories into real-world applications. The gap

--- Strana 36 ---
between what works in controlled experimental conditions and what
functions reliably in the messy real world has narrowed considerably.
This transition from research curiosity to practical tool represents a
fundamental shift in the technology landscape.
The systems we’ve explored represent just the beginning of what’s
possible. As techniques improve and computational resources
continue to expand, there will definitely be more remarkable
applications. Researchers are working on AI systems that can
conduct scientific experiments, design new materials at the atomic
level, and solve complex optimization problems that affect everything
from traffic flow to energy distribution.
Building systems like these requires more than theoretical
knowledge. Practical tools are essential for experimentation,
iteration, and efficient implementation of ideas. The choice of
framework can make the difference between a smooth learning
experience and frustrating struggles with unnecessary complexity.
This brings us to a crucial question: Which tool should you use to
transform your understanding into working systems?
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 37 ---
1.2    Why Keras
If you’ve picked up this book, you’re probably already familiar with
Keras and its widespread popularity in the machine learning
community. Perhaps you’ve seen it mentioned in research papers,
used in online tutorials, or recommended by colleagues who work
with neural networks. That familiarity serves you well because Keras
represents the perfect choice for learning and applying deep learning
concepts.
Keras has earned its reputation through several key strengths that
make it uniquely suited for both beginners and experts:
First and foremost is its remarkable usability. Where other
frameworks might require dozens of lines of boilerplate code just
to set up a basic neural network, Keras lets you define complex
architectures with intuitive, readable syntax that closely mirrors
how you think about the problem. The code reads almost like a
natural description of your model’s structure.
Beyond ease of use, Keras delivers highly efficient performance
that scales from laptop experiments to production systems running
on massive cloud infrastructures. The framework maintains an
extremely up-to-date knowledge base, incorporating the latest
research advances often within weeks of their publication.
Perhaps most impressively, Keras demonstrates remarkable
backwards compatibility—code written years ago typically runs

--- Strana 38 ---
with only minor modifications, which represents no small feat in
this rapidly evolving field where frameworks often break existing
code with each major update. This also means that the concepts
you learn in this book will stay with you for a long time, which is a
major benefit in this fast-paced domain.
One of Keras’ most valuable features is how it abstracts away
underlying implementation details that aren’t relevant to high-level
model design. When you’re building a neural network, you don’t
need to worry about the intricate optimizations happening during
matrix multiplications, memory management strategies, or the
dozens of other low-level considerations that could easily distract
from your core objective. Keras handles these complexities behind
the scenes, letting you focus on the architecture and logic of your
models.
This abstraction doesn’t come at the cost of flexibility, however.
When you do need to dive deeper—perhaps when creating novel
architectures that push beyond established patterns—Keras
gracefully exposes the underlying mechanisms with remarkable
ease. This progressive disclosure represents the hallmark of truly
great software design. You can work at the level of abstraction that
matches your current needs, whether that’s rapidly prototyping a
standard model or implementing cutting-edge research that
requires custom components.
These strengths and the balance between usability and flexibility has
made Keras the go-to framework for learning about deep learning

--- Strana 39 ---
across universities, research institutions, and industry teams
worldwide. Students appreciate its gentle learning curve, while
researchers value its flexibility and rapid iteration capabilities. The
framework has become something of a lingua franca in the deep
learning community, making code sharing and collaboration more
seamless than ever before.
Keras code is remarkably dense and concise. You can create
extremely complex models, train them on large datasets, and
evaluate their performance using only tens of lines of code, not
hundreds. Some smaller pipelines require fewer than 30 lines to
implement complete end-to-end solutions. This conciseness
represents both Keras’s greatest strength and its potential challenge
for newcomers. The density of Keras code means that each line
often encapsulates sophisticated deep learning concepts and
operations. While this efficiency is powerful, it demands genuine
understanding of the underlying principles. Using Keras blindly—
changing parameter values or adding layers without comprehending
their purpose—leads to a frustrating cycle of trial and error. The
framework’s flexibility ensures you won’t encounter immediate
errors, but you’ll find yourself making changes without clear
direction, unable to diagnose problems or make meaningful progress
toward your goals.
This challenge highlights why simply learning Keras syntax isn’t
enough. Understanding how to use the framework effectively
requires deep comprehension of the machine learning concepts it
implements. You need to know not just which functions to call but

--- Strana 40 ---
why those functions exist, what they accomplish, and how they
interact with other components of your model. Without this
foundation, you’ll find yourself stuck in unproductive loops, adjusting
function argument values randomly and hoping for improvement.
Throughout this book, we’ll address this challenge head-on by
explaining Keras syntax as well as the fundamental concepts that
give that syntax meaning. You’ll learn why certain architectural
choices make sense, how different loss functions affect training
dynamics, and what various optimization strategies accomplish. This
approach ensures that when your models don’t perform as expected,
you’ll have the knowledge to diagnose problems systematically
rather than resorting to random experimentation. Our goal is to make
you fluent in both the Keras framework and the deep learning
principles it embodies. This dual fluency will serve you well whether
you’re adapting existing models to new problems, implementing
research papers, or developing entirely novel approaches. You’ll gain
the confidence that comes from genuine understanding, enabling
you to make informed decisions about model architecture, training
strategies, and debugging approaches.
With this foundation established and our tool of choice justified, let’s
see how this book is structured to guide you through the complete
journey from fundamental concepts to advanced applications.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 41 ---
1.3    The Structure of This Book
Understanding deep learning is similar to building a house. First, it
requires a solid foundation. If even one corner of the foundation is
weak, it will be impossible to construct a strong house. Once the
foundation is strong and secure, you can add the walls, and you
need those walls in place before you can put on the roof. Along the
same lines, each chapter in this book represents a crucial step in
constructing your understanding, with every concept building
naturally on what came before. By the time you reach the final
chapter, you’ll have built something remarkable: a deep, intuitive
understanding of the same techniques that power today’s most
advanced AI systems. The chapters in this book follow a carefully
crafted progression that mirrors how these concepts actually work
together in practice.
We start with a practical case study that illustrates the strengths of
Keras but then immediately jump to the mathematical bedrock that
supports everything else. We then gradually add layers of
sophistication until you’re working with cutting-edge architectures.
This approach ensures you never feel lost or overwhelmed—each
new idea will feel like a natural extension of what you already
understand.
Here’s what this progression looks like in terms of the chapter
contents:

--- Strana 42 ---
Chapter 2: Introduction to the Core of Machine Learning
serves as your entry point into the world of AI. Here, we’ll explore
what machine learning really means and how it differs from
traditional programming. You’ll discover the three main types of
learning—supervised learning, unsupervised learning, and the
particularly exciting world of reinforcement learning. We’ll also
introduce neural networks at a conceptual level and get your
coding environment set up. Consider this chapter your orientation
session, where we establish the vocabulary and basic concepts
that will guide everything that follows.
Chapter 3: Fundamentals of Gradient Descent dives into the
engine that makes machine learning possible. This technique
enables our models to learn from mistakes and improve
performance over time. We’ll explore different varieties of gradient
descent and implement them in code, giving you hands-on
experience with the optimization process that drives all neural
network training.
Chapter 4: Classification Through Gradient Descent puts your
newfound understanding to work on one of machine learning’s
most important tasks: classification. You’ll learn how to build
systems that can categorize data into different groups, moving
from simple binary decisions to complex multi-class problems.
We’ll introduce loss functions such as cross-entropy, which help
our models understand what “good” and “bad” predictions look
like. By the end of this chapter, you’ll have built your first real
classifier using the gradient descent principles from Chapter 3.

--- Strana 43 ---
This chapter will also discuss some pitfalls that can arise when
using gradient descent for solving new problems. You’ll learn the
method to identify these issues, which will be a critical skill when
working with the latest and greatest models.
Chapter 5: Deep Dive into Keras introduces you to the powerful
framework that will become your primary tool for building neural
networks. You’ll get a deep understanding of the underlying
principles and methods that enable Keras to do what it does best.
You’ll also see how Keras elegantly implements the gradient
descent and classification concepts you’ve already learned. This
chapter bridges the gap between understanding principles and
applying them practically.
Chapter 6: Regularization Techniques addresses one of
machine learning’s greatest challenges: ensuring your models
work well on new, unseen data. We’ll explore what happens when
models become too specialized on their training data, as well as
introduce techniques such as dropout that help create more robust
systems. You’ll learn when you might need more data versus
when you need better techniques, giving you the judgment to
diagnose and fix common training problems.
Chapter 7: Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) opens the
door to computer vision by introducing specialized neural
architectures designed for processing images. You’ll learn about
convolutional layers, pooling operations, and how to handle the
infamous “shape mismatch problem” that often confuses even the
more expert deep learning practitioners. We’ll cap off with a

--- Strana 44 ---
complete image classification project that brings together
everything you’ve learned so far.
Chapter 8: Exploring the Functional API of Keras expands your
toolkit by showing how to build more sophisticated model
architectures. While earlier chapters focused on sequential
models that flow data in a straight line, the functional API lets you
create complex networks with multiple inputs, outputs, and
intricate internal connections. You’ll also explore transfer learning,
a powerful technique that lets you adapt pretrained models to your
specific needs. This chapter is where we start diving deeper into
the nitty-gritty of the more modern, more complex models.
Chapter 9: Understanding Transformers introduces you to the
architecture that revolutionized natural language processing (NLP)
and powers systems such as GPT and ChatGPT. Transformers
use an attention mechanism that lets them focus on relevant parts
of their input, much like how you might scan a paragraph and pay
special attention to certain key phrases. You’ll implement
transformers in Keras and build your own language model
chatbot, seeing firsthand how these systems process and
generate text.
Chapter 10: Reinforcement Learning: The Secret Sauce
explores the learning paradigm that enables AI systems to master
games, control robots, and make sequential decisions in complex
environments. Unlike supervised learning, where we show the
system correct answers, reinforcement learning lets agents
discover successful strategies through trial and error. You’ll

--- Strana 45 ---
implement popular algorithms such as Q-learning and policy
gradients, and then discover how reinforcement learning
enhances LLMs through techniques such as human feedback
training.
Chapter 11: Autoencoders and Generative AI shifts focus from
recognition to creation, introducing you to systems that can
generate new content. Autoencoders learn to compress and
reconstruct data, developing internal representations that capture
essential features. We’ll explore Variational Autoencoders (VAEs)
that can generate new examples and Generative Adversarial
Networks (GANs), where two neural networks compete against
each other, driving each other to improve. These techniques form
the foundation of modern generative AI.
Chapter 12: Advanced Generative AI: Stable Diffusion builds
on our generative exploration with one of the most impressive
recent breakthroughs in AI. Stable Diffusion represents the cutting
edge of image generation, capable of creating photorealistic
images from text descriptions. You’ll understand the theory behind
diffusion models and see how they use many of the core concepts
you’ve learned throughout the book. We’ll implement diffusion
models and explore their applications in image generation and
enhancement.
Chapter 13: Recap of Key Concepts brings our journey full
circle, connecting all the pieces you’ve learned into a coherent
whole. We’ll explore emerging trends in deep learning, discuss
how to stay current with rapidly evolving research, and provide

--- Strana 46 ---
guidance for continued learning. You’ll leave with not just technical
knowledge but the confidence and framework to tackle new
developments as they emerge.
This progression is a carefully designed learning experience that
transforms you from a newcomer curious about AI and Keras into
someone who truly understands how these remarkable systems
work. Each chapter provides both the conceptual understanding and
practical skills you need, while the overall arc ensures you see how
everything connects. By the time you complete all of this, you’ll have
the same foundational knowledge that researchers use to push the
boundaries of what’s possible with AI.
The path ahead is challenging but rewarding. Every concept you
master opens doors to new possibilities, and every project you
complete builds confidence in your growing expertise. Most
importantly, you’ll develop the deep understanding needed to adapt
these techniques to your own problems and contribute to the
ongoing AI revolution.
1.3.1    Text Boxes
Throughout the book, we’ve also provided several elements that will
help you access useful information:

--- Strana 47 ---
[+]  Tips and Tricks
Boxes with this symbol provide you with recommendations as to
how you can simplify your work.
[»]  Notes
Boxes marked with this symbol contain additional information or
important contents that you should keep in mind.
[ ! ]  Warnings
Boxes with this symbol contain details worth considering.
Moreover, it warns you of common errors or problems that might
occur.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 48 ---
1.4    How to Use This Book
As we’ve established, Keras code is remarkably dense and concise.
The framework has been designed to eliminate bloat and boilerplate
code, allowing you to express complex machine learning concepts
with minimal syntax. This elegant efficiency comes with an important
implication: understanding Keras deeply really means understanding
the underlying machine learning concepts thoroughly. There’s no
separation between knowing the framework and knowing the field.
This fundamental connection explains why any Keras book that
focuses solely on syntax and function names will never truly serve
you well. Learning to call functions without understanding their
purpose leaves you helpless when those functions don’t produce the
results you expect. You’ll find yourself copying code patterns without
the knowledge needed to adapt them to your specific problems or
diagnose issues when they arise.
This book has one clear objective: to help you use Keras effectively
and efficiently. Achieving this goal requires developing a deep
understanding of the core principles that underlie machine learning,
deep learning, and all the related concepts that make these systems
work.
Consider regularization as an example of why this depth is
important. In Keras, applying regularization might look as simple as
adding a single argument to a function call shown in Listing 1.1.

--- Strana 49 ---
Dense(128, activation='relu',  
        kernel_regularizer=regularizers.l2(0.01))  
Listing 1.1     Keras Code Snippet with Regularization Parameter
That single function call encapsulates a sophisticated technique for
preventing memorization by the machine, but determining the right
value for that 0.01 parameter requires understanding contour plots,
loss landscapes, and how different regularization strengths interact
with your model’s learning dynamics. Without this foundational
knowledge, you’re reduced to guessing parameter values and
hoping for the best, which usually doesn’t work out in the complex
landscape of this field. This is why we dedicate several sections to
regularization concepts in Chapter 6, ensuring you understand not
just how to apply these techniques but when and why they work and
even when to not use them at all!
This philosophy shapes our entire approach to learning Keras. We
won’t start by explaining every aspect of the framework immediately.
Instead, while we begin using Keras right from the next chapter, we
won’t explain every part of the code at first. Attempting to cover all
details simultaneously would be counterproductive and
overwhelming. Our strategy follows a more natural learning
progression. We’ll show you fully working code examples—starting
with a complete, functioning system at the very beginning of the next
chapter. We’ll explain some parts of this code while acknowledging
that other parts remain mysterious for now. Then, we’ll step back to
explore the mathematical foundations and underlying concepts that

--- Strana 50 ---
give meaning to what you’ve seen. Armed with this deeper
understanding, we’ll return to the previous code, this time explaining
additional components that were previously opaque. We’ll also
progressively add more features of Keras as we go along, adding
them based on need rather than because they are next in line.
This iterative approach ensures you see tangible progress in terms
of working code while simultaneously building the conceptual
foundation that will serve you throughout your career. You’ll develop
the ability not just to read other people’s code but to modify existing
systems and write completely new ones from scratch when your
projects demand novel solutions.
1.4.1    Why Keras Installation Comes Later
You might notice from the table of contents that we don’t dive deep
into Keras installation and setup until Chapter 5. This timing is
deliberate and reflects how learning actually happens in practice. By
weaving Keras into our narrative early, you gain hands-on exposure
to the framework without needing complete mastery of every
installation detail up front. This approach mirrors real-world learning,
where tools and concepts evolve together rather than in isolation.
You’ll see Keras in action and work with code early on. However,
delaying the comprehensive Keras installation and deep dive until
after we’ve covered foundational machine learning concepts ensures
clarity while maintaining momentum through your early learning
experience.

--- Strana 51 ---
We can start working with Keras immediately in the next chapter
without requiring local installation. Online platforms and cloud-based
notebooks let you run code and experiment with concepts before
committing to any particular setup. We’ll provide instructions on
these in Chapter 2 to bring you up to speed. After we’ve established
the foundational machine learning concepts through Chapter 4, we’ll
provide everything you need for a complete Keras environment in
Chapter 5. This will serve you through the advanced concepts in
Chapters 6 and beyond.
1.4.2    Suggested Reading Strategy
The most effective way to work with this book is to read it from start
to finish. This isn’t a reference manual where you can jump around
freely. While this back-and-forth is possible, the text of this book is
one cohesive story that builds systematically toward deep
understanding. Each chapter assumes knowledge from previous
chapters, and skipping sections will leave gaps that become
problematic later. Still, we’ve heavily cross-referenced relevant
portions of previous chapters in later ones so that you can easily go
back to refresh important concepts.
Even topics you think you already know deserve at least a light
reading. For example, the types of machine learning covered in
Chapter 2 are often presented as purely theoretical concepts in other
resources. Here, they’ve been crafted specifically to impact your
learning in later chapters. The way we introduce supervised,

--- Strana 52 ---
unsupervised, and reinforcement learning sets up crucial distinctions
that become essential when you’re choosing architectures and
training strategies in advanced chapters.
More importantly, whenever you encounter code snippets, always
run the code yourself. We’re making all the code in this book
available through the book resources page, and it’s highly
recommended that you type the examples yourself rather than
simply copying and pasting. The act of typing forces you to engage
with each line, often revealing details you might otherwise miss. If
typing every example becomes impractical, running the provided
code is still far better than just reading it passively.
[»]  Book Resources Page: Source Code Listings and Full
Color Images
You can access all source code listings and full color versions of
images and diagrams used throughout the book on the book’s web
page at http://rheinwerk-computing.com/6142 as well as on the
resources page here: https://recluze.net/keras-book. Resources
are arranged by chapters, and we’ll provide specifics of which
code listing to use as they are discussed throughout the text.
In summary, your learning process should follow this pattern: read
through chapters in order (skipping only when absolutely necessary),
run code whenever it’s discussed, and experiment with different
parameter values to see how changes affect results. This
experimentation is crucial. Seeing what happens when you modify

--- Strana 53 ---
values builds intuition that no amount of theoretical explanation can
provide. Don’t worry if some pieces of code remain unexplained
initially—this is intentional, not an oversight. By the end of Chapter 6,
we’ll have covered enough foundational concepts that every
component can be explained thoroughly. From that point forward, we
won’t skip explanations, and you’ll have the knowledge base needed
to understand sophisticated implementations.
This patient, systematic approach ensures that you develop both the
practical skills needed to implement solutions and the deep
understanding required to innovate beyond existing patterns. The
journey requires commitment, but the destination—true fluency in
both Keras and the machine learning concepts it embodies—will
serve you throughout your career in this rapidly evolving field.
With all of that out of the way, let’s start writing some Keras code!
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 54 ---
2    Introduction to the Core of
Machine Learning
At its core, machine learning is about finding patterns in data
and using them to make decisions. In this chapter, we’ll
explore the fundamental ways machines can learn—through
direct instruction with examples, by discovering patterns on
their own, or through trial and error. We’ll see how these
approaches mirror learning in the natural world, and we’ll begin
to understand the powerful systems that make this learning
possible. By the end, you’ll be ready to start experimenting
with these ideas yourself.
Computers have evolved from simple instruction-followers to
systems that can learn from data and improve their performance
over time. This shift represents the core of machine learning—
creating programs that discover patterns and develop solutions
without being explicitly programmed for every scenario. This is the
world of machine learning, and in this chapter, we’re taking our first
steps into this fascinating landscape. You might have heard
buzzwords such as AI, deep learning, or neural networks thrown
around in tech conversations. Perhaps you’ve wondered how your

--- Strana 55 ---
phone can recognize your face even in poor lighting, how your email
service filters out spam with remarkable accuracy, or how self-driving
cars can distinguish between pedestrians, road signs, and other
vehicles in real time. Maybe you’ve been amazed by how modern
language translation services can capture nuances and context that
simple word-for-word translation could never achieve. These are
only a few examples of machine learning in action, and by the end of
this chapter, you’ll understand the fundamental principles that make
them (and many more) possible.
We’re going to approach this journey a bit differently than traditional
textbooks. Instead of diving straight into formal definitions and
mathematical notation, we’ll start with real-world examples that show
why traditional programming falls short and how machine learning
fills that gap. Think of it as learning to cook by actually making
dishes, rather than memorizing recipes.
[+]  How to Make the Most of This Chapter
While this chapter may appear theoretical, it’s crucial to devote
time and thought to these concepts. The understanding you
develop here will prove invaluable when implementing the
concepts in Keras. The framework’s concise syntax means that
adjusting a single parameter can dramatically impact performance.
This chapter equips you with the analytical framework needed to
make informed design decisions when confronting complex
challenges in later implementations.

--- Strana 56 ---
First, as a case study, you’ll see why teaching a computer to
recognize handwritten numbers becomes surprisingly challenging
when we try to write explicit rules but becomes elegantly solvable
when we let the computer learn from examples. This case study will
serve as our gateway into understanding the core principles of
machine learning, illuminating the path that leads from data to
intelligence. We’ll then explore the different flavors of machine
learning: supervised, unsupervised, and semi-supervised learning.
But more importantly, we’ll discuss the common misconceptions that
often trip up newcomers to the field. You’ll learn why “more data” isn’t
always the answer and why some problems that seem perfect for
machine learning might be better solved with traditional methods.
One of the most exciting areas we’ll explore is reinforcement
learning, which you can think of as teaching through experience
rather than examples. This is how computers learn to play chess
better than grand masters or control robotic systems with
superhuman precision. It’s often overlooked in introductory texts, but
understanding reinforcement learning early will give you a more
complete picture of what’s possible in machine learning.
We’ll then introduce neural networks, showing how they serve as a
bridge between traditional machine learning and reinforcement
learning. Don’t worry if you’ve heard they’re complex—we’ll break
them down into digestible concepts and expand on them piece by
piece to simplify them.

--- Strana 57 ---
Finally, we’ll get practical. You’ll set up your own machine learning
environment, installing the tools you’ll need for the rest of this book.
We’ve streamlined this process to get you up and running quickly,
focusing on writing code rather than fighting with installations. By the
end of this chapter, you’ll have a solid foundation in machine learning
concepts, hands-on experience with basic tools, and most
importantly, the confidence to tackle more advanced topics in the
chapters ahead. So, let’s begin our journey into the heart of machine
learning using a case study.
2.1    What Is Machine Learning?
Imagine walking into a room filled with little sticky notes with
handwritten numbers on them. Each digit, from 0 to 9, scrawled in
different styles—some neat and precise, others barely legible. Now,
picture being asked to teach a computer to recognize these
numbers, just as effortlessly as you do. This is the famous MNIST
dataset, a collection of handwritten digits that has become the “Hello
World” of machine learning. Created by researchers Yann LeCun,
Corinna Cortes, and Christopher Burges through a careful
modification of an earlier dataset from the National Institute of
Standards and Technology (NIST), MNIST (the Modified National
Institute of Standards and Technology database) became the first
large-scale, standardized testing ground for machine learning
algorithms. Think of MNIST as the primer that sparked a revolution.
In the late 1990s, when researchers were still debating whether

--- Strana 58 ---
computers could reliably recognize handwriting, MNIST provided a
perfect challenge: 60,000+ images, each a carefully scanned and
size-normalized handwritten digit. It gave the entire machine learning
community a standardized test so that everyone could work on the
same problem and compare their results directly.
Even today, in an era of massive datasets and powerful computers,
MNIST remains invaluable. It’s seemingly basic but contains all the
fundamental challenges of computer vision. The dataset is small
enough to experiment with quickly (you can train a model in minutes,
not days), yet complex enough to demonstrate real-world
challenges. Each digit shows variations in style, thickness, and
angle, presenting the same kind of difficulties that modern vision
systems face with more complex images. This perfect balance
between simplicity and complexity makes MNIST an ideal laboratory
for testing new ideas and teaching machine learning concepts.
Starting with MNIST ensures that you’ll learn the core principles
behind how machines actually learn while also laying the foundations
for the more complex models to come in future chapters of this book.
So, let’s begin by learning how to recognize MNIST digits.
2.1.1    Helping the Machine Recognize Digits
But how do you teach a computer to recognize these digits? The
traditional way is to write explicit rules: “if there’s a closed loop, it
might be a 0, 6, 8, or 9” or “if there’s a straight line with a hook at the
top, it’s probably a 7.” However, anyone who’s ever tried to read

--- Strana 59 ---
someone else’s handwriting knows that rules like these quickly fall
apart. There are simply too many variations, too many exceptions,
and too many ways to write each number. Consider how a hastily
written 7 might look nearly identical to a 1—both could appear as a
single vertical stroke with a slight angle. Or think about the subtle
difference between a 5 and a 6—in many handwriting styles, both
start with a curved top, and if the writer doesn’t clearly close the loop
of the 6, these digits become almost indistinguishable. Even more
confounding are the regional variations: some people cross their 7s
horizontally, while others don’t; some write their 4s with an open top,
while others close it completely. The variations are endless, and
what seems obvious to human eyes often defies simple
computational rules. Figure 2.1 shows some examples from the
MNIST dataset.
Figure 2.1     Sample Digits in the MNIST Dataset
Let me explain these images, keeping in mind their importance in
understanding machine learning’s core concepts. What you’re
seeing are four handwritten digits from the MNIST dataset but shown
in a way that reveals their digital nature. Each image is a grid of
pixels—tiny squares that, when put together, form the complete
picture. While the original images are 8×8 pixels (giving us 64 pixels
per digit), they’re greatly magnified here so we can see the individual

--- Strana 60 ---
pixels clearly. That means you have to squint a little bit to recognize
the digits. Go ahead and squint so that you can see the 0, 1, 2 and 3
in the figure.
Each pixel’s shade represents how dark that particular point was in
the original handwritten digit. The darkest pixels (shown in black)
indicate where the pen made the strongest contact with the paper,
while the lighter shades of gray show where the pen pressure was
lighter or where the ink spread slightly. Think of it like a detailed
pressure map of someone writing these numbers.
2.1.2    The Outdated Method—Rule-Based Learning
To truly appreciate the complexity of the task here, let’s look at how
early attempts at AI worked through another fascinating example:
ELIZA, one of the first chatbots ever created. While today’s chatbots
use complex systems, ELIZA used very complex pattern-matching
rules written in LISP—one of the oldest programming languages that
was used extensively for AI back in the day—that looked something
like that shown in Listing 2.1.
(rule "HELLO"
  ((* "Hello" * "I'm" *name))
  ("Hi there" *name "I'm Eliza"))  
Listing 2.1     A Simple Rule for Greetings in ELIZA
This rule is a template with blanks to fill in—like a sophisticated
game of Mad Libs. The asterisks (*) are wildcards that can match

--- Strana 61 ---
any text, while *name captures whatever the person typed after “I’m”.
So, if someone types “Hello, I’m Sarah”, ELIZA would match this
pattern and respond with “Hi there Sarah, I’m Eliza”.
This rule-based approach is elegant in its simplicity, but it also shows
us why modern machine learning became necessary. ELIZA needed
explicit rules for every possible conversation pattern. What if
someone said “Hey” instead of “Hello”? What if they used “my name
is” instead of “I’m”? Each variation would need its own rule as shown
in Listing 2.2. This gets complicated pretty quickly when you start to
think about global languages, slang, and typing mistakes people
make.
(rule "HEY"
  ((* "Hey" * "I'm" *name))
  ("Hi there" *name "I'm Eliza"))
(rule "NAME-IS"
  ((* "my name is" *name))
  ("Hi there" *name "I'm Eliza"))  
Listing 2.2     More Complex Rules in ELIZA
In our MNIST problem, we have similar or even more complex
issues. Look at the digits and try to imagine writing rules to identify
them. The task becomes surprisingly complex for several reasons:
Grayscale complexity
It’s not just black and white but multiple shades of gray. How do
we write a rule that says, “this level of gray counts as part of the

--- Strana 62 ---
digit, but that slightly lighter shade does not”? It’s almost like trying
to define exactly where dusk ends and night begins.
Style variations
Notice how each digit has its own character, that is, its own
“handwriting personality.” The zero has uneven thickness, the one
is slightly tilted, the two has a distinctive curve, and the three has
its own unique style. It’s similar to how everyone’s handwriting is
unique—some people loop their twos, and others make them
angular.
Imperfections and noise
Look at the edges of these digits—they’re not clean, crisp lines.
There are pixels that fade from dark to light, spots where the ink
might have bled slightly, and areas where the stroke isn’t perfectly
continuous. How do we write rules that account for all of these
natural variations?
Pixel patterns
Even if we tried to define rules based on pixel positions, we’d
quickly find ourselves in trouble. A slight shift in how someone
writes the number could move all the pixels by a few positions,
completely breaking our rigid rules.
This is precisely why traditional programming approaches fall short
here. We simply can’t write explicit rules like “if pixel (15,20) is black
and pixel (16,20) is gray, then this is part of a zero.” The variations
are too numerous, the patterns too subtle, and the distinctions too
nuanced for explicit programming rules to capture effectively. Instead

--- Strana 63 ---
of trying to write rules about pixel values and positions, machine
learning approaches this problem differently—by learning from
examples. Rather than telling the computer “here’s how to recognize
a three,” we show it thousands of examples of threes and let it
discover the patterns on its own. This approach can handle all the
variations, imperfections, and subtleties that make explicit rule-
writing impossible. Let’s try to do that using some code next.
Before we get started though, note that as you journey through this
book, you’ll encounter snippets of code that demonstrate key
concepts. Don’t worry if some of the code examples in the first few
chapters look complex or unfamiliar—they’re not meant to be fully
understood right away. Think of them as windows into the practical
world of machine learning, giving you glimpses of how theoretical
concepts transform into working solutions. Instead, these code
snippets serve a deeper purpose: they’re here to help you develop
an intuitive feel for machine learning. Just as a chef might learn
about flavors by tasting rather than just reading recipes, you’ll gain
insights by experimenting with these small pieces of code. Each
example is carefully chosen to illuminate a specific concept, letting
you see machine learning principles in action.
For instance, when we show you how to load and process the
MNIST dataset, the code might include terms or functions that seem
mysterious now. That’s perfectly normal! The goal isn’t to understand
every line immediately, but to start recognizing patterns and building
familiarity with how machine learning code works.

--- Strana 64 ---
As we progress through the book, we’ll dive into the internals of
Keras—the powerful tool that makes much of this code possible.
That’s when these initial code examples will start to click into place
like puzzle pieces finally finding their spot in the bigger picture. You’ll
begin to understand not just what the code does, but why it’s written
that way. For now, focus on the big picture these code examples
paint. Run them—we’ll show you how to do that in a bit—experiment
with them, and observe their behavior. Your understanding will grow
naturally as we build your knowledge foundation piece by piece.
2.1.3    Case Study in Machine Learning Code
With that at the back of your mind, let’s look at our example code for
MNIST. Listing 2.3 shows the importing of some essential libraries—
think of these as specialized toolkits that will help us explore the
world of machine learning. Just as a carpenter carefully selects their
tools before starting a project, we’ll import three powerful libraries
that form the foundation of our work.
[»]  Accessing Fully Operational Code
As mentioned in Chapter 1, all code used in this book will be
available in the resources. You can access the complete code for
this section on the resources page at https://recluze.net/keras-
book in the 02-01-mnist-basic notebook. Section 2.5 will guide
you on how to actually run these code snippets. These resources

--- Strana 65 ---
will be available on the book’s official web page at http://rheinwerk-
computing.com/6142 as well.
First up is matplotlib, accessed through its plotting interface plt.
Think of matplotlib as your digital artist’s toolkit. It helps us visualize
data in various ways—from simple line graphs to complex heatmaps.
When we’re working with image data such as handwritten digits,
matplotlib lets us actually see what our computer is working with,
turning arrays of numbers into visible images that make sense to our
human eyes.
Next, we have NumPy (imported as np), which is like the
mathematical brain of our operation. Imagine trying to juggle
thousands of numbers in your head. It’s not an easy feat, but NumPy
makes this effortless. It’s designed to handle large, complex arrays
of numbers efficiently, performing calculations at lightning speed. In
machine learning, we’re constantly working with large collections of
numbers (think pixels in images), and NumPy helps us manage
these with grace.
The third import, sklearn (specifically its datasets module), gives you
access to a well-organized library of data. Scikit-learn, as it’s fully
known, is a treasure trove of machine learning tools and example
datasets. In this case, we’re only interested in its collection of digit
images that we’ll use for learning. We use the load_digits function
to get the whole MNIST dataset. Later on in the book, we’ll come
back to sklearn and its various facilities—it’s one of my favorite
libraries, and I can’t get enough of it.

--- Strana 66 ---
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np
from sklearn import datasets
digits = datasets.load_digits()
print(digits.data.shape)  
Listing 2.3     Loading the MNIST Dataset
Finally, we peek at the structure of our data using the last line:
digits.data.shape. This command reveals the dimensions of our
dataset—how many digits we have and how many pixels make up
each digit. It’s similar to asking how many pages are in our book,
and how detailed each page is. Understanding this structure is
crucial because it tells us the scope of our learning task and helps us
plan our approach. At the moment, the shape is a simple (1797, 64).
This means that we have 1,797 handwritten images, and each image
is composed of 64 pixels. This is a little difficult to wrap our heads
around and visualize. Let’s help our libraries make sense of it.
Listing 2.4 shows the code for creating the visualizations shown in
Figure 2.1. Even though this visualization is just for us and the
machine doesn’t need it (the machine works with the underlying
numbers only), it’s a great idea to practice with such visualizations.
They will help you get closer to the way machines are working with
the data and help you debug your systems later. So, let’s see what
each line of this code does to display our digits. Line 1 creates our
display area, setting up a figure with four subplot spaces arranged in
a single row. The figure will be 15 units wide and 3 units tall. We

--- Strana 67 ---
store these subplot spaces in the axes variable (the underscore is
used because we don’t need the first returned value).
Line 2 starts a loop that processes three things simultaneously: each
subplot space (ax), the corresponding digit image, and its label (the
actual number it represents). The zip function helps us iterate
through all three sequences at once.
Lines 3–5 work with each individual subplot:
Line 3 removes the x- and y-axis markings for cleaner
visualization.
Line 4 displays the actual digit image in grayscale, keeping the
pixels sharp and clear.
Line 5 adds a title above the image showing which number this
digit represents.
When executed, this code will show us four different handwritten
digits from our dataset, each one properly labeled and displayed in
grayscale. The zip function in line 2, while basic syntax in Python, is
a very versatile tool used often to structure data into more complex
forms. It’s highly recommended that you practice with it a bit and get
used to what it does.
_, axes = plt.subplots(nrows=1, ncols=4, figsize=(15, 3))
for ax, image, label in zip(axes, digits.images, 
digits.target):
    ax.set_axis_off()
    ax.imshow(image, cmap=plt.cm.gray_r, 

--- Strana 68 ---
interpolation="nearest")
    ax.set_title("Training: %i" % label)  
Listing 2.4     Visualizing the Handwritten Digits Using Matplotlib
We can now see the images and understand that these are pixel
values. Let’s study what the machine sees though. The code in
Listing 2.5 allows us to do just this. On line 1, we’re getting the size
of our dataset. By counting the number of images, we learn exactly
how many handwritten digits we have to work with. This count is
crucial because it tells us the scope of our learning task, that is, how
many examples our computer will have to learn from.
The digits object contains various pieces of information, but we’re
particularly interested in the raw pixel values. By extracting just the
data portion in line 2, we’re streamlining our work. Lines 3 and 4 give
us our first glimpse into the actual structure of our digit data. When
we print the raw data in line 3, we see one-dimensional (1D) arrays
of numbers that represent pixel values. You can see them at the end
of the listing where the output is included. At first glance, these
numbers might seem overwhelming or meaningless. That’s perfectly
fine—the goal here isn’t to understand each number, but to start
developing a sense for how digital images are represented as data.
This exposure will prove invaluable later when we work with more
complex datasets.
The shape printed in line 4 tells us something more concrete about
our data’s organization: we have 1,797 different digit images, and
each image consists of 64 pixels (arranged in an 8×8 grid). In the

--- Strana 69 ---
pixel values, 0 means a completely white pixel and 255 means a
completely black pixel with intermediate values capturing shades of
gray. This seemingly simple piece of information is actually a crucial
blueprint of our data’s structure. When we move on to more complex
models where we can’t easily visualize the data, understanding
these structural patterns becomes essential for debugging and
optimization.
This early exposure to raw data structures, even when they seem
abstract or puzzling, is building your intuition for machine learning.
We’ll keep repeating this pattern of looking at things that only
marginally make sense until we get to the nitty-gritty of Keras where
we’ll explore these in great detail and explain everything.
# Study the data and it's shape 
n_samples = len(digits.images)
data = digits.data
print(data) 
print("Shape: ", data.shape)
# Following is the output produced by this code: 
[[ 0.  0.  5. ...  0.  0.  0.]
 [ 0.  0.  0. ... 10.  0.  0.]
...
[ 0.  0.  2. ... 12.  0.  0.]
 [ 0.  0. 10. ... 12.  1.  0.]]
Shape:  (1797, 64)  
Listing 2.5     Studying the Data to Get an Intuitive Grasp

--- Strana 70 ---
2.1.4    Structuring the Learning Process
Now that we and the machine are on the same page with the
understanding of the data, let’s go ahead and enable the machine to
actually learn. Again, this is going to be abstract at the moment. In
the next chapter, we’ll begin to define the process cleanly, but for
now, let’s explain the code given in Listing 2.6 in plain terms. While
we won’t dive into all the technical details just yet, understanding the
basic structure will set the foundation for deeper exploration later.
Lines 1–2 bring in our essential tools from the Keras library. Keras is
a specially designed workshop that makes building machine learning
systems more approachable. While the exact names and
organization of these tools may change as the field evolves (we’ll
show you how to stay current later), the core concepts remain the
same.
Lines 4–7 are where we construct our learning system. The word
Sequential in line 5 tells us we’re building a system where
information flows in one direction, from input to output, like an
assembly line. Each layer in this assembly line has a specific role in
transforming our input (digit images) into our desired output (digit
classifications).
Line 6 introduces our first Dense layer with 128 units. Pause here for
a moment—we’re essentially asking our machine to discover 128
important “things” (or features) about each digit image. We don’t
specify what these features should be; the machine will figure that
out on its own. Some units might learn to recognize curves, others

--- Strana 71 ---
might focus on angles, and others might detect more abstract
patterns we humans haven’t even thought about. The point is that
we’re not defining what is to be learned. The input shape is (64, )
because the number of pixel values in each image is 64.
[+]  Is That a Typo?
This (64, ) isn’t a typing mistake. If we wrote just (64) without a
trailing comma, that would be a number; however, (64, ) with the
comma after 64 makes it a tuple with just one element. This tip is
going to be very useful when we work with Keras input shapes.
Keep this in mind to avoid many debugging headaches later.
Finally, line 7 creates another Dense layer, but this time with 10 units.
The reason for the specific number 10 is that we want our machine
to categorize each image into one of 10 possible buckets or classes
(0–9). This layer will help our machine make its final decision about
which digit it’s looking at. The softmax function in this line ensures
that our machine’s confidence in each possibility adds up to 100%—
it might be 95% sure an image is a 7, 4% sure it’s a 1, and have tiny
amounts of confidence distributed among the other possibilities.
Understanding this structure is crucial because it represents a
fundamental pattern in machine learning—taking raw input (in our
case, 64 pixels), finding meaningful patterns (our 128-unit layer), and
using those patterns to make decisions (our 10-unit output layer). As
we progress, you’ll see this same pattern repeated and expanded in
increasingly sophisticated ways.

--- Strana 72 ---
import keras
from keras.layers import Dense
# Define the model
model = keras.Sequential([
    Dense(128, activation='relu', input_shape=(64,)),  
    Dense(10, activation='softmax')  # 10 classes (digits 0-9)
])  
Listing 2.6     Making Our Learning Black Box
Next, let’s see how we get our machine to actually learn from our
digit images. This is where we transition from setting up the structure
of our machine to enabling it to discover patterns on its own.
Line 1 in Listing 2.7 introduces the compile step, where we prepare
our machine for learning. We’re effectively giving it a learning
strategy—a methodology for how it should approach the problem of
recognizing digits. We’ll look in detail into the most important of
these learning strategies in the next chapter. For now, think of this as
setting up the rules of the game—similar to how you might teach a
child to play darts. You don’t tell them exactly how to move their arm
or precisely what angle to use, but you do give them a strategy:
“Start by aiming for the center,” “Pay attention to whether you’re
hitting too high or too low,” “Make small adjustments based on where
your last throw landed.” The child learns through practice, gradually
refining their technique based on the results of each throw.
In our machine, the compile step establishes similar learning
guidelines. We’re not telling the machine “thick loops mean it’s a

--- Strana 73 ---
zero” or “a vertical line with a hat means it’s a seven.” Instead, we’re
giving it a systematic way to learn from its mistakes: how big of
adjustments to make when it’s wrong, how to measure how far off it
was, and how to balance between dramatic changes and subtle
refinements. Just as the dart player learns to make increasingly
precise throws by observing their misses, our machine will learn to
make increasingly accurate predictions by analyzing its errors.
In line 2, we prepare our target values—the correct answers for each
digit image. When we examined our dataset earlier, we had the
images themselves (the input) and labels telling us what digit each
image represents (the output). These labels are crucial because
they’re what the machine will use to check its work and improve its
understanding.
Line 3 contains the part where actual learning takes place—the fit
operation. During this process, the machine begins examining our
digit images and their corresponding labels. It starts making
predictions about what digit each image represents, compares these
predictions to the correct answers, and adjusts its internal
understanding based on where it made mistakes.
What’s particularly intriguing about this approach is how different it is
from our earlier look at ELIZA’s rule-based system given in
Listing 2.1 and Listing 2.2. In ELIZA, we had to explicitly write rules
like “if you see this pattern, respond this way.” But here, we’re not
writing any rules about what makes a 7 look like a 7. Instead, we’re
letting the machine discover these patterns on its own within those

--- Strana 74 ---
128 learning units we specified earlier. This is the true power of
machine learning—we don’t program the rules, we program the
ability to learn rules. Those 128 things our machine learns about
each image aren’t features we chose or defined; they’re patterns the
machine discovers through its training process. Some might be
obvious features such as loops or straight lines, while others might
be more abstract patterns that even we humans might not have
thought to look for.
model.compile(optimizer='adam',
              loss='sparse_categorical_crossentropy',  
              metrics=['accuracy'])
# Reshape the target variable to be a 2D array for Keras
y = digits.target.reshape(-1, 1) # Learn! 
model.fit(data, digits.target, epochs=10)  
Listing 2.7     Learning from Data
Now that our machine has gone through its learning process, it’s
time to see what it has actually learned. Think of this as the moment
after a study session when we check whether real understanding
has taken place. Lines 1–2 in Listing 2.8 show our machine
performing a self-assessment. Just as a student might work through
practice problems and check their answers, our machine looks at the
digit images and makes predictions, comparing them against the
correct answers we provided. This evaluation gives us metrics about
how well the machine is performing overall.

--- Strana 75 ---
At this point, you might be thinking that since we’ve just shown the
machine these same images during training, maybe it’s just
memorizing everything, like a student who remembers exactly where
each answer appears in their textbook rather than understanding the
underlying concepts. This observation gets at the heart of machine
learning. The difference between memorization and true learning is
crucial, and we’ll explore this distinction in detail later when we
discuss concepts such as overfitting and generalization. For now,
keep this skepticism in mind—it’s exactly the kind of critical thinking
that makes for good machine learning practitioners.
Lines 3–4 represent something slightly different—here we’re doing
our own independent evaluation. Rather than asking the machine to
grade itself, we’re asking it to make predictions that we can then
analyze in detail. The predicted variable now contains all the
machine’s guesses about what digit each image represents. This is
like collecting a student’s answers without marking them yet,
allowing us to perform our own detailed analysis of where they
succeeded and where they might have struggled.
This two-pronged approach to evaluation—both self-assessment and
independent analysis—gives us a more complete picture of what our
machine has learned. The machine’s self-evaluation provides quick
performance metrics, while our separate prediction collection allows
us to dig deeper into specific cases where the machine might be
consistently making certain types of mistakes or showing interesting
patterns in its predictions.

--- Strana 76 ---
# Evaluate the model
_, _ = model.evaluate(data, digits.target, verbose=0)
# Predict the value of the digit on the test 
predicted = model.predict(data)  
Listing 2.8     The Machine Makes Predictions
The code in Listing 2.9 helps us visualize both what we show the
machine and what it thinks it’s seeing. Lines 1–2 set up our plot
where we’ll display our results. In line 3, we’re selecting the digit
from our dataset to examine. This could be any number in our
dataset, and changing this value lets us explore different examples
to see how our machine performs with various digits.
Lines 4–5 handle the display of our chosen digit. Here, where we
reshape the 64-element array back into an 8×8 grid so that we can
actually see the digit. The machine learns from the flat list of 64
numbers, but we humans prefer to see it as a proper digit image.
Finally, line 7 looks up what digit this actually is in our original
dataset, and line 8 examines what our machine thought this digit was
by looking at its predictions. The argmax function here finds which of
the 10 possible digits (0–9) our machine thought was most likely.
fig, ax = plt.subplots(figsize=(7, 5))
num_to_show = 25  
image = data[num_to_show].reshape(8, 8)
_ = ax.imshow(image, cmap=plt.cm.gray_r, 
interpolation="nearest")

--- Strana 77 ---
actual_digit = digits.target[num_to_show]
predicted_digit = np.argmax(predicted[num_to_show])  
Listing 2.9     Visualizing and Evaluating Predictions
[ ! ]  Argmax for Finding Predictions
The argmax function is similar to but not the same as the max
function. argmax finds the position of the maximum value in a list as
opposed to the maximum value itself. For instance, max([1.1, 2.2,
8.4, 5.6]) will return 8.4, but argmax([1.1, 2.2, 8.4, 5.6]) will
return 2—the position in the list of the maximum value. It’s a
simple concept that makes our code very compact.
2.1.5    Analyzing the Machine’s Learning Process
Let’s go ahead and look at some of the predictions made by the
machine. The first one in Figure 2.2. is a simple example. Looking at
the pixel layout in this image, we can see why our machine learning
model had no trouble identifying this as the digit 5. It’s a relatively
clean and well-formed example of the digit, making it an ideal case
for our model to recognize. The black pixels form a distinctive pattern
that’s characteristic of a 5—we can trace the clear top horizontal line,
the curve down the right side, and the loop at the bottom. The
grayscale values are also quite distinct, with strong contrasts
between the digit and the background, making the features of the
number stand out clearly. Do keep in mind that we don’t really know

--- Strana 78 ---
what patterns the machine has actually learned. We just think this is
what the machine might have learned.
Figure 2.2     A Simple Example of a Digit Correctly Identified
Let’s look at another example in Figure 2.3 that’s slightly more
difficult—at least for humans.
Looking at this image, we can see a slightly more challenging
example of the digit 2, but our model is still performing nicely.
Despite the increased complexity, the machine correctly identified it,
which tells us something interesting about how well our model has
learned to recognize key features of numbers.
This particular 2 has some characteristics that make it more complex
than simpler examples. The top curve is less defined, and there’s

--- Strana 79 ---
some variability in the pixel intensities along its path. The diagonal
stroke that typically forms the bottom of a 2 shows varying degrees
of darkness, suggesting either the original writing pressure varied or
the digitization process captured some nuance in the pen stroke.
What’s particularly impressive is how our model handled these
variations. The pixels show a range of grayscale values—you can
see the gradient from dark to light, especially in the middle section of
the digit. In a simpler example, we might see more binary black-and-
white values, but the model had to work with more subtle distinctions
here.
Despite these complexities, our model confidently and correctly
identified this as a 2. This suggests the model learned not just the
basic shape of a 2 but also how to handle variations in writing style
and intensity. It’s like the difference between recognizing someone’s
face in perfect lighting versus being able to identify them in varying

--- Strana 80 ---
light conditions—our model seems to have developed this more
robust kind of understanding.
Figure 2.3     An Intermediate Example with Some Complexity
Finally, let’s look at a much more complex example in Figure 2.4.
This is a great example that really highlights the surprising
capabilities of machine learning! Here, we have a digit that, to
human eyes like mine (and possibly yours), barely resembles a
traditional 9. If someone showed this to us without context, we might
struggle to identify it. However, both the original writer and our
machine learning model confidently identified it as a 9.
This reveals something remarkable about pattern recognition in
machine learning. Our model isn’t constrained by the same

--- Strana 81 ---
preconceptions humans have about how numbers should look. It’s
learned to recognize features and patterns that we might not even be
consciously aware of. While we might be looking for the classic loop-
and-tail structure of a 9, our model has learned a broader set of
characteristics that can identify a 9 in various forms. The pixel
intensity pattern here is particularly interesting. You can see a sort of
curved structure at the top and a diagonal element trailing down—
perhaps these are the key features that both the original writer and
our model associate with a 9, even though they’re arranged in what
looks to us like an unusual configuration.
Figure 2.4     A Difficult-to-Identify Example Still Correctly Recognized
This example also reminds us of an important principle in machine
learning: sometimes the hardest cases for humans aren’t necessarily

--- Strana 82 ---
the hardest cases for machines, and vice versa. It’s a humbling
reminder that artificial and human intelligence can complement each
other by bringing their own unique strengths to pattern recognition
tasks.
2.1.6    Lessons Learned from the Code Case Study
Through this example with handwritten digits, we’ve uncovered
something remarkable about machine learning. What started as a
simple question—“Can a computer recognize handwritten
numbers?”—led us to discover fundamental principles that shape
how machines learn. Remember how we began by considering the
traditional programming approach with ELIZA’s explicit rules? We
saw how quickly that approach becomes overwhelming when
dealing with the countless variations in handwriting. Then we
witnessed a very elegant alternative: by showing our machine
thousands of examples and letting it discover patterns on its own, it
learned to recognize digits we could barely decipher ourselves.
Our exploration revealed several key insights. First, we saw how
data becomes the teacher, replacing rigid rules with learned
patterns. Those 128 things our network learned about each image
weren’t features we prescribed; instead, they were patterns the
machine discovered through exposure to many examples. Some of
these patterns were obvious, such as loops and lines, while others
were subtle features that even human eyes might not consciously
recognize. The process we worked through—preparing data,

--- Strana 83 ---
building a model, training it, and evaluating its performance—
represents a fundamental workflow in machine learning. These
steps, though implemented differently, appear across various
machine learning applications, from speech recognition to medical
diagnosis. We’ll flesh them out in much more detail in the next
chapter.
But what we’ve explored here is just one type of machine learning. In
this approach, we provided our machine with both the input (digit
images) and the desired output (correct digit labels). It’s like learning
with a teacher who shows you both the questions and the answers.
In the next section, we’ll discover that machines can learn in other
ways too. Sometimes, they learn without being told the correct
answers, and they find patterns and structures on their own. Other
times, they learn through trial and error, like a child exploring a new
game. Each approach has its own strengths and ideal applications,
expanding the possibilities of what machines can learn and how they
can help us solve increasingly complex problems.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 84 ---
2.2    Types of Machine Learning
Before we dive into how machines learn, let’s reflect on what we
mean by learning in general, using the most natural example we
have: a child’s development. Children learn to interact with the world
in many different ways, each suited to different types of knowledge
and skills. These learning processes mirror the varied approaches
used in machine learning. Take a look at Figure 2.5 for different
sources of learning. Sometimes, learning is explicit and
straightforward. A parent points to an apple and says, “This is red.”
Or a teacher marks math homework as correct or incorrect. These
are examples of direct instruction, where the “right answer” is
unambiguous and feedback is immediate.
Figure 2.5     Common Sources of Learning
But much of childhood learning is more nuanced. Consider how
children learn language—not through grammar books, but by
absorbing patterns from conversations. They make mistakes such as
saying “goed” instead of “went,” showing how they internalize rules

--- Strana 85 ---
through observation and trial and error. Or think about how they
learn to balance on a bicycle. They can’t explain the physics, yet
through repeated failure and persistence, they figure it out. This kind
of learning—intuitive, experiential, and often hard to verbalize—is
especially relevant when we later explore reinforcement learning.
Social learning adds another layer. Children also learn by watching
others—picking up table manners, understanding social cues, and
figuring out playground games not just through instruction but
through participation and imitation.
What’s remarkable is how these types of learning often work
together. A child baking cookies with a parent might receive direct
instructions, observe patterns, experiment, and develop intuition—all
at once. Similarly, machine learning involves a combination of
methods, each suited to different problems and data. Understanding
this diversity in human learning helps us appreciate the range of
techniques used in machine learning.
When a machine learns with clear, labeled examples—like a child
being taught that “this is red”—we call this supervised learning.
When it must discover patterns and structure on its own—like a child
figuring out how to group similar toys together—we call this
unsupervised learning. Sometimes, we provide a mix of labeled and
unlabeled data, leading to what we call semi-supervised learning.
And in some fascinating cases, we let machines learn through trial
and error and rewards—just as a child learns to ride a bike or play a
game—which we call reinforcement learning.

--- Strana 86 ---
In the following sections, we’ll explore each of these learning
paradigms in detail. We’ll see how they mirror different aspects of
human learning while developing their own unique characteristics
that make them powerful tools in the world of AI. Let’s begin by
talking about the most common type—supervised learning.
2.2.1    Supervised Learning
Supervised learning is the most straightforward type of learning,
where there’s a clear relationship between teacher and student.
Earlier, we talked about a parent pointing to an apple and saying,
“This is red,” but let’s see how this type of learning actually works in
practice.
Picture a parent and child sitting with a picture book of animals. The
parent points to each animal and provides its name: “This is a
giraffe. See its long neck? This is a penguin—notice how it has
flippers instead of wings?” What’s interesting here isn’t just the
simple labeling. It’s how the parent naturally highlights the distinctive
features that make each animal unique. Over time, the child learns
not just to memorize specific pictures but to recognize the key
characteristics that define each animal. When they see a new picture
of a giraffe from a different angle, they can still identify it because
they’ve learned what makes a giraffe, a giraffe.
This process becomes even more critical when the stakes are
higher. Consider a cooking instructor teaching students about
mushroom foraging. They can’t possibly show examples of every

--- Strana 87 ---
mushroom their students might encounter. Instead, they teach by
highlighting crucial patterns: “See these distinctive gills? This
particular color? The ring around the stem?” They’ll show many
examples of both safe and dangerous mushrooms, repeatedly
emphasizing the critical features that distinguish them. The goal isn’t
just to memorize specific mushrooms but to develop a reliable
system for identifying safe ones in new situations.
In addition, think about a master craftsperson teaching an apprentice
to select quality wood. The teaching goes beyond simple yes/no
judgments. The master might knock on different pieces to
demonstrate how good wood sounds different from poor-quality
timber. They might show how to examine grain patterns,
demonstrate the feel of different moisture levels, or explain how to
spot signs of disease or infestation. Each piece of wood becomes a
lesson, with the master carefully pointing out the subtle indicators
that an untrained eye might miss.
In all of these cases, notice how the learning follows a clear pattern.
First, there’s an expert who knows the correct answers. Second,
they provide examples where both the input (the animal picture,
mushroom, or piece of wood) and the desired output (the animal’s
name, safe/dangerous classification, or quality assessment) are
clearly defined. Finally, and most importantly, the goal isn’t just to
memorize specific cases but to learn the underlying patterns that will
help identify new, unseen examples correctly.

--- Strana 88 ---
This type of guided learning with clear right and wrong answers
forms the foundation of supervised learning in machine learning.
Let’s see what makes this type of learning work so well. At its heart,
this approach relies on having examples where we know the correct
answer. Think back to our mushroom foraging class. Each time the
instructor shows a mushroom, they provide two crucial pieces of
information: the mushroom itself (with all of its characteristics) and
the definitive answer about whether it’s safe to eat. This pairing of
example and answer is critical—it’s not enough to just see lots of
mushrooms or to just hear about which ones are safe. The learning
happens when you connect the two.
The role of the teacher—whether it’s our mushroom instructor, the
parent with the picture book, or the master craftsperson—goes
beyond just providing answers. They’re curating a learning
experience. They choose examples that highlight important
differences, they ensure all important variations are covered, and
they often deliberately show tricky cases that might trip up a learner.
When teaching about safe mushrooms, a good instructor will make
sure to show examples of dangerous mushrooms that look similar to
safe ones.
But here’s where things get interesting: the true measure of learning
isn’t how well you remember the examples you’ve seen—it’s how
well you handle new situations. A child who has only memorized the
specific animals in their picture book hasn’t truly learned what a
giraffe is. Real learning happens when they can identify a giraffe
they’ve never seen before, perhaps from a different angle or partially

--- Strana 89 ---
hidden behind trees. This ability to handle new, unseen examples is
what we’re really after.
This brings us to a crucial point: the number of examples matters a
lot. Consider trying to learn to identify safe mushrooms from just
three examples. Even if those examples are perfect, they simply
can’t capture enough variation to build reliable judgment. You need
to see many examples of both safe and dangerous mushrooms in
different lighting conditions, at different stages of growth, and from
different angles. Each new example adds to your understanding,
helping you build a more complete picture of what makes a
mushroom safe or dangerous.
[+]  Variation in the Number of Examples
Beginners usually make this mistake of thinking that more data is
always good. While that’s true in many cases, simply getting more
of the same type of data isn’t that useful. It’s the variety of data
that really helps machine learn. Be sure to keep this in mind when
we get to engineering issues related to machine learning.
The same applies to our woodworking example. The apprentice can’t
develop reliable judgment by examining just a few pieces of wood.
They need to see hundreds of examples: different species, different
cuts, different conditions. Each piece of wood, along with the
master’s assessment, adds another data point to their
understanding. Over time, patterns emerge, and what once seemed
like subtle differences become obvious distinctions.

--- Strana 90 ---
Real-World Stakes
Let’s see how this type of learning applies in real-world situations,
where the stakes can range from minor inconvenience to life-and-
death decisions. Each application shows both the power and
responsibility that comes with automated decision-making.
Consider email spam filtering—perhaps the most ubiquitous example
of supervised learning that most of us interact with daily. While a
misclassified email might seem trivial, the global impact is enormous.
Businesses lose an estimated $20.5 billion annually to spam-related
productivity drops and cybersecurity issues. Every day, email
systems must process billions of messages, learning to distinguish
between legitimate business communications and potentially harmful
spam. The system learns from millions of examples where humans
have previously marked emails as either spam or legitimate. What
makes this task particularly challenging is that spammers constantly
adapt their tactics, meaning the system must continuously learn from
new examples to stay effective.
Moving to higher stakes, medical imaging systems represent a
crucial application where accuracy can be a matter of life and death.
These systems assist radiologists in identifying potential tumors in X-
rays, MRIs, and other medical images. The human impact here is
profound—early detection can significantly improve the chances of
an agreeable outcome. The cost of errors runs both ways: a false
positive (telling a patient they have cancer when they don’t) leads to
unnecessary stress and expensive follow-up procedures, while a

--- Strana 91 ---
false negative (telling a patient they’re healthy when they actually
have a malignant tumor) could mean missing a critical early-stage
tumor. Training these systems requires thousands of carefully
labeled medical images, each requiring expert radiologist time to
annotate—a resource that’s both expensive and scarce.
Banks use supervised learning to assess loan applications, a task
where fairness and accuracy have significant financial and social
implications. These systems learn from historical data about which
loans were repaid and which weren’t. While this automation can
process applications more quickly and consistently than human
reviewers, it comes with serious responsibilities. A single incorrect
decision can affect someone’s ability to buy a home or start a
business. Moreover, if the historical data contains biases, the system
might perpetuate or even amplify these biases, which is a crucial
ethical consideration that banks must actively address.
Voice assistants represent a more everyday application but one that
showcases the complexity of modern supervised learning. These
systems must learn to understand spoken commands in different
accents, with background noise, and in various contexts. The cost of
errors here might seem small—having to repeat a command is
merely annoying—but multiply that by millions of users, and the
economic impact becomes significant. Companies invest heavily in
collecting diverse voice samples to train these systems, ensuring
they work reliably for users regardless of accent, age, or speech
pattern.

--- Strana 92 ---
Perhaps one of the most visible applications is in autonomous
vehicles, where supervised learning helps cars identify traffic signs,
pedestrians, and other vehicles. The stakes here are immediately
apparent as mistakes could lead to accidents with severe
consequences. Training these systems requires enormous datasets
of labeled images and video taken under every conceivable
condition, such as different weather, lighting, and traffic situations.
The cost of collecting and labeling this data is substantial, but it’s a
necessary investment, given the potential human cost of errors. A
system that fails to recognize a stop sign even 0.1% of the time is
unacceptable for deployment on real roads.
What’s particularly interesting about these examples is how they
demonstrate different aspects of supervised learning’s challenges
and responsibilities. In email filtering, the challenge is adapting to
ever-changing patterns. In medical imaging, it’s achieving extremely
high accuracy with limited training data. In loan assessment, it’s
ensuring fairness and transparency. In voice recognition, it’s
handling infinite variations of human speech. And, in autonomous
vehicles, it’s maintaining reliability under any possible condition.
Key Aspects of the Learning Process
Now that we’ve seen where supervised learning is used in the real
world, let’s peek under the hood to understand how this learning
actually happens. The process might surprise you with its similarity
to how we learn through trial and error. When a machine first starts

--- Strana 93 ---
learning, it begins much like a student taking their first guess on a
new topic—often quite poorly. Consider our email system looking at
its first email. Having no real understanding yet, it might make
completely random guesses about whether messages are spam or
not. Or think of a medical imaging system seeing its first X-ray—its
initial attempts at identifying abnormalities would be no better than
random chance.
Every time the system makes a guess, it can compare its answer to
the correct one provided by human experts. An email system might
guess that a message about a family reunion is spam, but when it
sees that users consistently mark similar messages as legitimate, it
begins to adjust its thinking. This comparison between the guess and
the correct answer is crucial—it’s like a teacher marking a test and
showing exactly where the student went wrong. The real magic
happens in how the system adjusts based on these mistakes. Unlike
a human student who might need to figure out why they got
something wrong, our machine follows a more systematic approach.
When it makes a mistake, it doesn’t just try to memorize that specific
example. Instead, it makes small adjustments to its general
understanding. If it mistakenly flags emails containing the word
“family” as spam, it gradually learns to weight that word differently in
its decisions.
This learning process is intentionally gradual. Think back about
learning to ride a bicycle—you don’t suddenly go from not being able
to balance to being an expert cyclist. Instead, you make small
adjustments with each attempt. Maybe you learn to lean slightly left

--- Strana 94 ---
when you start tilting right, or to pedal a bit faster when you feel
unsteady. Our machine learning systems follow a similar principle.
Each example leads to small adjustments, and these small changes
add up over time to create significant improvements.
[+]  Gradual Learning Is Good Learning
The point about gradual learning is very important. You’ll see in the
next chapter that it has an impact on whether our machine can
actually learn. Consider what might happen if we learn something
too fast.
The power of this approach lies in its ability to handle many
examples quickly. While a human might get overwhelmed trying to
remember thousands of specific cases, our machine can process
millions of examples, making tiny adjustments for each one. This is
why the email spam filter can handle the enormous variety of
possible spam messages, or why a medical imaging system can
recognize subtle patterns that might not be obvious to the human
eye.
Consider how this plays out in our autonomous vehicle example. The
first time the system sees a stop sign in the rain, at night, partially
obscured by a tree branch, it might miss it entirely. But after seeing
thousands of stop signs in different conditions, it starts to develop a
robust understanding. Each mistake leads to an adjustment, and
each adjustment makes the system a bit more reliable. The system
isn’t memorizing specific stop signs it has seen—it’s learning the

--- Strana 95 ---
fundamental patterns that make a stop sign recognizable under any
conditions.
What’s particularly interesting is how this process mirrors human
learning while also differing from it in important ways. Like humans,
these systems learn through experience and improve with practice.
But unlike humans, they can do the following:
Process thousands of examples in seconds.
Make precise, mathematical adjustments to their understanding.
Maintain consistent performance without getting tired or
distracted.
Apply their learning with the same thoroughness to every new
example.
This combination of human-like learning patterns with machine-like
precision and scale is what makes supervised learning so powerful
in practice. But it also highlights some of the key challenges we face
in implementing these systems effectively—challenges we’ll explore
next.
Common Challenges and Limitations
While supervised learning is powerful, it comes with its own set of
challenges that anyone working with these systems needs to
understand. Let’s study these limitations through our real-world
examples as they reveal important practical concerns that affect how
we implement these systems.

--- Strana 96 ---
The first and most fundamental challenge is the need for many
labeled examples—often many more than you might initially expect.
Think back to our medical imaging system. To reliably identify
potential tumors, it needs to see thousands of different examples of
both healthy tissue and various types of tumors. Each of these
images needs to be carefully labeled by experienced radiologists. It’s
trying to teach someone to identify mushrooms, but instead of
needing dozens of examples, you need thousands or even millions
to achieve reliable performance.
This leads us to our second challenge: the cost and time required to
get these labels. In our email spam example, we can easily get
labels because users naturally mark spam as they encounter it.
However, consider autonomous vehicles—every frame of video
needs to be meticulously labeled to identify cars, pedestrians, signs,
and other objects. This labeling process is expensive and time-
consuming. A single hour of video might take days to label properly,
with teams of people carefully marking every relevant object in every
frame. It can take millions of dollars and huge amounts of human
effort to create these labeled datasets. As an example, see the
growth of labeled versus unlabeled protein data in Figure 2.6 (you
can find a full color version of this chart and all other images in this
book online at http://rheinwerk-computing.com/6142 or on the
resources page here: https://recluze.net/keras-book). The GenBank
and EMBL data is unlabeled data about protein sequences, whereas
the PDB line shows data that has received labels from either
humans or automated processes. It’s not necessary for you to

--- Strana 97 ---
understand what the data actually shows about proteins. It’s
sufficient to note that the unlabeled data grows at a much faster
pace. This gap has been increasing exponentially, and it doesn’t
seem that we’ll be able to bridge it in the foreseeable future. This is
true almost universally for all sorts of domains, and the problem is
getting even worse. The amount of data generated in all fields of life
is exponentially increasing due to the permeating use of technology,
and the human effort required simply can’t keep up.
Figure 2.6     Growth of Labeled versus Unlabeled Data
But even when we’re willing to invest the time and money, we face
another subtle but critical challenge: What happens when some of
our labels are wrong? Consider the impact of a tired radiologist
accidentally mislabeling some medical images or a distracted worker
incorrectly marking objects in autonomous vehicle training data.
These incorrect labels are like a teacher giving wrong answers—they
can confuse our learning system and lead to decreased
performance. What makes this particularly challenging is that it’s
often hard to identify which labels are incorrect. In our mushroom

--- Strana 98 ---
example, even expert foragers occasionally disagree about certain
specimens.
Perhaps the most interesting challenge emerges when our systems
face completely new situations—scenarios they haven’t encountered
in their training data. Consider our autonomous vehicle encountering
a new type of construction sign it’s never seen before or our medical
imaging system facing a rare type of abnormality that wasn’t present
in its training data. This is similar to our mushroom forager
encountering an entirely new species—without prior examples to
learn from, making reliable decisions becomes much more difficult.
These limitations can interact in complex ways. For example, the
need for lots of labeled data becomes even more challenging when
we’re trying to prepare our systems for rare situations. How do we
get enough labeled examples of rare medical conditions? How do we
ensure our autonomous vehicles can handle unusual traffic
scenarios they might only encounter once in a million miles of
driving?
[ ! ]  Rare Situations in the Age of Big Data
Having limited data is a critical challenge in modern computing
ecosystems where machines rely on massive datasets. Domains
with scarce data present significant obstacles for systems
designed to learn from abundant inputs. To address these edge
cases effectively, we must develop approaches that can function
reliably even with limited examples. Creating models that perform

--- Strana 99 ---
well on rare or underrepresented data remains essential for
building truly robust and generalizable AI systems.
Particularly important is how these challenges often force us to make
practical trade-offs. Do we spend more money to get more labeled
data, or do we try to make better use of the data we have? Do we
accept that our system might be less reliable in rare situations, or do
we invest heavily in finding and labeling examples of these edge
cases? There’s rarely a perfect answer, and different applications
might require different approaches. This doesn’t mean supervised
learning isn’t valuable—far from it. However, understanding these
limitations helps us make better decisions about when and how to
apply these systems. It also helps explain why we sometimes need
to combine supervised learning with other approaches, something
we’ll explore in later chapters. Most importantly, it reminds us that
while these systems can be remarkably powerful, they’re not magic
—they’re tools that need to be used thoughtfully and with a clear
awareness of their limitations.
Types of Target Answers
So far, we’ve looked at various examples of supervised learning, but
you might have noticed that the type of answer we’re looking for isn’t
always the same. Let’s discuss these different types of answers our
systems might need to provide, as understanding them helps us
better grasp what’s possible with supervised learning. Based on

--- Strana 100 ---
these answer types, we can categorize machine learning into
subtypes, as shown in Figure 2.7.
The simplest type of answer is a straightforward yes or no decision.
Our email spam filter is a perfect example—each message is either
spam or not spam, with no middle ground. In machine learning, we
call this binary classification because we’re classifying inputs into
one of two possible categories. Similar binary decisions appear in
many critical applications: Is this transaction fraudulent? Should we
approve this loan? Does this medical test indicate a particular
condition? While these decisions might be based on a complex
analysis of many factors, the final answer is always one of two
possibilities. However, this simplicity in the output can be deceptive
because the reasoning behind that binary classification often
involves weighing many subtle factors.
Figure 2.7     Types of Machine Learning Based on Answers
Moving up in complexity, we often want to choose from several
categories—what we call multi-class classification. Remember our

--- Strana 101 ---
earlier example of identifying animals in photos? This isn’t a simple
yes/no question; instead, the system needs to decide which animal
from many possibilities is in the image. A system might need to
distinguish between dozens or even hundreds of different species.
Similarly, in a medical diagnosis, a system might need to categorize
an X-ray into one of many possible conditions, or in manufacturing, a
quality control system might need to classify defects into different
types. Each possible answer is distinct, and there’s usually no
meaningful “in-between” state—an animal is either a giraffe or it isn’t.
Sometimes, what we want isn’t a classification at all but a number. In
machine learning, we call this regression, which is predicting a
continuous numerical value. Think about predicting house prices—
we’re not asking for a yes/no decision or a category but rather a
specific numerical value. This type of answer brings its own
interesting challenges. When predicting a house’s price, being off by
$1,000 on a house that costs $5 million might be acceptable, while
being off by the same amount on a $50,000 house would be a
significant error. Other regression examples include predicting a
customer’s likely purchase amount, estimating the remaining lifetime
of a machine part, or forecasting tomorrow’s temperature. In these
cases, our answers exist on a continuous spectrum rather than in
discrete categories.
The most complex situations involve outputs that combine multiple
elements or have intricate structures—sometimes combining
classification and regression in the same problem. Consider an
autonomous vehicle analyzing a street scene—it needs to identify

--- Strana 102 ---
multiple objects (multi-class classification for cars, pedestrians,
signs), their locations (regression for precise coordinates), their
movements, and how they relate to each other. Or think about a
system that generates detailed descriptions of medical images, not
just identifying abnormalities but describing their size, location, and
characteristics. These complex outputs might combine numbers,
categories, and multiple classifications all at once.
These different types of answers require different approaches to
learning:
For binary classification, the system needs to learn a clear
boundary between the two possibilities.
For multi-class classification, the system needs to learn the
distinctive features that separate each category from all others.
For multi-label classification, we still predict categories, but we
don’t have to pick just one. Categories in this case won’t be
mutually exclusive.
For regression, the system needs to understand how different
factors influence the final numerical prediction.
For complex outputs, the system needs to learn not just individual
elements but how they fit together.
Understanding these different types of answers helps us appreciate
both the flexibility and the limitations of supervised learning. It also
helps explain why some problems are harder than others as binary
classification is generally easier than multi-class classification, which

--- Strana 103 ---
in turn is often simpler than complex problems combining multiple
types of predictions. But regardless of whether we’re doing
classification or regression, the core principle remains the same: we
learn from examples where we know the correct answer, whether
that answer is a simple binary choice or a rich, detailed description.
But what happens when we don’t have the correct answers? What if
we need to learn from data without any labels at all? This brings us
to our next topic: unsupervised learning.
2.2.2    Unsupervised Learning
Unsupervised learning is the type of learning where there are no
right or wrong answers, only patterns waiting to be discovered. While
this might sound strange after our discussion of supervised learning,
it’s actually something we encounter every day.
Watch a young child playing with a collection of toys. Without any
instruction, they might naturally start sorting them into groups. Some
children might organize by color, putting all the red toys together.
Others might group by size, or by type (all the cars in one pile, all the
stuffed animals in another). See Figure 2.8 for an example of
grouping different objects based on different criteria. What’s
important to note is that none of these arrangements is “correct” or
“incorrect”—they’re just different ways of recognizing patterns. The

--- Strana 104 ---
child isn’t following rules they were taught; they’re discovering
natural relationships in their environment.
Figure 2.8     Unguided Unsupervised Learning Might Produce Unneeded Results
This natural pattern-finding behavior appears in many contexts.
Consider how a grocery store organizes its products. While some
groupings are obvious (all produce together), others are less clear-
cut. Should tomatoes go with vegetables or fruits? Should gluten-
free products be in their own section or distributed among their
respective categories? Different stores make different choices
because there’s no single “right” way to organize—it depends on
what patterns and relationships you consider most important.
Perhaps the most poetic example of human pattern-finding is how
we see constellations in the night sky. The stars aren’t actually
connected or grouped in any physical way—they might be vastly
different distances from Earth. Yet our brains naturally find patterns
in these random points of light, creating pictures and stories.
Different cultures have found different patterns in the same stars,
showing how pattern recognition can be both natural and culturally
influenced.

--- Strana 105 ---
These examples highlight a key aspect of this type of learning: the
patterns are discovered rather than taught. Unlike in supervised
learning, where we had clear examples of right and wrong answers,
here we’re looking for natural structure in the data itself. This
approach opens up fascinating possibilities for discovering patterns
we might not have known to look for—but it also brings its own
unique challenges depending on the unique practical application.
Real-World Applications of Unsupervised Learning
Let’s explore how this pattern-finding approach translates into
practical applications, starting with familiar business scenarios and
moving to more complex scientific and technical uses.
Marketing teams have long sought to understand their customers
better, but manually grouping thousands or millions of customers is
impossible. This is the concept of customer segmentation through
unsupervised learning. By analyzing purchase histories, browsing
behavior, and demographic data, these systems discover natural
clusters of customers. One group might be price-sensitive bargain
hunters who mainly shop during sales, while another might be early
adopters who always buy the latest products. These discovered
patterns help businesses tailor their marketing strategies, optimize
inventory, and even design new products for specific customer
segments. This is the process of clustering.
In manufacturing, the challenge often isn’t finding similar things but
finding what doesn’t fit the pattern. Anomaly detection systems

--- Strana 106 ---
monitor production lines, analyzing data from sensors to identify
potential problems before they become critical. Consider a factory
producing computer chips: the system might notice that one
machine’s temperature patterns are slightly different from all others,
flagging it for maintenance before it fails. This predictive approach
can save millions in prevented downtime and reduce waste.
Document clustering tackles the massive scale of digital information.
When you use a search engine, it needs to understand how billions
of documents relate to each other. Unsupervised learning helps
organize this vast collection by finding documents that cover similar
topics, even if they use different words. This is why searching for “car
maintenance” might also bring up relevant articles about “automobile
repair”—the system has learned these topics are related without
being explicitly told.
Recommendation systems combine multiple types of patterns to
suggest products, content, or connections. While Netflix and
Amazon’s recommendations might seem like magic, they’re actually
finding patterns in what different users watch or buy, what items are
often consumed together, and how preferences change over time.
These systems don’t just match you with things similar to what
you’ve liked before. Instead, they discover complex patterns of user
behavior that help predict what you might enjoy next.
In biology, unsupervised learning has opened new frontiers in
understanding genes. Scientists use these techniques to analyze
vast datasets of genetic information, discovering groups of genes

--- Strana 107 ---
that work together or patterns in how genes are expressed in
different conditions. These discoveries have led to breakthroughs in
understanding diseases, developing treatments, and even predicting
how different patients might respond to specific medications. This
field of precision medicine has huge potential for the future.
Perhaps one of the most critical applications is in cybersecurity,
where network traffic analysis helps protect systems from attacks. By
learning the normal patterns of network activity, these systems can
identify suspicious behavior that doesn’t fit the usual pattern. What
makes this particularly challenging is that “normal” traffic patterns
change constantly, and attackers are always developing new
techniques. The system must continuously update its understanding
of what constitutes normal behavior while being sensitive enough to
flag genuine anomalies.
What’s particularly interesting about these applications is how they
highlight different aspects of pattern finding:
Customer segmentation shows how patterns can reveal hidden
structures in seemingly chaotic data.
Anomaly detection demonstrates how understanding normal
patterns helps identify what’s unusual.
Document clustering illustrates how patterns can exist at massive
scales.
Recommendation systems show how multiple patterns can
interact in complex ways.

--- Strana 108 ---
Genetic analysis reveals how patterns can lead to scientific
discoveries.
Network analysis shows how patterns can evolve over time.
In each case, the power of unsupervised learning comes from its
ability to discover patterns we might not have known to look for.
[ ! ]  Unsupervised Learning Is a Double-edged Sword
Unlike supervised learning, where we start with known categories
or outcomes, these applications let the data reveal its own
structure, which often leads to insights that human experts might
have missed. It might also lead to results that aren’t of interest to
us though. That’s a double-edged sword we need to be wary of.
The Learning Process and Challenges
Let’s peek behind the curtain to understand how unsupervised
learning actually works and why it can be both powerful and
challenging. Remember our child organizing toys? Their process of
grouping similar items together reveals many of the key principles—
and difficulties—that our machine learning systems face. This brings
us to one of the core concepts: measuring similarity. Try to think of
applying the concept of similarity on two books., We might say two
books are similar if they share the same author. But what if one book
has multiple authors? What if we care about both author and genre?
This is where the concept of distance comes in—not physical

--- Strana 109 ---
distance, but how different two items are across multiple
characteristics. Just as you might say two colors are “close” to each
other on the color spectrum, our systems need ways to calculate
how close or far apart items are in terms of their features.
Consider our earlier example of Figure 2.8. If we specify the
“distance” between two shapes to be the difference in the number of
sides they have, we can possibly get a grouping that is based on
shape. Depending on the situation, different types of distances can
be crafted carefully to arrive at the intended solution.
This leads to our first major challenge: there’s no clear “right answer”
to validate against. Unlike in supervised learning, where we could
check if our email was correctly identified as spam, here we’re
discovering patterns that might be equally valid in different ways. It’s
like asking whether books should be organized by genre or author—
the answer depends on what you’re trying to achieve. This is known
as the clustering problem, and it’s one of the most challenging
aspects of unsupervised learning.
Then, there’s the question of outliers—items that don’t fit neatly into
any group. In customer segmentation, there might be customers with
unique buying patterns that don’t fit any major group. Should we
create special categories for these outliers, force them into existing
groups, or treat them as noise in the data?
This connects to a broader challenge: validating results without
ground truth. In supervised learning, we could measure our success
by how often we got the right answer. But what’s the right answer

--- Strana 110 ---
when you’re discovering patterns? We might look at whether the
patterns are consistent, whether they’re stable over time, or whether
they lead to useful insights—but these are often subjective
measures. These challenges don’t make unsupervised learning any
less valuable—in fact, they’re part of what makes it so powerful. By
grappling with these questions, we often discover insights we
wouldn’t have found if we were limited to predefined categories. The
key is understanding these limitations and challenges so we can use
unsupervised learning effectively, choosing the right approaches for
our specific needs and being thoughtful about how we interpret the
results.
Flavors of Unsupervised Learning
Unsupervised learning is a collection of approaches, each designed
to uncover different kinds of hidden patterns in data. Some look for
groups, others for relationships, and still others for things that just
don’t fit in.
The most common type is clustering, where we group similar items
together. This is what we’re doing when we divide customers into
segments or group similar products. The simplest form, called k-
means clustering, creates distinct groups where each item belongs
to exactly one cluster—simple, straightforward, and surprisingly
powerful.
Sometimes, we need something more sophisticated than simple
groups leading to what is termed as hierarchical clustering. Instead

--- Strana 111 ---
of just creating separate groups, it builds a tree-like structure of
relationships, like branches splitting into smaller branches, and then
into twigs. Think of biological classification where an animal belongs
to a species, which belongs to a genus, which belongs to a family,
and so on up the tree. When you’re dealing with complex
relationships in data, such as organizing documents by topics and
subtopics, this hierarchical approach really shines.
Anomaly detection takes a different approach entirely. Rather than
looking for similarities, it hunts for things that stand out. First, it
learns what “normal” looks like. Then, it flags anything that doesn’t fit
this pattern. This might sound simple, but it’s incredibly powerful in
practice. It’s how credit card companies spot fraudulent transactions,
manufacturers identify defective products, and security systems
detect network intrusions.
Association rule learning digs deeper, uncovering hidden
relationships between different elements in data. When an online
store suggests “customers who bought X also bought Y,” that’s
association rule learning at work. It’s understanding how different
things connect and relate to each other in meaningful ways. These
connections can reveal surprising patterns that even human experts
might miss.
Then there’s dimensionality reduction—a fancy term for something
we do naturally. When you describe a complex object like a car, you
might focus on just a few key features: color, size, and style. You’re
reducing many dimensions of information into a simpler description.

--- Strana 112 ---
Principal Component Analysis (PCA) does something similar, finding
the most important “directions” in data while ignoring the less
important ones. This makes complex data easier to work with while
keeping the patterns that matter most.
[+]  Dimensionality Reduction as a Means to a Goal
We’ll be using dimensionality reduction to make sense of some
very complex models in later chapters. Keep this basic principle in
mind: we can’t always understand high dimensional data easily, so
we reduce the number of factors we must keep in mind to grasp a
complex concept.
Perhaps most fascinating is learning intermediate representations,
which has become crucial in modern deep learning. Imagine trying to
understand a foreign language by first translating it into something
simpler than your native language—a set of universal concepts that
bridge the gap. That’s what systems such as autoencoders do with
data, learning to transform it into forms that make complex patterns
easier to recognize. This approach has revolutionized how we
handle tasks such as image recognition and natural language
processing (NLP). We’ll return to these concepts in Chapter 9
onward in a lot of detail.
In practice, these approaches often work together like parts of an
engine. A system might use dimensionality reduction to simplify the
data and then apply clustering to find groups while simultaneously
checking for anomalies. Each type of unsupervised learning brings

--- Strana 113 ---
its own strengths to the ensemble. This is the true strength of
unsupervised learning—using it in a much larger model setting. This
is also how we’ll be using this type of learning. So, the plan is to
spend some chapters of this book focusing on supervised learning
and then return to unsupervised learning as part of a much larger
supervised learning model. Of course, there is another type of
learning that sits somewhere in the middle of supervised and
unsupervised models—semi-supervised learning more commonly
known as reinforcement learning.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 114 ---
2.3    The Magic Sauce: Reinforcement
Learning
Let’s explore the third major type of machine learning through a
thought-provoking example about learning to drive. Consider a new
driver taking their first long journey. They start driving, and everything
goes smoothly for two hours—maintaining proper speed, staying in
their lane, and keeping safe distances. Then, fatigue sets in. They
begin to doze off, and when they suddenly come to, they
immediately hit the brakes hard. Despite this reaction, they still end
up hitting the car in front of them. If we were to collect data about
accidents, we’d notice something curious: in many cases, the last
action before a collision is hitting the brakes. If we were to analyze
this data too simplistically, we might conclude that braking causes
accidents! Of course, this is clearly wrong—the brakes were a
desperate attempt to prevent the accident, not its cause. The real
problem started much earlier, with the decision to continue driving
while tired.
This example illustrates one of the most challenging problems in
learning: How do we correctly attribute outcomes to the actions that
truly caused them? The accident wasn’t caused by the final brake
action but by a series of decisions made much earlier. This is what
we call the credit assignment problem—figuring out which actions in

--- Strana 115 ---
a long sequence were actually responsible for the final outcome,
whether good or bad.
This is the core challenge of reinforcement learning. Unlike
supervised learning, where we immediately know if an answer is
right or wrong, or unsupervised learning, where we find patterns,
reinforcement learning deals with situations where the
consequences of our actions might not become apparent until much
later. It’s like playing a turn-based game—the move you make on the
first turn might seem fine at the time but could lead to your defeat 20
moves later. How do we learn which early moves were actually
responsible for the eventual loss?
This type of learning is fundamentally different from what we’ve seen
before. In reinforcement learning, our machine must learn through
trial and error, dealing with delayed feedback about its actions. The
challenge isn’t just learning what to do but understanding which
actions in a long sequence were truly important for the final outcome.
2.3.1    The Building Blocks of Reinforcement Learning
Let’s break down reinforcement learning into its fundamental pieces.
While we’ll explore this topic in much more detail later in the book,
understanding these basic elements will help us see how this type of
learning differs from what we’ve discussed so far. At its heart,
reinforcement learning involves two main players: an agent and its
environment. The agent is the learner—like our driver in the previous
example, or a robot learning to walk. The environment is everything

--- Strana 116 ---
the agent interacts with—the car and the road, or the robot’s physical
surroundings. This interaction is at the core of reinforcement
learning.
The agent exists in what we call a state, that is, its current situation.
For our driver, the state might include their position on the road, their
speed, and how alert they are. The agent can take various actions—
such as pressing the gas pedal, turning the steering wheel, or
applying the brakes. Each action might change the state, leading to
a new situation.
After each action, the environment provides feedback through
rewards or penalties. This is how the agent learns what’s good and
what’s bad. A reward might be positive (successfully navigating a
turn), negative (hitting another car), or neutral. Sometimes, these
rewards are immediate, such as the instant feedback of bumping into
a wall. Other times, they’re delayed, such as realizing much later that
an early game move led to victory.
To visualize this in a simplistic environment, take a look at the mini
world shown in Figure 2.9. This is a simple world where an agent
(shown as a cone with a ball on top) can move between different
blocks or states, each marked with coordinates, for example, (0,0).
The agent can move up, down, left, or right to neighboring blocks.
There’s something valuable to reach—a gem-like reward in the top-
right corner at (0,4). However, there are also dangerous areas to
avoid, marked with crosses in the bottom-right at (2,3) and (2,4).
Some blocks are inaccessible, shown by diagonal lines. The agent’s

--- Strana 117 ---
challenge is to find a path from its starting position at (1,0) to the
gem while avoiding the dangerous areas. The agent needs a
strategy for doing this.
Figure 2.9     State Changes, Rewards, and Actions in Reinforcement Learning
This brings us to one of the most important concepts in
reinforcement learning: the policy. A policy is essentially the agent’s
strategy—what action it should take in each situation. Initially, the
agent might make random choices, but over time, it learns which
actions tend to lead to good outcomes in different states. It’s like
developing good habits where experience teaches you what works
best in different situations.
Let’s see how this plays out in a real example. Consider a robot
learning to walk:
The agent is the robot’s control system.
The environment is the physical world with its surfaces and
gravity.

--- Strana 118 ---
States include the position of each joint and the robot’s balance.
Actions are different motor movements.
Rewards might be positive for successfully reaching a target
object across the room and negative for failing to reach it.
The policy is the learned rules for which movements work best in
different positions.
What makes this challenging is how the robot must deal with delayed
rewards. A slight imbalance might not cause problems immediately
but could lead to a fall several steps later. The robot needs to learn
which actions truly contributed to success or failure—just like our
driver example where the real cause of the accident wasn’t the final
brake action but the earlier decision to drive while tired. We’ll return
to reinforcement learning in much more detail in Chapter 10 after
we’ve built a solid foundation with supervised learning and gained
hands-on experience with Keras. For now, the key is understanding
that this type of learning is about an agent learning through trial and
error, dealing with delayed consequences, and gradually developing
better strategies for achieving its goals.
This might all sound complex, and, in many ways, it is. But it’s also
one of the most natural forms of learning. After all, most of us learn
many things in life this way: trying something, seeing what happens
(maybe not right away), and gradually figuring out what works best.
The challenge is teaching computers to learn in the same way. If we
can do that, computers will be able to solve a huge variety of
problems.

--- Strana 119 ---
2.3.2    Key Applications for Reinforcement Learning
Reinforcement learning can and has been applied in a huge variety
of problems. Let’s see some of them to show how the concepts of
agents, actions, and rewards play out in different scenarios, from
games to real-world systems.
Game playing has provided some of the most dramatic
demonstrations of reinforcement learning’s potential. In games such
as chess or Go, the agent (the AI player) can take actions by moving
pieces on the board. The reward is simple but powerful: winning the
game. This seemingly straightforward setup led to remarkable
breakthroughs, with AI systems learning strategies that surprised
even world champions. What’s surprising is that these systems
learned not by studying human games but by playing millions of
games against themselves, gradually discovering what works
through trial and error. The 2016 victory of AlphaGo over world
champion Lee Sedol marked a turning point in AI, showing that
machines could master even the most complex strategic games.
More importantly, it demonstrated that AI could develop approaches
that differed from centuries of human wisdom, finding novel
strategies that experts had never considered.
In robotics, the applications become more physical and immediate.
Consider a robot in a warehouse trying to pick up and sort packages.
Its actions are physical movements—reaching, gripping, lifting, and
placing. The reward might be successfully placing the right package
in the correct location. Unlike in board games, robots must deal with

--- Strana 120 ---
the complexities of the physical world, where no two situations are
exactly alike, and mistakes can have real consequences.
Resource management shows how reinforcement learning can
tackle complex optimization problems in the real world. Consider a
data center cooling system. The agent controls various cooling units
and airflow systems, making constant adjustments to temperature
settings and fan speeds across different zones. The reward could be
reducing energy consumption while keeping all servers within safe
temperature ranges. This balance between immediate needs and
longer-term goals makes these applications particularly challenging.
Traffic light control systems face similar challenges but on an even
larger scale. They must learn patterns in traffic flow, predict changes,
and coordinate multiple intersections—all while dealing with
unpredictable human behavior.
These applications show how the same basic principles can apply to
vastly different scenarios. Whether it’s moving chess pieces,
controlling robot arms or managing resources, the core idea
remains: learning what works through trial and error and gradually
improving based on the results. It’s not all that simple though. There
are many challenges we need to beat in order to make reinforcement
learning work.

--- Strana 121 ---
2.3.3    Challenges in Implementing Reinforcement
Learning
Think of a child learning to play a new game. Should they keep using
a strategy that seems to work (exploitation) or try something new
that might work better (exploration)? This exploration versus
exploitation dilemma is at the heart of reinforcement learning. Stick
with what works, and you might miss better solutions. Try new things
too often, and you might never develop reliable strategies. It’s a
delicate balance that every reinforcement learning system must
manage.
Remember our driving example? The delayed feedback problem
makes everything harder. Actions might have consequences that
only become apparent much later. This connects directly to the credit
assignment problem When something goes wrong (or right), which of
our previous actions were actually responsible?
Some reinforcement learning problems are harder than others, often
because of these timing and credit issues. Teaching an AI to play tic-
tac-toe (where moves have immediate, clear consequences) is far
easier than teaching it to play Go (where the impact of early moves
might only become clear at the end of the game). In the real world,
these challenges become even more pronounced. A robot learning to
walk faces not just delayed feedback but also an almost infinite
number of possible situations. The complexity increases
exponentially when the environment is unpredictable or when actions
can have multiple interacting consequences. Imagine teaching a

--- Strana 122 ---
self-driving car to navigate city traffic—every decision must account
for dozens of moving objects, each with their own unpredictable
behaviors.
What’s remarkable is how closely these challenges mirror human
learning. We all face the same dilemmas: when to stick with what we
know versus when to try something new, how to learn from delayed
feedback, and how to figure out which of our actions really led to
success or failure. Understanding these parallels helps us develop
better reinforcement learning systems while also giving us insights
into human learning itself. These insights become particularly
valuable as we work to create AI systems that can learn and adapt in
ways that feel more natural and intuitive to the humans who interact
with them. For decades, these challenges kept reinforcement
learning largely confined to academic research. The theory was
elegant and well-understood, but practical applications remained
frustratingly out of reach. Then something unexpected happened.
We discovered that neural networks—which were already
revolutionizing other areas of machine learning—could be the
missing piece of the puzzle. This combination proved surprisingly
powerful and almost deceptively simple in solving many long-
standing challenges. It was like finding the right key for a lock we’d
been struggling with for years.
As you’ll see in Chapter 10, this marriage of reinforcement learning
and neural networks opened entirely new possibilities, finally
bringing many theoretical ideas into practical reality. So, let’s discuss
this final part of our puzzle briefly in the next section.

--- Strana 123 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 124 ---
2.4    Basics of Neural Networks
Neural networks are the powerhouses driving modern machine
learning, and they appear in almost every cutting-edge AI system
we’ve discussed. Actually, they’re so important that we’ll spend most
of this book exploring them in detail starting from the next chapter.
But for now, let’s just get our feet wet with the core concept.
Remember our earlier example of recognizing handwritten digits?
We mentioned that the system learned 128 different “things” about
these digits. That might have seemed like a random number at the
time, but there’s something really interesting going on there. Each of
these things was learned by a neuron—a simple processing unit in
our neural network. The term neuron was originally inspired by
neurons in the human brain, but while biological neurons receive
signals and decide whether to fire based on those inputs, our
artificial version is more like a simplified mathematical model. We
started with inspiration from biology, but we’ve ended up somewhere
quite different. Instead of trying to replicate the incredibly complex
machinery of the brain, we’ve developed these artificial neurons to
follow mathematical principles that turn out to work remarkably well
for learning patterns.

--- Strana 125 ---
[+]  Artificial Neural Networks
You’ll notice that we use the term neural networks rather than
artificial neural networks because the modern machine learning
community dropped the “artificial” qualifier a while ago. In the
machine learning community, “neural network” refers specifically to
computational models, not biological ones. Using artificial neural
network or its abbreviation ANN is considered outdated
terminology in professional machine learning contexts.
Let’s go back to our digit recognition example to see how this works
in practice. Those 128 neurons were working together, each learning
to recognize different aspects of the digits. One neuron might have
learned to spot curves, another to detect straight lines, and others to
recognize different angles or intersections. It’s like having 128 tiny
experts, each focused on one specific feature. But the real magic
happens when we combine all of these pieces of information. These
128 individual observations work together to make the final decision
about which digit was shown in the image.
That’s the real power of neural networks—they can take many
simple pieces of learned information and combine them into
surprisingly complex and accurate decisions. And this is just the
beginning of what they can do. In this section, we’ll explore how they
work in more detail.

--- Strana 126 ---
2.4.1    Core Components of Neural Networks
Let’s break down a neural network into its basic building blocks.
Think of it like understanding how a car works—you don’t need to
know every technical detail, but understanding the main components
helps you grasp how everything works together. We’ve already met
our first component: the neuron. Each neuron is a tiny decision-
maker. Just as a person might decide whether to bring an umbrella
by looking at the clouds, wind, and weather forecast, a neuron
makes simple decisions based on the information it receives. In our
digit recognition example, one neuron might look at a small part of
the image and decide how likely it is to contain a curved line.
But neurons don’t work alone—they’re connected to each other in
interesting ways. Imagine a group of art experts trying to identify a
painting. One expert might focus on the color palette, another on the
brushstrokes, and a third on the composition. They share their
observations with each other before making a final decision.
Similarly, neurons are connected to each other, passing information
along these connections. When one neuron makes a decision, it
shares that information with other neurons that it’s connected to.
These neurons are organized into layers, like departments in a
company. The input layer is like the reception desk—it receives the
raw information. In our digit recognition system, this layer takes in
the image of the handwritten digit. Next, come the hidden layers—
think of them as different departments processing the information.
Recall our 128 neurons. They formed a hidden layer, each learning
to recognize different patterns in the digits. Finally, we have the

--- Strana 127 ---
output layer, like the executive team making the final decision. In our
case, this layer decides which digit (0–9) it thinks it’s looking at.
Let’s see how information flows through this whole system. Here’s
the sequence when we show it a handwritten digit:
1. The input layer receives the image, breaking it down into
individual pixel values.
2. These values flow through connections to our 128 neurons in
the hidden layer.
3. Each of these neurons looks for its specific pattern and makes a
decision.
4. These 128 decisions flow through more connections to the
output layer.
5. The output layer combines all of this information to make the
final digit prediction.
This flow of information, from input through hidden layers to output,
is what allows neural networks to transform raw data (e.g., pixel
values) into meaningful decisions (e.g., digit predictions). It’s similar
to how a large organization processes information—from initial data
collection through various departments’ analyses to final decision-

--- Strana 128 ---
making. See Figure 2.10 for how information flows from one layer to
another in a neural network.
Figure 2.10     Layers in Neural Networks
What makes this system powerful is how each component plays its
part while working together with others. Individual neurons make
simple decisions, connections ensure information flows where it’s
needed, and layers organize this process into manageable steps.
When we train the network, we’re really teaching all these
components to work together effectively, like training a team to
operate smoothly.
2.4.2    The Unintuitive Process of Learning
How does a neural network learn? The process is really fascinating
and, in some ways, mirrors how we might learn a new skill. When a
neural network first starts out, it’s like a blank slate with random
guesses. Consider those 128 neurons we talked about, each one

--- Strana 129 ---
initially making arbitrary decisions about what patterns to look for in
our handwritten digits. They’re like novice art critics who haven’t yet
learned what to look for.
This is where the magic of supervised learning comes in. Remember
how we talked about learning from examples where we know the
correct answer? That’s exactly what happens here.
We show the network thousands of handwritten digits, each one
labeled with the correct number it represents. At first, the network
makes lots of mistakes. A messy 6 might be mistaken for an 8, or a
slightly tilted 1 might be seen as a 7. But here’s the clever part: every
time the network makes a mistake, it adjusts itself slightly. Those 128
neurons gradually refine what they’re looking for. One neuron might
realize it should pay more attention to curves at the top of the digit.
Another might learn to focus more on straight lines at the bottom.
The connections between neurons also adjust learning which
patterns are more important for identifying each digit. Every mistake
is an opportunity to learn.
A parallel to this might be a human learning to identify birds. At first,
you might just make random guesses. But after seeing many
examples of different birds, along with their correct names, you start
noticing important details. Gradually, your observations of the shape
of the beak, the color patterns, and the way they fly become more
refined and reliable. Neural networks learn in a similar way, but they
can process thousands of examples much faster than we can.
Speed is their superpower. The key is that learning happens

--- Strana 130 ---
incrementally. The network doesn’t suddenly jump from random
guesses to perfect predictions. Instead, it gets a little bit better with
each example it sees. Early on, the improvements might be dramatic
—like finally realizing that all 1s tend to be tall and thin. Later
improvements might be more subtle.
This is why having many good examples is so crucial. Just as we
saw in supervised learning, the quality and quantity of training
examples largely determine how well the system will learn. The more
handwritten digits the network sees, and the more diverse these
examples are, the better it becomes at handling new, unseen digits
in the future. It’s a simple principle with powerful results.
2.4.3    Clearing Up Some Misconceptions
Before we dive deeper, let’s clear up some common misconceptions
about machine learning that might trip us up later. These are ideas
that have somehow taken root in the field but don’t tell the whole
story:
First, there’s a persistent belief that neural networks are
exclusively tools for supervised learning. You’ll hear this repeated
in many introductory courses and even some textbooks. But it
couldn’t be further from the truth. Neural networks are more like a
Swiss Army knife—incredibly versatile tools that can be applied to
all types of machine learning. As we progress through this book,
you’ll see neural networks performing amazing feats in

--- Strana 131 ---
supervised, unsupervised, and even reinforcement learning
scenarios.
Another misconception is that unsupervised learning is just about
grouping similar things together. While clustering is certainly a
powerful application, it barely scratches the surface of what
unsupervised learning can do. Neural networks have opened up
entirely new possibilities in this space. They can learn to generate
new images, understand the structure of language without any
labels, and even discover patterns we never knew existed in our
data.
These concepts might sound abstract right now, and that’s okay.
Machine learning is one of those fields where things really click when
you start working with the code. That’s why we’re going to take a
hands-on approach. Instead of drowning in theory, we’ll set up a
coding environment early on so you can start experimenting with
Keras even before you fully understand how everything works under
the hood. Don’t worry if some concepts feel fuzzy at first—they’ll
become clearer as you build and experiment with real models.
Think of it like learning to cook. You might start by following recipes
before you understand why certain ingredients work together or what
chemical reactions are happening in your food. But as you keep
cooking, these deeper insights naturally emerge from your hands-on
experience. We’ll follow a similar path, building your practical skills
and theoretical understanding in parallel.

--- Strana 132 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 133 ---
2.5    Setting Up Your Environment
Let’s get you started with some hands-on machine learning! Now,
you might be thinking about installing Keras on your computer, but
setting up a local machine learning environment can be quite a
process. You need to install the right version of Python, manage
package dependencies, ensure your graphics drivers are
compatible, and configure various environmental settings. Even
when you get everything running, your computer might struggle with
more complex models unless you have specialized hardware. But
here’s some good news: we can skip all that initial setup and jump
straight into the exciting part. Google Colaboratory (Colab) is a
fantastic and free cloud-based environment that’s all ready to go with
everything we need for machine learning.
In fact, we can have you writing your first machine learning code in
the next five minutes. Colab gives you access to powerful computing
resources in the cloud, so you don’t have to worry about whether
your laptop is up to the task. Don’t worry—later in the book, we’ll
walk through setting up everything on your local machine. But for
now, let’s focus on learning and experimenting with the code itself
rather than getting bogged down in setup details.
To use Colab, you’ll need to sign up for a free Google account (or
use an existing one if you already have it.) Then, head over to

--- Strana 134 ---
https://drive.google.com/drive/home, and click on the New button on
the left side of the screen (see Figure 2.11).
Figure 2.11     Opening Google Drive
In the dropdown (as shown in Figure 2.12), click the More option and
then Connect more apps. A detailed view of what apps you can
install appears.
Figure 2.12     Connect More Apps to Google Drive

--- Strana 135 ---
On the top of the newly open popup, you’ll see a search option as a
magnifying glass. Click on that and then search for “Colab” in the
search box, as shown in Figure 2.13.
Figure 2.13     Searching for Google Colaboratory

--- Strana 136 ---
Click on the Colaboratory icon. You can see the app logo in
Figure 2.14.
Figure 2.14     The Google Colaboratory Add-In
Click on Install (see Figure 2.15) and you’ll be asked to grant
Colaboratory permissions. This is an official app from Google itself

--- Strana 137 ---
so it’s safe to use, but be sure to read through the permissions to
know exactly what you’re allowing.
Figure 2.15     Installing Add-Ins to Google Drive
Once all the permission granting is done and Colab is installed, you
can head back over to https://drive.google.com/drive/home, click on
New • More again, and now you’ll now see Google Colaboratory
(see Figure 2.16). Clicking on this will bring up a new Colab file.
You’re now ready to start writing your code. Installation and granting

--- Strana 138 ---
permissions to Colab was a one-time operation. The next time you
want to use Colab, you can just create a new file using this last step.
Figure 2.16     Google Colaboratory as an Additional File Type

--- Strana 139 ---
When you open the file, the default theme will be applied to Colab. If
you don’t like theme, you can change it using the settings icon on the
top right, as shown in Figure 2.17.
Figure 2.17     The Settings Icon in a Google Colab File
Take a look at Figure 2.18. In the Site tab, you can see the first
option at the top that allows you to select the theme as dark or light.
We’ll use the light theme throughout this book whenever we use

--- Strana 140 ---
screenshots of Colab, but you’re free to use whichever theme you
prefer.
Figure 2.18     Selecting the Theme for Your Notebook
Finally, to actually use the code, you’ll see a little gray box in the
middle portion of the screen. Figure 2.19 shows two cells at the
moment. To write code in a cell, just type or paste your code. Then,
to run it, either click the Play button on the left of the cell or hold
down the Shift  key and press Enter . The code in the cell will be
executed, and the output will be shown below the cell. For instance,
the second cell called for a print statement. So, the value of the
variable x was output below the cell. This is a great way of working

--- Strana 141 ---
with code and experimenting with parts of it without having to run the
whole code again.
Figure 2.19     Inserting and Executing Code in Cells
You can now take the code given in Listing 2.3 to Listing 2.9. Each
listing’s code can be pasted in a single cell and that cell run
independently of others. By running this code, you’ve successfully
helped the machine learn from the MNIST handwritten digits using a
very powerful algorithm. In the next chapter, we’ll start to peel off the
layers of this black box and figure out exactly how the machine is
finding the patterns in our 128 neurons.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 142 ---
2.6    Summary
We’ve taken our first steps into the fascinating world of machine
learning. We’ve discovered how machines can learn in different ways
—sometimes with clear guidance like a student with a teacher,
sometimes by finding patterns on their own like a curious explorer,
and sometimes through trial and error like a determined problem
solver. We’ve met neural networks, which are remarkable systems
inspired by but not bound by the human brain that have
revolutionized what machines can achieve. From recognizing
handwritten digits to making complex decisions, we’ve seen
glimpses of their potential. And best of all, we’ve set up our own
laboratory in the cloud with Google Colab, ready to start
experimenting with these ideas ourselves. What we’ve covered so
far provides a foundation for understanding how these systems work.
In the next chapter, we’ll look more closely at the mechanics of
learning, exploring the mathematics and techniques that make all of
this possible. There’s much more to discover as we continue our
journey into machine learning.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 143 ---
3    Fundamentals of Gradient
Descent
Gradient descent is the cornerstone of modern machine
learning, powering everything from simple predictions to
complex AI systems. In this chapter, we’ll build this
fundamental algorithm from the ground up. This deep,
foundational knowledge will serve as a guide to help you
recognize how even the most advanced models are built on
top of these guiding principles.
Think of gradient descent as the secret language of machine
learning—a language that, once mastered, opens up a world of
possibilities. Amazingly, this seemingly simple mathematical concept
powers everything from image recognition to language translation,
yet it’s often treated as just another black box tool that “somehow
makes things work.” Understanding gradient descent at a deep,
intuitive level transforms how you approach machine learning
problems and provides insights that help you design, troubleshoot,
and optimize models more effectively. There’s more to this than just
gaining the knowledge of gradient descent—it’s also about feeling it
in your bones, understanding its rhythm, and flowing with its

--- Strana 144 ---
nuances. From my personal time in the field, I can tell you the
moment everything clicked—when gradient descent stopped being a
mysterious algorithm and became a natural extension of my
problem-solving toolkit—was when modern machine learning truly
opened up to me.
Gradient descent is more than just a mathematical procedure; it’s the
heartbeat of modern deep learning itself. When you truly grasp it,
something profound happens: the latest advances in deep learning
start to feel less like impenetrable academic papers and more like
logical extensions of principles you already understand. Complex
frameworks such as Keras become transparent, and their design
choices make perfect sense because you understand the
fundamental harmony they have with the underlying core concepts.
This deep understanding transforms how you interact with machine
learning tools. You’ll find yourself not just using them but truly
wielding them with precision. When new tools emerge (and they will),
you won’t be intimidated because you’ll see them for what they are:
different interfaces to the same underlying principles you’ve
mastered.
The best part is that you’ll develop an almost supernatural ability to
“hear” what the math and code are telling you. Debugging won’t be
about blindly trying solutions but about listening to what the gradients
are saying, understanding where the learning process is struggling,
and knowing intuitively how to guide it back on track.

--- Strana 145 ---
But here’s the thing—this level of understanding doesn’t come from
rushing through the concepts or memorizing formulas. It comes from
building up your intuition step-by-step, layer by layer, like a master
craftsperson honing their skills. That’s why this chapter might be the
most crucial one in this entire book. Each concept we’ll cover, no
matter how elementary it might seem at first glance, is a crucial
piece of the puzzle that will eventually form your complete
understanding of machine learning.
So, let’s slow down, take a deep breath, and prepare to wade into
the waters of gradient descent. We’ll start with a simple example that
might seem basic at first but—trust me—this gentle introduction is
deliberately designed to build the rock-solid foundation you’ll need
for everything that follows.
Let’s begin our journey into the heart of machine learning, one
careful step at a time. For that, we’re going to start with a basic
definition of machine learning.
3.1    Understanding Gradient Descent
What exactly do we mean when we say machine learning? One of
the most enduring and precise definitions comes from Tom Mitchell
in his 1997 book Machine Learning:
A computer program is said to learn from experience E with
respect to some class of tasks T and performance measure P, if

--- Strana 146 ---
its performance at tasks in T, as measured by P, improves with
experience E.
Let’s unpack this definition using everyday language. Consider
teaching a child to identify dogs. The task (T) is recognizing dogs,
the experience (E) consists of showing the child many pictures of
both dogs and other animals, and the performance measure (P) is
how accurately they can identify dogs in new pictures they haven’t
seen before. Machine learning works similarly—we provide the
computer with examples (experience), a clear task, and a way to
measure how well it’s doing. Let’s begin explaining this process from
scratch. We’ll start with a simple example and gradually build on the
premise by adding nuance to the discussion. Eventually, we’ll get to
the state-of-the-art model that almost all modern deep learning
models are built on.
3.1.1    The Basic Setup
To make this even more concrete, let’s consider a practical example:
predicting house prices. Imagine you’re a real estate agent who has
been estimating house prices for years. You’ve developed an
intuition about how a house’s features relate to its market value.
Machine learning can systematize this process, learning patterns
from historical housing data to make accurate price predictions.
In our example, we’ll start simple. Let’s say we have data about
houses (shown in Table 3.1) in a particular neighborhood, where
each house is described by just one feature: its area in square

--- Strana 147 ---
meters. Our dataset might contain hundreds of pairs of information:
the area of each house and its corresponding sale price. This
becomes our computer program’s experience (E). The task (T) is
clear: predict the price of a new house given its area. Our
performance measure (P) will be how close our predictions are to the
actual sale prices.
Let’s look at a dataset that shows what data we’ve collected. Each
row of this dataset is called a single data point.
Area of the House (Square
Meters)
Price of the House
(Millions)
145
808
202
993
305
727
365
582
450
1,612
Table 3.1     Example Dataset for Housing Prices
The first column contains our input data, or features—the area of
each house in square meters. This is the information we’ll always
have access to, even for new houses that come on the market.
When a real estate agent encounters a new house, they can easily
measure its area. Think of this as our given information or what we
use to make our prediction. Each entry in this column tells a small

--- Strana 148 ---
part of the house’s story: one house might be 145 square meters,
another 450 square meters, and so on.
The second column contains our output data—the actual selling
price of each house. These are the historical prices we know from
past sales, and they’re incredibly valuable because they help us
learn the relationship between a house’s area and its price. For
houses in our dataset, we might see that a 305-square-meter house
sold for 727 million while a 450-square-meter house sold for 1,612
million. This is what mathematicians and computer scientists call our
ground truth—the real answers that we’ll use to train our model. The
collection of all rows, including input data and output data, forms our
complete dataset. Because we’re making predictions for outputs that
are continuous in nature, you’ll recall that this is called a regression
problem.
[»]  Isn’t This Just a Toy Example?
While this scenario might seem like a toy example, rest assured
that we’ll build it up to get to an understanding of state-of-the-art
methods and tools. We want to take one baby step at a time to
form a solid foundation.
What makes this setup fascinating is that we’re trying to build a
system that can learn from these known pairs of areas and prices to
predict prices for houses we haven’t seen before. Consider what
happens when a new 250-square-meter house comes on the market
—we have its area (our input), but we don’t yet know its fair market

--- Strana 149 ---
price (the output we want to predict). Our machine learning model
will use the patterns it learned from our existing data to make an
educated guess about this new house’s price. Of course, in reality,
many other factors influence a house’s price—the number of
bedrooms, the age of the house, the neighborhood, nearby schools,
and so on. We’re starting with just the area to keep things simple,
but later we’ll see how to incorporate these additional features to
make our predictions more accurate. This is just one of the
assumptions we’re making at the beginning of our understanding.
This predictive challenge mirrors how human experts work. An
experienced real estate agent has seen many houses and their
selling prices over the years. When they encounter a new house,
they draw upon this experience to estimate its value. Our machine
learning model will do something similar, but it will do so by finding
mathematical patterns in the data rather than relying on intuition.
Let’s discuss how we can achieve this using a systematic approach.
3.1.2    Formalizing the Process: Training Phase
Understanding this relationship between inputs and outputs is crucial
because it forms the foundation of our prediction task. In machine
learning terms, we’re trying to discover a reliable way to convert
house areas into price predictions—essentially, we want to capture
the underlying pattern that connects these two pieces of information.
The beauty of this approach is that once we understand this pattern,

--- Strana 150 ---
we can make educated guesses about the price of any house, as
long as we know its area.
Let’s walk through how we turn machine learning from an abstract
concept into a systematic process. Looking at Figure 3.1, you’ll see a
road map that breaks down our learning methodology into clear,
manageable steps. Think of it as a recipe we’ll follow to teach our
computer to make predictions.
First, we do something that might seem counterintuitive—we split our
dataset into two parts, like dealing a deck of cards into two piles.
One pile becomes our training set, and the other becomes our test
set. While Table 3.1 shows just a handful of examples for clarity,
modern real-world applications deal with massive amounts of data—
from thousands of examples in smaller projects to billions or even
trillions in large-scale applications. But don’t let these numbers
intimidate you—the core concept stays exactly the same whether
we’re working with 10 houses or 10 million.
[»]  Details of Training and Testing Split
For now, consider that the split is 50-50 between training and
testing. There are more details involved with how we split the

--- Strana 151 ---
complete dataset and what issues might come up. We’ll get to
them as we proceed.
Figure 3.1     Typical Machine Learning Pipeline
Next, we focus entirely on our training set, using both the input
features and output values to run them through our process. While
we’ll dive into the details of this process later, what’s important to
understand is that the process is like a factory that produces
something special—a prediction system called the hypothesis
function (h).
This hypothesis function h is like a well-trained expert who has
learned to make educated guesses. Give it some input data about a
house, and it will try to predict the house’s price. It’s similar to how
an experienced real estate agent can estimate a house’s value just
by knowing its features.

--- Strana 152 ---
Once h is ready, something interesting happens—we can actually
set aside both the training data and the process that created h. It’s
like how once you’ve learned to ride a bicycle, you don’t need the
training wheels anymore.
Now comes the moment of truth. We take our test set—remember
that pile of data we set aside earlier? We only show h the input
features from this set, keeping the actual prices hidden. It’s like
giving our trained expert a pop quiz, showing house areas but not
revealing the real prices. The function h makes its predictions for
each house in the test set, and we compare these predictions with
the actual prices we kept hidden. If h gets most of its predictions
right, we can say it’s doing a “good enough” job. Of course, what
counts as most and what qualifies as good enough are subjective
terms that we’ll explore in detail later.
3.1.3    From Training to Deployment: Making It Work in
the Real World
Once we’re satisfied with how well our hypothesis function h
performs—that is, once it’s learned to make reliable predictions
during our training phase—we can do something quite remarkable.
We can discard the entire learning machinery, like taking down the
scaffolding once a building is complete. The training set, test set,
and all the complex processes that went into creating h? We don’t
need them anymore. All we keep is h itself, our perfectly tuned
prediction machine. Think back to learning to ride a bicycle. During

--- Strana 153 ---
the learning phase, you need training wheels, a patient teacher
holding the back of the bike, and perhaps an empty parking lot to
practice in. But once you’ve mastered cycling, you can ride smoothly
on any road without any of those learning aids. Similarly, when we
deploy h into the real world, it stands alone, ready to make
predictions about new houses that come on the market. To
emphasize how alone h is in the wild, we show what’s happening in
Figure 3.2.
Figure 3.2     Making Predictions in the Wild
The contrast between the training and deployment phases is striking
—it’s like comparing the extensive preparation for a space mission to
the elegant simplicity of the actual flight. When you hear about
machine learning requiring massive computational resources, they’re
typically referring to the training phase, where all the heavy lifting
happens. The deployment phase, by comparison, is computationally
lightweight—often requiring thousands or even millions of times less
computing power.
[+]  Lightweight Hypothesis Functions
There’s a lot of work being done to make hypothesis functions as
lightweight as possible. This is why we’re now able to have very

--- Strana 154 ---
powerful models on small-factor devices, even as small as
smartwatches!
But there’s still a crucial piece of our puzzle missing. We haven’t yet
explored the mysterious “process” that produces h. This process is
where the real artistry of machine learning lies. It’s like knowing the
beginning and end of a story, but now we need to discover the
adventure in between. We’ll do that next.
3.1.4    The Process of Learning
Let’s begin by understanding the process from a human perspective.
While computers don’t actually “think” the way we do, understanding
the human logic behind these steps will make the machine’s
approach much clearer.
Think of what happens when you try to solve this problem without a
computer. You have a table of data (Table 3.1) showing house areas
and their corresponding prices. The most natural way to visualize
this relationship is to plot these points on a graph, with house areas
on the x-axis and prices on the y-axis. Each house in our dataset

--- Strana 155 ---
becomes a point on this plot, creating a scatterplot that you can see
in Figure 3.3.
Figure 3.3     Scatterplot of the Dataset
Now comes the interesting part. We need to find a way to predict
house prices based on their areas. The simplest approach is to
assume that bigger houses cost more in a straightforward, linear way
—like each additional square meter adds a fixed amount to the price.
Mathematically, we’re saying that the relationship follows a straight-
line equation: y = ax + b, where a tells us how much each square
meter adds to the price, and b represents a base price for having a
house at all—called the bias term. As before, this is a simplifying
assumption that we’ll lift later.
To make our notation more consistent with what we’ll see in machine
learning literature, we’ll make a small change. Instead of a and b,
we’ll use 
 and 
, respectively. In addition, because our predictions

--- Strana 156 ---
won’t be perfect, we’ll call our predicted price  to distinguish it from
the actual price y. Our function thus becomes
This is our model. Think of it as a recipe with two special ingredients,
 and 
, which are our model parameters. These parameters are
like the knobs we can turn to adjust how our prediction line fits the
data.
[+]  Learn How to Pronounce Latin and Greek Letters
It’s very important to learn to pronounce Greek and Latin letters
used in mathematics. When you can naturally say terms such as 
(alpha),  (beta), or  (gamma) instead of pausing to decode
them, you can focus better on grasping the underlying
mathematical concepts. This helps you parse the latest research
much faster.
Here’s where things might seem a bit counterintuitive—we’re going
to start by just making up some random values for these parameters.
Yes, you read that right! We’ll pick random values for the
parameters, say 
 and 
. It’s like throwing darts
blindfolded, hoping to get somewhere close to the target. While this
might sound unscientific, it’s actually how many machine learning
algorithms begin their journey toward finding the perfect values.
When we plot this line on our scatterplot, something interesting
happens, as shown in Figure 3.4. Our prediction line cuts through

--- Strana 157 ---
our data points, but it’s not a perfect fit—far from it, actually. You can
see this clearly in the visualization, where we’ve drawn vertical bars
connecting each actual house price to our predicted price on the line.
These bars are like error meters, showing us just how far off our
predictions are from reality—the longer the bar, the bigger our
mistake.
Figure 3.4     Error Bars on the Random Parameter Model
These vertical bars are probably the most important aspect of this
figure. Some of our predictions are too high (when the line is above
the actual price), and others are too low (when the line is below). It’s
like trying to guess someone’s age—sometimes we overshoot,
sometimes we undershoot, and occasionally we get lucky and guess
just right.
So, the difference between our predictions for each data point and
the ground truth is given by
Let’s see how well (or poorly) our prediction line is doing by
measuring the size of those error bars we saw earlier. If we add up

--- Strana 158 ---
all of these errors, we get a total of 2,192. But we need to be careful
about negative errors. If a house price prediction is 50,000 too high
or 50,000 too low, that’s equally wrong. That’s why we consider the
absolute size of each error, regardless of whether we predicted too
high or too low. Consider the case in which half our predictions were
50,000 too high and half were 50,000 too low. Adding these up would
suggest we’re doing perfectly, when we’re actually off by quite a bit!
We could solve this by taking the absolute value of each error, but
there’s a more elegant solution that mathematicians and machine
learning practitioners love: squaring the differences. When we
square a negative number, it becomes positive, solving our sign
problem beautifully. There are other benefits of using the square
function that we’ll revisit in the next section. So, for all data points
(let’s assume they are m in number) the error now becomes
There’s one more refinement we need. Assume we’re comparing two
models: one tested on 100 houses and another on 1,000 houses.
Even if the second model makes the same average-sized mistakes,
its total error would be much larger simply because it’s dealing with
more houses. The solution is to divide by the number of houses to

--- Strana 159 ---
get the average error per house and give this error function a name
— J:
This elegant little formula goes by many names in the machine
learning world—loss function, error function, energy function, cost
function—but they all mean the same thing: it’s our mathematical
measuring stick for how badly our model is misbehaving. The lower
this number, the better our predictions. There are other loss
functions as well, but this is by far the most common one for
problems like these. It’s aptly called the mean squared error (MSE)
function parameterized by the  values.
Let’s take a moment to clarify the difference between these two
crucial functions in our machine learning system: the hypothesis
function and the loss function. The hypothesis function h is like a
price-predicting crystal ball. You feed it information about a house—
in our case, its area—and it gazes into its mathematical depths to
predict a price. The loss function J, on the other hand, is more like a
report card or a quality control system. It looks at all of our
predictions together and grades how well we’re doing. While the
hypothesis function works with house features to make predictions,
the loss function works with our model parameters (those  values)
to tell us how good our predictions are. Making predictions based on
model parameters is called the forward pass.

--- Strana 160 ---
Think of it this way: When we use the loss function, the actual house
data (both features and prices) stays fixed—like answers in an
answer key. What we change are the  values, which are those
mysterious numbers that control our prediction line. Each time we try
different  values, it’s like submitting a different version of our
answers, and the loss function tells us how many we got right. The
goal is to find the parameter values that give us the best possible
grade, that is, the smallest value for the loss function.
Let’s look at what happens when we experiment with our model
parameters. When we change 
 from 1.75 to 2.0, something
interesting happens—our sum of absolute errors drops from 2,192 to
1,729, as shown in Figure 3.5. It’s like adjusting the dials on a radio
and getting a clearer signal.
Figure 3.5     Model with Better Parameter Values
This observation gives us an important insight. Pause for a moment
and consider what it means: If changing one parameter can reduce
our error this much, there must be a “sweet spot”—some

--- Strana 161 ---
combination of parameter values—that gives us the smallest
possible error.
[+]  Interactive Tool for Line Fitting
We’ve made a tool for you to practice this line fitting and get the
errors interactively. Try the demo on the book resources page at
https://recluze.net/keras-book. Look under Chapter 3 for the tool
03-03-mse-fit-demo. As before, all the resources are available on
the book’s official web page at http://rheinwerk-
computing.com/6142 as well.
Now, we need a navigation system for our parameter space—a
systematic way to navigate from our random starting point to these
ideal values. Instead of blindly trying different numbers and hoping
for the best, we need a clever strategy that can guide us toward
better and better parameters.
In our next section, we’ll uncover exactly how we can turn this insight
into a practical algorithm.
3.1.5    Finding the Best Parameters: Minimizing the Loss
Before we dive deeper, let’s recall that we’re on a journey of
understanding—we’re thinking through this process the way a
human might, not the way a computer actually does it. Keep this
distinction in mind as we explore further, and we’ll get to what the
machine does at the end of this section.

--- Strana 162 ---
Let’s simplify our exploration by focusing on just one parameter for
now: 
 (we’ll bring 
 back into the picture later). Consider
conducting a series of experiments. Each experiment involves
picking a different value for 
, and then measuring how well (or
poorly) our model performs with that value.
If we were to plot these experiments on a graph, with 
 values on
the horizontal axis and the corresponding loss values on the vertical
axis, we’d start to see a pattern emerge. For instance, when we
picked the parameter value of 2, we got the error value of 10; when
we picked the value of 9, we got the error value of 7. We keep doing
this and getting some loss values, as shown in Figure 3.6. After a
few experiments, we happened across the value of 6, which gave us
the minimum value of the loss, that is, 1.75. This was a great result,
but we arrived at it by chance. Instead, we need a systematic
approach to find this point.
Figure 3.6     Landscape of the Error Function Based on Model Parameters

--- Strana 163 ---
This visualization reveals something fascinating about the
relationship between our parameter choice and the resulting error.
It’s a map that shows us the terrain of possible solutions, complete
with hills and valleys. The valleys (lower points) represent parameter
values that give us lower errors, while the hills (higher points) show
us parameter values we want to avoid.
When we look at this plot, we’re seeing the landscape of possibilities
for our model. Each point tells us a story about how a particular
parameter value performs, and together, they paint a picture that will
help guide us toward finding the best possible values for our model.
Examining our plot of parameter values versus loss, we discover
something crucial about our loss function’s shape—it forms what
mathematicians call a convex function, appearing like a bowl that
opens upward. This shape, as shown in Figure 3.7, isn’t a
coincidence. It’s precisely why we chose to use squared errors

--- Strana 164 ---
rather than absolute errors earlier. Square functions always create
this distinctive bowl-shaped curve.
Figure 3.7     Underlying Shape of the Loss Plot
The key property of a convex function is that it has exactly one
minimum point, and on both sides of this minimum, the function’s
values consistently increase. This shape exists independently of any
points we plot—it’s the underlying mathematical structure of our loss
function 
.
Because we’re working with a mathematical function, we can use
calculus to understand how it behaves. Specifically, we can look at
its derivative. Even if your calculus is a bit rusty, we only need to
understand one key concept: The derivative of a function at any
point tells us how the function’s value will change when we adjust its
input. In our context, the derivative of 
. reveals how our loss
value will change if we increase  by a small amount. Let’s look at

--- Strana 165 ---
what happens when  equals 2. At this point, shown in Figure 3.8,
the derivative is negative.
Figure 3.8     Derivative at Model Parameter Value at 2
This tells us something important: Increasing  slightly will decrease
our loss value. Therefore, if we randomly selected 
 as our
starting point, we can improve our model by increasing . We can
formalize this using the following equation:
The derivative itself if written formally as
Let’s not worry about how we’re going to calculate the derivative. It’s
not a big issue, and we usually get it for free. (We’ll see how this
automation is made possible in Chapter 5, Section 5.3.2.) The only
important point to note is that it will be a scalar value, which will be

--- Strana 166 ---
negative if we are to the left of the target minimum. Let’s continue
with our discussion by specifying the update rule precisely:
This observation gives us a systematic way to find better parameter
values. When we calculate the derivative and find it’s negative, we
know we should increase  to reduce our loss. The derivative acts as
a signpost, pointing us toward parameter values that will improve our
model’s performance. That is why we have a negative sign in front of
the derivative. Subtracting a negative value will effectively give us a
new  value that is going to be larger than the old one.
This was just one case though. It’s also possible that we initially
picked the random value of 
 (see Figure 3.9). If we calculate
the derivative of the function 
 at 
, we get a positive value.
Think about what this means for a moment. When we’re standing at
 on our error landscape, we’re like a hiker who has wandered
too far up the right side of our bowl-shaped valley. The positive

--- Strana 167 ---
derivative is like a compass telling us we’ve gone too far in the
positive direction.
Figure 3.9     Derivative at Model Parameter Value 9
A negative derivative told us to increase , and a positive derivative
works in the opposite way. It says that if we want to reduce the value
of 
, we should reduce the value of . This means we should
subtract this positive value of the derivative from the old value of  to
get the new value:
The minus sign in front of the derivative becomes crucial. We’re
subtracting a positive number, which means our new  value will be
smaller than 10. Do you notice that this is exactly the same equation
as we had for the first case? The beauty of this equation is that it
works irrespective of what our initial random estimate was. If we
follow the gradient to improve the value of , we’re sure to reduce
our loss—hence the name gradient descent. The process of

--- Strana 168 ---
calculating the derivative values—propagating the loss back to the
parameter that caused it—is called the backwards pass.
So, this simple equation naturally guides us in the right direction
regardless of whether we start too high or too low. If we’re too high
(e.g., at 
), the algorithm tells us to decrease . If we’re too low
(e.g., at 
), it tells us to increase .
This is why our choice to use squared errors was so clever—it gives
us this bowl-shaped error landscape where we can always trust the
derivative to point us in the right direction, like a reliable compass
that never fails. Whether we’re standing on the left slope or the right
slope of the bowl, the derivative will always guide us toward that
sweet spot at the bottom where our error is minimized.
To round off the discussion about our movement through the error
landscape, let’s take a look at one final scenario that’s particularly
special—what happens when the derivative becomes zero (or
something very close to it). This is precisely the point in our space
we’ve been searching for all along!

--- Strana 169 ---
Think back to our hiking analogy. When you’re walking in steep
terrain, the steepness (our derivative) tells you which way to go. But
what happens when you reach perfectly flat ground? That’s exactly
what zero derivative means—we’ve reached the valley floor of our
bowl-shaped error landscape, and this is the value of  that gives us
the minimum amount of loss, even if the loss itself might not be zero.
And here’s the great part: In a convex function (the friendly bowl
shape), this flat point is unique. It’s like having a ball in a smooth
bowl—no matter where you release it, it will always roll to the same
spot at the bottom. When we find this point where the derivative is
zero, we’ve discovered the perfect set of parameters that minimizes
our prediction errors.
Now, you might wonder if need to find the exact point where the loss
is precisely zero. In the real world, with all of its messy data and
inherent noise, that’s simply not possible. Instead, we’re happy when
our derivative gets very close to zero—it’s like being “close enough”
to the bottom of the valley that any further movement wouldn’t
meaningfully improve our predictions.
With just one equation and a random starting point, we’ve developed
a reliable way to find the optimal parameters for our model. The
elegance of this approach—that it converges to the best possible
solution regardless of where we begin—is what makes gradient
descent such a powerful tool in the machine learning toolkit.
Gradient descent is a very powerful algorithm that comprises the
core machinery behind all of modern machine learning. It’s what
guides all the latest and state-of-the-art models. If you fully

--- Strana 170 ---
understand gradient descent to its core, the other algorithms just
make sense. At its core, the algorithm is simply this: start with some
random value, and move around in the loss landscape guided by the
derivative, so that you’re always reducing the loss until you
eventually get to the minimum. At this point, you have the model
parameters that are best to make predictions about your outputs
based on your inputs.
While doing all of this, we made a few assumptions. We’ve listed
them all here so we can try to lift as many as we can:
There is a single input feature.
The relationship between the inputs and outputs is linear.
The loss is a convex function. (We didn’t really make this
assumption, but we did come up with a loss function that was
convex. We’ll see later that we can have loss functions that aren’t
convex (i.e., bowl shaped), but the same algorithm still works out
well.)
Let’s go ahead and lift the first assumption to see how it changes our
model and algorithm.

--- Strana 171 ---
3.1.6    Lifting the Assumptions of a Single Input Feature
Let’s see what happens when our model grows beyond a single
feature. Remember how we started with just the house area ( x) in
our equation? Our simple model looked like this:
But real-world data is rarely so simple. Think about buying a house—
you don’t just look at the size because you likely also care about the
number of rooms, location of the house, its age, and so on. Let’s add
just the number of rooms to our dataset for now. We’ll see that going
from one feature to two will give us the tools to add as many features
as we want. When we add this new feature to our dataset, we get
something like Table 3.2.
Area of the House
(Square Meters) – x1
Number of
Rooms (x2)
Price of the House
(Millions) – y
145
2
808
202
3
993
305
2
727
365
4
582
450
5
1,612
Table 3.2     Adding Features to the Dataset

--- Strana 172 ---
Notice that features are now called x1 and x2 instead of just x. This
will allow us to easily use this notation. In addition, our prediction
equation—the model—naturally expands to accommodate it:
Each  value still plays its own special role: 
 tells us how much
each square meter contributes to the price, while 
 reveals how
much each additional room affects the value. Meanwhile, 
continues to represent our base price.
With this expansion in our model to handle multiple features, we
need to rethink how we visualize our loss landscape. Remember our
earlier plot (see Figure 3.6), where we could track how the error
changed as we adjusted a single  value? Well, things are about to
change a little bit but not too much.
With two parameters, 
 and 
, we can no longer capture our loss
landscape in a simple 2D plot. We need to step into the third
dimension. Picture it this way: We’re no longer walking along a
curved line in search of the lowest point—we’re now exploring a
surface, like a landscape with hills and valleys.
This new visualization takes the form of what mathematicians call a
mesh plot. Think of it as a topographical map, but one where we can
see the entire surface at once. The x-axis represents possible values
for 
, the y-axis shows values for 
, and the height (z-axis) tells us
the loss value for each combination of these parameters. The z-axis
is special as it predicts the loss that we want to minimize. Keep this

--- Strana 173 ---
in mind for later when we return to a discussion of higher dimensions
in Section 3.1.7. Figure 3.10 shows what the mesh plot for a typical
square function looks like.
Figure 3.10     Mesh Plot with Two Model Parameters
For every point on this surface—that is, for every possible
combination of 
 and 
—there’s a specific loss value. There’s a
unique elevation for every location on a terrain map. Some
combinations of parameters will lead to high loss values (peaks in
our landscape), while others will give us lower loss values (valleys).
Somewhere on this surface lies our optimal solution—the lowest
point in the terrain where our model makes its best predictions.
We’ve reached a critical point in understanding the loss landscape.
When we had just one parameter, the process was straightforward—
we could follow a single derivative to find the minimum. But now, with

--- Strana 174 ---
multiple parameters shaping our terrain, we need a more
sophisticated navigation tool.
Enter partial derivatives—a powerful concept that lets us tackle this
complexity without completely reinventing our approach. A partial
derivative answers a very specific question: If we change just one
parameter while keeping all others fixed, how does our loss value
respond?
Consider our house price prediction: We want to understand how
changing just the area of the house affects the price, without
touching any other knobs. That’s exactly what a partial derivative
tells us—how our loss changes when we adjust one parameter (e.g.,
) while leaving the others (e.g., 
) unchanged. In mathematical
terms, when we calculate a partial derivative, we’re taking a slice
through our 3D landscape. Imagine standing at any point on our
surface and looking straight along the 
 direction, and you’d see a
plane that shows how the loss changes as you adjust 
, assuming
 stays constant.
At the intersection of this plane and the loss landscape is a curve.
This curve is like our old familiar 2D plot, just viewed from a
particular angle in our new 3D world. Watch the little white line at the
intersection of the plane and the mesh in Figure 3.11. Compare this

--- Strana 175 ---
white line with the curve in Figure 3.7. These look exactly the same.
This gives us a good starting point.
Figure 3.11     A Slice Through the 3D Landscape Demonstrating a Partial Derivative
Let’s see how we can use these partial derivatives to navigate our
more complex loss landscape. When we fix 
 and only adjust 
,
we’re essentially following a specific path down our surface—like
tracking the slope of a single dimension while standing still in the
other. The partial derivative with respect to 
 tells us exactly which
way and how steeply this path descends.
This insight gives us a powerful strategy for updating both
parameters simultaneously. For 
, we calculate the partial derivative
, which measures how the loss changes with small

--- Strana 176 ---
adjustments to 
. We can then update 
 using our familiar update
rule:
Similarly, for 
, we calculate its partial derivative 
 and update
it:
These update equations work in perfect harmony. Each partial
derivative guides its respective parameter in the direction that
reduces the loss, and we can apply both updates in a single step.
This means our overall update becomes a coordinated movement
across our loss surface, with each parameter adjusting in its optimal
direction.
Here’s what makes this approach particularly elegant: When we
make these independent adjustments to 
 and 
 based on their
respective partial derivatives, something remarkable happens. If
each change individually reduces the loss, the combined effect is
guaranteed to reduce our overall loss as well. While the
mathematical proof of this property is beyond our current scope, its
implications are profound—we can confidently update multiple
parameters simultaneously, knowing we’re moving toward better
predictions.

--- Strana 177 ---
It’s perfectly fine if the math seems too complicated. All we need to
internalize is that each model parameter is updated independently of
others. So, even if there are a thousand model parameters, there’s
nothing else to know or understand. The same formula that we used
for a single model parameter works for any number of parameters!
Let’s try to write the formula in full now.
To do this, we’re going to need the derivative of the loss function.
This is something that might have been worrying you: the actual
calculation of these derivatives. Here’s the encouraging part—you
don’t need to become a calculus expert to use gradient descent
effectively. The derivatives we need are readily available and well-
understood. In fact, for the most common loss functions used in
machine learning, mathematicians have already worked out the
derivatives for us. You can check their work but it’s really not
needed. Modern machine learning code, tools, and frameworks
handle these calculations automatically, letting us focus on the
bigger picture of how to use them effectively.
Take our MSE loss function, for instance. While its name might
sound intimidating, its partial derivatives have a surprisingly elegant
form. For 
, the partial derivative is
In this equation, the 
 is our model. This is the same as . We
can further expand this to get rid of this h, but it’s sufficient to keep in

--- Strana 178 ---
mind that it abstracts away the multiplication of model parameters
with features. Now, the overall update rule becomes
This is called the gradient descent step, which is essentially updating
model parameters based on the sum of differences between our
predictions and the ground truth weighted by the corresponding input
feature. You might notice that we’re missing a term in this formula.
Don’t worry. We’ll return to a discussion of this in Section 3.3. This
formula encapsulates a powerful idea: It measures how much our
predictions deviate from reality, weighted by the relevant feature. The
beauty of this formula lies in its direct connection to our goal—
minimizing prediction errors.
There’s one crucial detail we need to address about updating our
parameters: Timing matters. When we adjust multiple parameters,
we need to update them all simultaneously, not one after another.
This means keeping track of all of our old parameter values until
we’ve calculated all the new ones.
The process works like this:
1. Store all current parameter values.
2. Calculate all new values using these stored old values.
3. Update all parameters at once with their new values.

--- Strana 179 ---
This synchronization is very important. Assume we’re updating 
,
but we’ve already changed 
 to its new value. We’d be using the
wrong version of 
 in our calculations, meaning the guarantees
provided by the partial derivative rules no longer hold. We might be
going in a direction that doesn’t essentially reduce the loss—
something we don’t want. So, just make sure that each parameter
update should be based on the same snapshot of all other
parameters from the previous iteration. Let’s include a little snippet of
code to drive the point home.
In Listing 3.1, you can see how we would store temporary copies of
all parameters. Only after we’ve calculated all the new values do we
update the actual parameters. This careful orchestration ensures our
gradient descent proceeds correctly toward the minimum of our loss
function. At the end of this chapter, we’ll use this concept along with
all the missing parts to completely code gradient descent from
scratch. For now, just make sure you understand this point and avoid
the most common mistake made by people just getting started with
gradient descent.
def gradient_descent_step(X, y):
        # Store current parameters
        old_parameters = self.parameters.copy()
        
        # Compute all gradients using old parameters
        gradients = self.compute_gradients(X, y)
        

--- Strana 180 ---
        # Update all parameters simultaneously
        self.parameters = old_parameters - gradients  
Listing 3.1     Simultaneously Updating All Model Parameters
There might be one thing in the back of your mind though: How do
we take this from two dimensions (features) to even higher
dimensions? Let’s look at that briefly.
3.1.7    Higher Dimensions in Gradient Descent
The remarkable answer to the question, “how do we work with a
larger number of dimensions”, is that moving to higher dimensions
requires almost no changes to our approach! Just as we moved from
one parameter to two by adding another term to our equation and
another partial derivative to our calculations, we can keep adding
terms for each new feature. Our prediction equation simply becomes
the following for n features:
We can elegantly simplify our equations by introducing a clever
convention: setting x0 = 1 for all data points. This allows us to
express our entire prediction equation as a simple vector-matrix
multiplication. Let’s collect all of our input features in a matrix X.
Each column is the collection of features of a single data point, and

--- Strana 181 ---
the number of columns in X is equal to the number of data points we
have:
So, in this case, we have n features and m total data points. All of
our  values can be combined in a single row vector  as well:
Notice the capital  to denote our vector. Our original long equation
simply becomes
Sometimes, the  is written as a column vector instead of a row
vector as well. In that case, we simply transpose the vector, and the
math works out fine.
This vectorized formulation offers two significant advantages. First, it
provides mathematical elegance and power. By expressing our
computations in terms of matrices and vectors, we can leverage the
rich theoretical framework of linear algebra. This becomes
particularly valuable as we progress to more sophisticated models
where clean mathematical notation helps us understand and
manipulate complex relationships more easily.
The second advantage is purely computational. Modern computing
hardware, from CPUs to GPUs, is specifically designed to perform

--- Strana 182 ---
matrix operations with remarkable efficiency. When we express our
computations in vectorized form, we can take advantage of highly
optimized linear algebra libraries that tap directly into this hardware
capability. Instead of writing loops to process each data point
individually, vectorized operations can handle thousands or millions
of computations simultaneously. This parallelization can speed up
our computations by several orders of magnitude—what might take
hours with manual loops can be completed in seconds with
vectorized operations.
A challenging issue arises with the whole visualization that we did in,
for example, Figure 3.10, if we try to do the same with higher
dimensions: How do we visualize our loss landscape when we have
more than two dimensions? Modern machine learning models often
have millions or billions of parameters—far beyond what we can
draw on paper or render on a screen.
Geoffrey Hinton, one of the pioneers of machine learning, offered a
delightfully practical solution to this visualization problem. He
suggested looking at a 3D loss landscape, for example, one that

--- Strana 183 ---
looks like Figure 3.12, and simply saying “14” very loudly. Suddenly,
you’re visualizing a 14-dimensional space!
Figure 3.12     Visualizing Higher Dimensions
While humorous, this insight carries a deep truth: The exact
dimensionality of the parameter space isn’t what matters most.
What’s truly important is understanding that regardless of how many
parameters we have—whether 14 or 14 million—we’re still working
with a single scalar value of interest: the loss. Think of it this way: the
“ground” of our landscape might span an enormous number of
dimensions, but we’re only concerned with the “height”—our loss
value—for our visualization. This height tells us how well our model
is performing, and the gradient still points us in the direction of
steepest descent.
The mathematics we’ve developed doesn’t care about the number of
dimensions. Our approach of calculating partial derivatives and

--- Strana 184 ---
performing simultaneous updates works exactly the same way
whether we have two parameters or two billion. The only difference
is in the size of our matrices, not in the fundamental principles of
how we optimize them.
Coming back to the vectorization of code though, this point also ties
up directly with our next section that deals with optimizing the whole
process to take advantage of modern computational devices.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 185 ---
3.2    Types of Gradient Descent: Batch,
Stochastic, Mini-Batch
We actually have a major issue in the formula for update that we
came up with for gradient descent:
Recall that the summation is over all data points m. When we try to
actually carry out this computation, we encounter a significant
practical challenge with this gradient descent step formula. Let’s
examine the computational cost to understand why this is a serious
problem.
Our update rule requires us to sum over all data points m in our
dataset. In modern machine learning applications, m can easily
reach a billion data points. For each of these billion points, we need
to do the following:
1. Compute the prediction (involving all features).
2. Multiply this error by each feature value.
With a million features (actually below average in modern machine
learning), each prediction step involves a million multiplications.
Multiply this by our billion data points, and we’re looking at 1015
operations—just for a single update step. Because we’re carrying out

--- Strana 186 ---
this step operation using the whole batch of data, we’ll call this batch
gradient descent. Let’s explain this in a little more detail, and in the
process, also introduce an important mathematical/visualization tool
—the contour plot.
3.2.1    Contour Plots for Visualization of Gradient
Descent
While our 3D mesh plot in Figure 3.10 effectively showed how loss
varies with different parameter combinations, it has several practical
drawbacks. The surface itself becomes an obstacle to visualization—
peaks can hide valleys behind them, making it impossible to see
certain combinations of parameter values. If we want to track a
specific point’s trajectory during gradient descent, it might disappear
behind a hill or beneath a valley. Even worse, when we want to
compare multiple parameter combinations, some points might be
completely hidden from view regardless of how we rotate the plot.
This problem becomes particularly acute in regions of high
curvature, precisely where we most need to understand the
landscape’s behavior. We can solve this visualization challenge by
transforming our 3D plot into a more readable 2D representation.
The key insight is that we can flatten our 3D landscape while
preserving all of its critical information. Instead of showing height
directly, we can project our surface onto the ground plane and use
contour lines to represent points of equal loss value. This is called a
contour plot—an example of which can be seen in Figure 3.13. Each

--- Strana 187 ---
contour line connects all points that share the same loss value
similar to elevation lines on a topographical map. (Ignore the lines
with arrows for now. We’ll come back to these in a minute.)
Figure 3.13     Contour Plot Mapping the 3D Landscape to the 2D Plane
This flattened representation offers several advantages:
1. We can clearly see all parameter combinations without any
points being hidden behind the surface.
2. The spacing between contour lines tells us about the steepness
of our loss landscape.
3. We can easily trace paths between different parameter
combinations and understand how the loss changes along these
paths.
Each contour line effectively marks a level set—all points where our
loss function equals a specific value. By labeling these lines with

--- Strana 188 ---
their corresponding loss values, we maintain all the essential
information from our 3D plot while making it much easier to analyze
specific regions of our parameter space.
[+]  Working with Contour Plots
It’s a great idea to find some contour plots and get used to what
they look like. In addition, try creating them in the tool of your
choice. Matplotlib has great examples of contour plots in its
documentation. You can see some of them here: http://s-
prs.co/v614201.
The contour plot shows us the steps of a batch gradient descent
process in action (the lines with arrows). Starting from randomly
initialized values of 
 and 
, we can trace how
the algorithm navigates toward the minimum. At each step, the
partial derivatives calculated from our formula guide us in the optimal
direction. Over three iterations, we see the algorithm progressing
directly toward the minimum point of the loss landscape.
This visualization illustrates both the strength and limitation of batch
gradient descent. Its strength lies in taking the optimal path toward
the minimum, as it uses information from all data points to determine
each step. However, this thoroughness comes at a computational
cost—each step requires processing the entire dataset, making the
algorithm very slow when dealing with many features or data points.

--- Strana 189 ---
To put batch gradient descent in perspective: even if we had a
supercomputer capable of performing a trillion operations per
second, each gradient descent step would still take more than 15
minutes. And remember, we typically need thousands or even
millions of steps to reach convergence.
This computational burden makes our current approach impractical
for real-world applications, even with the most powerful computing
resources available. We need a more efficient strategy.
3.2.2    Improving the Efficiency of Batch Gradient
Descent
Let’s discuss a surprisingly effective solution to our computational
challenge. Instead of calculating the loss over all data points at each
step, we can choose a single, random data point and compute the
loss for just that point. Although this approach might seem
counterintuitive (after all, how can we make good decisions with
such limited information?), it really well in practice.
In this modified approach, each update step works like this:
1. Randomly select one data point from our dataset.
2. Calculate the loss using only this point.
3. Update our parameters based on this single-point calculation.
4. For the next step, pick another point (without replacement) and
repeat.

--- Strana 190 ---
This dramatically reduces our computational burden. Instead of
performing billions of calculations for each step (summing over all
data points), we now only need to calculate the loss for a single
point. Our million multiplications no longer get repeated for a billion
data points. That’s a billion times speedup!
What about the issue of limited information used in each step? While
each individual step might not point us in exactly the right direction
(because we’re only looking at one data point’s gradient), we
compensate for this by taking many more steps. Because we pick
each data point at random and arrive at the next location based on
chance, this is called stochastic gradient descent (SGD). This
meandering behavior can be seen on the contour plot in Figure 3.14.
Figure 3.14     Gradient Descent Steps in Stochastic Gradient Descent
The randomness in our point selection helps ensure that we
eventually consider all of our training data. This method essentially

--- Strana 191 ---
trades the precision of batch gradient descent for dramatically
improved computational efficiency.
3.2.3    A Paradox in the Use of Stochastic Gradient
Descent
Our discussion of SGD reveals an interesting paradox in practice.
While it seems computationally efficient to process just one data
point at a time, this approach actually underutilizes modern
computing hardware. GPUs and specialized machine learning
processors are designed for parallel computation—they excel at
processing multiple data points simultaneously. When we process
single data points sequentially, we’re essentially leaving most of our
computational power idle. Moreover, to process our entire dataset
once (called an epoch), we need to perform m separate update
steps—one for each data point. This sequential processing can end
up being slower than we anticipated.
The solution lies in finding a middle ground, called mini-batch
gradient descent. Here’s how it works: We first shuffle our entire
dataset randomly, and then divide it into small, equally-sized chunks
called mini-batches. Each mini-batch typically contains data points
that modern GPUs can process efficiently in parallel.
For example, if we have 10,000 training examples and choose a
batch size of 100, we’ll create 100 mini-batches of 100 examples
each. We then process these mini-batches sequentially: compute the
loss for all points in the current mini-batch, calculate the average

--- Strana 192 ---
gradient, and update our parameters. Once we’ve used a mini-batch,
we don’t reuse it until we’ve processed all other mini-batches to
ensure that each data point contributes equally to training.
When we’ve processed all mini-batches once (completing the full
epoch), we typically reshuffle the entire dataset and create new mini-
batches for the next epoch. This reshuffling helps prevent our model
from learning any accidental patterns in the order of our data.
This approach offers several advantages:
Uses hardware parallelization capabilities
Reduces the computational burden compared to full batch
processing
Provides more stable updates than SGD
Allows for efficient memory usage and data throughput
The size of these mini-batches, known as the batch size, becomes a
crucial hyperparameter in modern machine learning. A
hyperparameter is a tunable variable that isn’t a model parameter
but affects the model’s parameters, nonetheless. We’ll see many
more hyperparameters as we continue with our discussion in this
book. The batch size hyperparameter helps us balance
computational efficiency with the quality of our parameter updates.
When you start working with machine learning frameworks and
libraries, you’ll notice something potentially confusing: many tools
label their gradient descent implementations as “SGD” (aka
stochastic gradient descent), even though they’re actually

--- Strana 193 ---
implementing mini-batch gradient descent. The key tell-tale sign is
the presence of a batch_size parameter. This naming convention,
while technically imprecise, has become standard in the field.
In any case, choosing the optimal batch size is more art than
science, heavily dependent on the number of features, the number of
data points, and specific hardware configuration, among many
others. The decision involves balancing several factors.
If your batch size is too small (e.g., 8 or 16), you might experience
the following:
Updates becoming noisy and unstable
Training path meandering more than necessary
Underusing GPU parallel processing capabilities
Significantly increased overall training time
If your batch size is too large (e.g., 1,024 or 2,048), you might
experience the following:
GPU memory becoming a bottleneck
More time spent on memory transfers
Significant overhead in data movement
May slow down training despite seeming more efficient
The sweet spot depends on your specific GPU:
Available memory
Number of CUDA cores

--- Strana 194 ---
Memory bandwidth
Cache size
This is why you’ll often see recommendations to experiment with
different batch sizes for your specific setup. Start with common
values such as 32, 64, or 128, and then adjust based on both
training performance and hardware utilization metrics.
One issue still remains though: Both mini-batch and SGD face a
particular challenge near the minimum point of our loss landscape.
Unlike batch gradient descent, which uses the entire dataset to
compute precise updates, these methods will tend to oscillate
around the minimum rather than settling precisely on it. This
happens because each update is based on a subset of data, leading
to slightly different gradient directions at each step.
We can address this meandering behavior by somehow slowing
down as we approach the minimum. We can do this using
optimization techniques that not only solve this particular issue but
also lead to another critical problem we usually face when applying
gradient descent. Let’s discuss that issue in the following section.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 195 ---
3.3    Learning Rate and Optimization
Let’s revisit the gradient descent step one more time. Irrespective of
whether you’re using batch, stochastic, or mini-batch gradient
descent, we can face an issue with gradients not playing nice with
our algorithm.
Consider a case where our minimum loss function can be achieved
with a model parameter value of 6. Figure 3.15 shows such a loss
plot. We don’t know this minimum point yet, and we start with a
parameter value randomly initialized at 5. When we calculate the
derivative of the loss function at this point, we get a value of -2.5.
The negative sign tells us we need to increase our parameter value,
and the magnitude tells us how big of a step to take. Plugging this
derivative into our update step,
, we get a new model
parameter value of 7.5. That seems to be a problem. The initial
random guess was only 1 unit away from the minimum, but this new
model parameter value is now 1.5 units away. Instead of getting
closer to our target, we’ve actually moved further away.
The situation becomes even more problematic on our next step.
Because we’re further away from our minimum (at 7.5 instead of 5),
the loss function’s convex nature dictates that we’ll get an even
higher derivative value here—albeit with the opposite sign. When we

--- Strana 196 ---
calculate the derivative at this point, we get a value of 3.5. The
positive sign now tells us we need to decrease our parameter value.
Plugging this new derivative into the update formula,
, we get a new model
parameter of 4. This result reveals the full extent of our problem:
We’re now even further away from the minimum than what we
started with in the first place. Our parameter value has oscillated
from 5 to 7.5 to 4, with each step taking us further from our target of
6. Figure 3.15 shows what happens if we continue performing the
update steps—we’re led into a divergence away from the minimum.
This oscillation is more than a minor inconvenience; it’s a
fundamental challenge in gradient descent optimization. With each
step, our parameter updates are getting larger instead of smaller,
and we’re moving further from our goal instead of closer to it. The
very mechanism that should be guiding us toward the minimum is
actually pushing us away from it.
What makes this particularly challenging is that the problem
compounds itself. The further we move from the minimum, the larger
our gradients become, leading to even larger steps in the wrong
direction. Without some way to control these step sizes, our
algorithm might never converge to the optimal solution.
Let’s try to fix this problem by adding a small multiplier to the
derivative term in our formula. Let’s say we set the multiplier to 0.1.
This way, our initial step now becomes
, which is

--- Strana 197 ---
actually closer to our target parameter value, unlike our previous
attempt that overshot to 7.5. That seems to be working out well. Let’s
update our step formula to accommodate this change:
Figure 3.15     Divergence of Model Parameter Values in Gradient Descent
Before we leave this off and call it done, let’s examine another
scenario with a different dataset. We’ll start with the same initial
conditions—our parameter is randomly initialized to 3, and our target
value (though unknown to us) is still 6. However, this time, our
derivatives behave quite differently.
When we calculate our first derivative, we get a much smaller value:
-0.2. This small derivative isn’t due to any problems with our
algorithm—it’s simply a result of having a different dataset with

--- Strana 198 ---
different input and output values that produce naturally smaller
gradients. Using our update formula of
we get a new value of 3.02. While this is a move in the right direction
toward our target of 6, we’ve only taken a tiny step. Because we’ve
barely moved from our starting position, our next derivative won’t
change much either. We’re stuck in a situation where each step
makes only minor incremental progress, as shown in Figure 3.16.
This slow progress becomes particularly problematic when we
consider the computational cost. Remember that each step requires
millions of multiplications, consuming both computational resources
and time. When our algorithm needs hundreds or thousands of these
small steps to reach the minimum, the cost adds up significantly. We
can fix this problem by getting rid of the multiplier and getting the
new value as 3.2, which is much better.
Figure 3.16     Slow Convergence During Gradient Descent Steps

--- Strana 199 ---
We’ve discovered ourselves in a challenging situation: a fixed
multiplier simply can’t handle the diversity of real-world data. When
the multiplier is present, it helps with some datasets but hinders
others. Remove it, and we face the same problem in reverse. We
need a more flexible solution.
This is where we must introduce another hyperparameter in the mix.
Instead of fixing our multiplier or removing it entirely, we make it
adjustable—something we can tune from outside our training
process to accommodate different datasets. So, our final formula for
gradient descent update step becomes
This crucial hyperparameter is called the learning rate, denoted by 
(alpha), and is arguably the most important hyperparameter in all of
machine learning. Tuning the learning rate becomes a critical skill.
When you start training and notice your model’s parameter values or
losses are diverging, it’s a clear signal that your learning rate is too
high—you’ll need to dial it down. Conversely, if you observe the loss
decreasing at a painfully slow rate while your derivatives remain far
from zero, your learning rate is likely too low and needs a boost.
The art of selecting the right learning rate isn’t something that can be
fully automated—it remains a skill that machine learning experts
develop through experience and practice. It requires careful
observation of your model’s behavior, and an understanding of how
different datasets might respond to different learning rates. In the

--- Strana 200 ---
next section, we’ll go ahead and put all this together to see how we
can perform a simple machine learning process using Python code.
[»]  Automating Hyperparameter Selection
There are tools available to help optimize hyperparameters. One
such method is grid search, which helps you find optimum values
of hyperparameters. We’ll come back to these when we have
more complex models.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 201 ---
3.4    Implementing Gradient Descent in Code
In this section, we’ll write code to demonstrate how gradient descent
works. This code will cover all the concepts we’ve discussed in this
chapter along with some implementation-specific tips and tricks.
Let’s first write the whole code from scratch without using Keras so
that you can link the underlying math to code. This is imperative for a
deeper understanding of the concepts. Once we’re through that, we’ll
solve the same problem using Keras and see what improvements
are made by using the library.
3.4.1    Gradient Descent from Scratch
Let’s begin by setting up our environment for implementing gradient
descent. Fire up a Google Colaboratory notebook (refer to
Chapter 2, Section 2.5, for how to do that). We’ll break the code
down so we can point out all the important aspects. We’ll be using
the numpy library to write vectorized code.
Notice the second line in Listing 3.2. You’ll often see this in machine
learning codes. This line sets the random seed that is used to
generate all random numbers in the following code. If any piece of
code starts with the same seed, the “random” numbers generated
throughout the code are still going to be random but the setting of
the seed ensures that every time you run the code, you’ll get the

--- Strana 202 ---
same random numbers. This ensures the reproducibility of your
results.
import numpy as np
np.random.seed(1337)   # Generate dummy data  
Listing 3.2     Import and Initialize numpy
When we write np.random.seed(1337), we’re not generating random
numbers—we’re creating a predetermined sequence that appears
random but follows a specific pattern. This sequence influences
everything from how we initialize our model weights to how we
shuffle our training data, making it possible to recreate exact
experimental conditions whenever needed. The number itself
(whether it’s 1337, 42, or any other integer) isn’t special, but using
the same seed guarantees that our random number generator will
produce identical sequences every time, which is crucial for
debugging, testing, and ensuring our results are reliable and
reproducible.
[»]  Get the Complete Code Listing
Access the complete code listing for this section on the book’s
web page at http://rheinwerk-computing.com/6142 and on the
resources page at https://recluze.net/keras-book in the 03-01-
SGD-scratch notebook.
The way we use random seeds changes depending on our goals:
during development and research, we typically want consistent

--- Strana 203 ---
results to compare different approaches and debug issues, so we set
specific seeds to create reproducible environments. This way, we
can share our code with others who can run it and make sure they
get the same results as we did. However, in production systems
where we want our models to be robust and adaptable, we often skip
setting seeds to embrace true randomness. This duality reflects a
broader principle in machine learning: We need controlled
environments to develop and validate our models, but we also need
to ensure that they can handle the genuine randomness of real-world
data. The power of random seeds lies in this flexibility—they give us
the ability to switch between perfectly reproducible experiments and
truly random operations.
With that out of the way, let’s proceed to generate some dummy data
using numpy’s built-in functions. The first line in Listing 3.3 creates
100 random samples, and the second line defines the ground truth
for the model parameters 
 and 
. We then go ahead and generate
the output values y based on the inputs and also add a sprinkle of
random noise to make our data more realistic. After all, in the real
world, patterns are rarely perfect. The last line shows the shape of
the inputs and outputs. This is one of the most important aspects of
real-world engineering of machine learning models. At the moment,
the shape of X and y is both (100, 1). This means 100 rows with 1
column each. It’s a good idea to get in the habit of looking at shapes
of different matrices in your code. As we venture into more
sophisticated models with multiple features and complex
architectures, keeping track of these matrix dimensions becomes

--- Strana 204 ---
increasingly important. Matrix shape mismatches are often the
hidden culprits behind many debugging sessions, so developing an
intuition for them early on is invaluable.
X = np.random.randn(100, 1)  # 100 samples, 1 feature
true_params = np.array([2.5, 3.7])  # True param values
y = true_params[0] + true_params[1] * X 
        + np.random.normal(0, 0.1, (100, 1))
print("Shape of X:", X.shape, " Shape of y:", y.shape)  
Listing 3.3     Generating Data and Considering Shapes
We then move on to complete our setup before we start with the
actual training process. The first line in Listing 3.4 adds a column to
our input matrix, converting it to the shape (100, 2). The first column
is populated with all 1s using the np.ones function, and the np.hstack
function does the heavy lifting of producing the final matrix in the
correct form. We then go ahead and initialize our model parameters
with some random values. We use randn(2, 1) because we have two
model parameters and need just one combination. Finally, we set the
hyperparameters for learning_rate and batch_size along with the
definition of the number of iterations we need for the gradient
descent step. Now, we’re ready to go ahead and perform the actual
gradient descent steps and improve our initial random guess.
X_b = np.hstack((np.ones((X.shape[0], 1)), X))   # set x0=1 
print("Shape of X_b:", X_b.shape)     # look at the shape again
# Initialize parameters
theta = np.random.randn(2, 1)
learning_rate = 0.01

--- Strana 205 ---
n_iterations = 1000
batch_size = 32  # Mini-batch size  
Listing 3.4     Adding Bias Term and Setting Up the Environment
We’ll first shuffle the data as shown in the first three lines of
Listing 3.5. This helps us do the randomization once and then
sample batches in order instead of randomly sampling them during
each step. Then, we start the loop that performs the gradient
descent step iteratively. In the step, we calculate the start and end
index of the batch so that the number of data points in our batch is
equal to the batch_size hyperparameter. The line start_idx = (i *
batch_size) % len(X) calculates where each batch should begin in
our dataset through a clever use of the modulo operator. As we
iterate through our data, we multiply the current iteration by our
batch size to determine where we theoretically should start, but
because we might exceed the length of our dataset, we use the
modulo operator to wrap back around to the beginning when
needed. For example, if we have 100 samples and a batch size of
32, our first batch would start at index 0, the second at 32, the third
at 64, and the fourth at 96. When we try to calculate the start of the
fifth batch, we’d get 128, but because that’s larger than our dataset
size of 100, the modulo operator gives us the remainder after
division (28), effectively wrapping us back to continue processing
from the 28th sample. This creates a continuous cycle through our
data, allowing us to process multiple epochs while ensuring we use
every sample in our dataset.

--- Strana 206 ---
Once we have the batch ready in X_batch and y_batch, we simply
perform what is called the forward pass, that is, carrying our matrix-
vector multiplication of the features in X_batch with the model
parameters theta. Numpy gives us a built-in syntax for performing
this very common operation—the @ symbol. Applying this operation
gives us the predicted values for features. We then calculate the loss
using the derivative formula we discussed earlier in Section 3.1.6.
It’s highly recommended that you refer to the mathematical formula
and the code side by side and convince yourself that these are the
same operations—the code just used vectorized versions to ensure
that we can calculate all gradients in a vector instead of calculating
them separately. Print out the outputs of different parts of this
equation to understand their values and shapes, as well as gain a
deeper understanding of the math and code.
After computing the gradients, we can simply apply the gradient
descent step. As you can see, the vector theta is being updated
based on the learning rate and the gradients. An important point to
note here is that numpy automatically takes care of simultaneous
updates. Using vectorized code gives us this additional benefit along
with the speed up.
Finally, after the specified iterations have been completed, we output
the computed values as well as ground truth model parameters. Run
the code and play around with different values so that you
understand it well. Afterwards, we can go ahead and see how using
Keras would make our life easy when solving the same problem
using this extremely well-written library.

--- Strana 207 ---
indices = np.random.permutation(len(X)) # Shuffle the data 
X_b = X_b[indices]
y = y[indices]
for i in range(n_iterations):
    # Get current batch indices
    start_idx = (i * batch_size) % len(X)
    end_idx = min(start_idx + batch_size, len(X))
    
    # Get batch data
    X_batch = X_b[start_idx:end_idx]
    y_batch = y[start_idx:end_idx]
    
    y_pred = X_batch @ theta # Forward pass on batch
    
    # Compute gradients using batch
    gradients = (2/len(X_batch)) * 
X_batch.T @ (y_pred - y_batch)
    
    theta -= learning_rate * gradients # actual step 
print("Final parameters:", theta.flatten())
print("True parameters:", true_params)  
Listing 3.5     Gradient Descent Step and Learning Parameter Values
3.4.2    Gradient Descent Using Keras
Once you’ve fully understood the from-scratch code, we can go
ahead and convert the code to use Keras instead. We’ll begin by
importing the required packages and then setting up our data. (As
before, you can access the complete code listing for this section on

--- Strana 208 ---
the book’s web page at http://rheinwerk-computing.com/6142 and in
the resources page at https://recluze.net/keras-book in the 03-02-
SGD-keras notebook.)
Listing 3.6 is very similar to what we had before, except we have the
Keras imports that we didn’t have earlier. In addition, compare the
data setup we did in Listing 3.4 with what we have here. When using
Keras, we don’t have to set up the bias term because Keras will take
care of it for us automatically. Next, we’ll set up the Keras “model.”
import numpy as np
from tensorflow import keras
from tensorflow.keras import layers
# Generate dummy data
np.random.seed(42)
X = np.random.randn(100, 1)  # 100 samples, 1 feature
true_params = np.array([2.5, 3.7])  # True parameters [θ₀, θ₁]
y = true_params[0] + true_params[1] * X + np.random.normal(0, 
0.1, (100, 1))
# Shuffle the data
indices = np.random.permutation(len(X))
X = X[indices]
y = y[indices]  
Listing 3.6     Preamble of Gradient Descent Code with Keras
The specification of the Keras model that will carry out the learning
for us is given in Listing 3.7. We’ll get to Keras models in detail in a
later chapter, but for now, a brief description of what a model is
should suffice. A Keras model is a structure that takes numerical

--- Strana 209 ---
inputs and produces numerical outputs through a series of
mathematical operations. At its most basic level, a model consists of
layers, where each layer performs specific mathematical
transformations on the data that passes through it. These
transformations involve matrix operations such as multiplication and
addition, along with optional nonlinear mathematical functions. This
is exactly what we need for our gradient descent. The input layer is
Shape(1, ). That means it will take input where each data point will
have just one feature. The trailing comma isn’t a typing mistake—it
turns the number into a tuple as required by Keras (we’ll cover this
further later). The Dense(1, use_bias=True) line means that we’ll
output a single value from this model (i.e., our prediction) and that
Keras should automatically take care of the bias term for us. Again,
we’ll be discussing this in much more detail when we get to the use
of Keras for much larger models. For now, this model is specified
using these two lines and then compiled.
The model.compile() function sets up two essential components for
training: the optimizer (controls how the model updates its internal
parameters) and the loss function (measures how wrong the model’s
predictions are). It’s like configuring the training rules before the
actual training begins.
# Create and compile the model
model = keras.Sequential([
    layers.Input(shape=(1,)),  # Input layer for 1 feature
    layers.Dense(1, use_bias=True)  # Linear layer with bias
])

--- Strana 210 ---
# Configure the training
model.compile(
    optimizer=keras.optimizers.SGD(learning_rate=0.01),
    loss=’mse’  # Mean squared error
)  
Listing 3.7     Setting Up and Compiling the Model
[+]  Finding More Keras Optimizers
There are many more optimizers available in Keras. All of them
have gradient descent at their core but each one adds different
optimizations. It’s good to experiment with them and see what
difference they make. You can find more about the available
optimizers here: https://keras.io/api/optimizers/.
Finally, we can start the actual training process, as shown in
Listing 3.8. This final bit goes ahead and actually performs the
training based on the model hyperparameters specified earlier. You’ll
notice that we don’t actually have a loop in here. The reason is that
Keras will automatically take care of parallelization of our code and
make any optimizations that are possible given our underlying
environment. Once the whole training is done, which might take a bit
of time, Keras will output the weights using the last two lines. The
exact semantics of the shape of the weight variables will be
discussed once we’ve looked at more complicated models. For now,
just know that you’ll get the 
 value out first and then the 
 value
instead of the other way around.

--- Strana 211 ---
With that, you’re now equipped with a thorough understanding of one
of the most important pillars of modern machine learning—gradient
descent. I highly recommended that you run the code, experiment
with it, give it a couple of days, and then re-read this chapter. It will
help solidify the concepts and deepen your understanding of this
very important concept.
# Train the model
history = model.fit(
    X, y,
    batch_size=32,
    epochs=1000,
)
# Get final parameters
weights = model.get_weights()
print("Final parameters:", [weights[0][0][0], weights[1][0]])
print("True parameters:", true_params)  
Listing 3.8     Train the Model and Output Weights
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 212 ---
3.5    Summary
This chapter explored gradient descent, which is the foundational
optimization algorithm at the heart of modern machine learning. We
began with a simple house price prediction problem to understand
how gradient descent iteratively adjusts model parameters to
minimize prediction errors. We examined the computational
challenges of processing large datasets and discovered how mini-
batch gradient descent offers a practical balance between
computational efficiency and convergence stability. The chapter also
discussed critical implementation challenges, from oscillating
parameter updates to the problem of selecting appropriate step
sizes, helping us understand the crucial role of the learning rate
hyperparameter. Through both a mathematical framework and
practical code examples, we’ve seen how gradient descent, despite
its apparent simplicity, requires careful tuning to effectively navigate
the loss landscape and find optimal model parameters.
In the next chapter, we’ll see how this technique we’ve developed for
a very specific use case can also be used to solve problems of a
completely different nature.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 213 ---
4    Classification Through
Gradient Descent
In this chapter, we’ll build increasingly sophisticated models on
top of our current understanding of gradient descent. We’ll
discover how to make yes/no decisions using logistic
regression and then expand our capabilities to handle multiple
categories simultaneously. Along the way, we’ll encounter the
essential concepts of softmax probabilities and cross-entropy
loss. Through this journey, we’ll see how the humble task of
drawing lines through data points evolves into systems
capable of making nuanced decisions across multiple
categories, setting the stage for more advanced applications in
neural networks.
In the previous chapter, we explored the foundations of gradient
descent and watched our regression models evolve from randomly
initialized parameters to finely tuned predictors. We examined how
these models learned through iterative adjustment, minimizing loss
functions to improve their predictions of continuous values such as
house prices. Now, we’re ready to apply this same powerful
optimization strategy to a different and equally important class of

--- Strana 214 ---
machine learning problems: classification. Classification represents a
distinct category of machine learning tasks focused on discrete
outcomes rather than continuous predictions. Instead of answering
quantitative questions that produce numeric values along a
spectrum, classification models determine categorical assignments
—which group does this input belong to? This fundamental shift in
objective requires us to reconsider how we structure our models,
define our outputs, and measure performance. Classification
systems power critical applications across virtually every industry:
email filtering, disease diagnosis, fraud detection, sentiment
analysis, image recognition, and countless others. The ability to
automatically categorize inputs with high accuracy enables
automation of decision processes that would otherwise require
human judgment at scale.
In this chapter, we’ll start by exploring the basics of classification,
seeing how we can repurpose our gradient descent knowledge to
build models that make decisions. We’ll begin with binary
classification—problems with just two possible outcomes—and see
how, with a simple twist, the regression techniques we’ve already
mastered can be transformed into powerful classifiers. We’ll also
introduce neural networks as the logical next step in our journey.
These layered computational structures fundamentally expand
what’s possible in classification, allowing us to model increasingly
complex decisions that simple linear models can’t capture. Neural
networks provide the perfect bridge between the basic classification
principles we’ll explore and the sophisticated deep learning

--- Strana 215 ---
architectures that drive modern AI systems. Through this
introduction, you’ll gain both practical implementation skills and the
conceptual foundation needed to understand how these powerful
models learn to make decisions across countless domains.
Then, we’ll expand our horizons to tackle more complex scenarios.
What happens when we need to choose between more than two
categories? We’ll dive into multi-class classification, where our
models must decide between several possible options—such as
identifying handwritten digits (0–9) or categorizing news articles by
topic.
Along the way, we’ll encounter a critical concept that revolutionized
classification: cross-entropy loss. Unlike the mean squared error
(MSE) we used for regression, cross-entropy is specially designed
for classification tasks. We’ll explore why this matters and how it
fundamentally changes the way our models learn. We’ll also venture
into multi-label classification, where items can belong to multiple
categories simultaneously.
Finally, we’ll put theory into practice by discussing classification
models in Keras. We’ll see how the theory we discuss in this chapter
translates to very dense lines of Keras code, as well as how each
decision we make in code must come from a thorough
understanding of the founding principles. By the end of this chapter,
you’ll have a robust understanding of classification through gradient
descent—a powerful combination that forms the foundation of many

--- Strana 216 ---
modern AI systems, from spam filters to medical diagnostics and
beyond.
4.1    Classification Basics
Previously, we examined the regression approach to machine
learning. To establish a foundation for understanding classification,
it’s helpful to summarize the key elements of the regression process.
In regression, we work with a model that assumed a linear
relationship between inputs and outputs. For example, when
predicting house prices, we used square footage as input features to
predict a continuous numeric output (the price). The learning process
follows a structured sequence. We begin by assigning weights
(model parameters) to each input feature, which determine how
strongly each feature influences the prediction. Because we don’t
know the optimal values in advance, we initialize these parameters
randomly.
With our initialized model, we perform a forward pass by calculating
predicted outputs using our current parameter values. We then
measure the difference between our predictions and the actual
values using a loss function, typically MSE. This quantifies how far
off our predictions are from reality.
Next, we apply gradient descent by calculating derivatives of the loss
function with respect to each parameter. These derivatives indicate
how we should adjust each parameter to reduce the loss. We update

--- Strana 217 ---
all parameters simultaneously using the gradient information and a
learning rate that controls step size.
We repeat this process iteratively—forward pass, loss calculation,
gradient computation, and parameter updates—with each cycle
producing incremental improvements in our parameters. This
continues until the loss stabilizes at a minimum value (though not
necessarily zero), indicating we’ve found the optimal parameter
configuration given our data and model structure.
Once trained, these optimized parameters form a model that can
generate predictions for new, previously unseen inputs. The model
has effectively captured the underlying patterns in our training data.
We can now evaluate its performance on a separate test dataset—
data the model hasn’t seen during training—to measure how well it
generalizes. This critical step reveals whether our model has truly
learned meaningful patterns or has simply memorized the training
examples. A successful model will make accurate predictions on
both training and test data, indicating that it has captured genuine
underlying relationships rather than noise or coincidental
correlations.
Let’s apply the same methodology for classification in the following
sections and see if it works for yes/no answers as well.

--- Strana 218 ---
4.1.1    Classification Problem Setup
We’ll start by examining a use case with profound real-world
importance. Consider a doctor examining tumor data, faced with a
critical question: Is this tumor malignant or benign? This decision
carries immense weight, profoundly affecting the patient’s treatment,
prognosis, and peace of mind.
When doctors classify tumors, they’re distinguishing between two
fundamentally different conditions. Benign tumors are like
unwelcome but relatively harmless houseguests. They grow slowly,
don’t invade neighboring tissues, and don’t spread to other parts of
the body. While they may cause discomfort or other symptoms
depending on their location, they typically aren’t life-threatening
unless they press against vital structures. Malignant tumors, on the
other hand, are like destructive intruders. They grow aggressively,
invade surrounding tissues, and can break off to establish new
colonies elsewhere in the body (metastasis). These tumors are what
we commonly refer to as cancer and pose serious health risks.
This distinction—benign versus malignant—represents our
classification task. We’ll build a model that examines tumor data and
predicts which category a tumor belongs to. While real medical
diagnostics involve numerous factors—genetic markers, imaging
results, patient history, and more—we’ll begin with a simplified
version that focuses on just one feature: tumor size. Size is often a
significant indicator, with larger tumors generally (though not always)
associated with higher risk of malignancy. This single-feature

--- Strana 219 ---
approach lets us visualize our classification problem in two
dimensions and build an intuitive understanding before tackling more
complex scenarios.
Our tumor classification problem is specifically a binary classification
task because we’re deciding between exactly two classes (malignant
or benign), the classes are mutually exclusive (a tumor can’t be both
malignant and benign simultaneously), and the classes are
collectively exhaustive (every tumor must be one or the other; there
is no third option). We could frame this binary classification in
several equivalent ways: malignant or benign, “Is this tumor
malignant?” with answers of yes or no, Class 1 or Class 0, and true
or false. This 1/0 representation is particularly useful in computing,
which is why binary classification often uses these numerical labels.
The binary nature of this problem makes it an excellent starting point
for understanding classification concepts before moving to more
complex multi-class problems.
Let’s take some dummy data that seems reasonable for our tumor
classification problem. We’ll plot tumor size on the x-axis with some
dummy values. On the y-axis, we’ll have our classification label: 0 for

--- Strana 220 ---
benign tumors and 1 for malignant tumors. This data might look
something like Figure 4.1.
Figure 4.1     Plotting Tumor Data for Classification
When we visualize this data, the scatter plot looks quite different
from what we saw in regression problems. The points only appear at
y-values of exactly 0 or exactly 1, creating two horizontal lines of
data points rather than the cloud of points we saw when predicting
continuous values.
Despite the different appearance, there’s a familiar pattern here.
Generally, smaller tumors tend to be benign (clustered at y = 0),
while larger tumors tend to be malignant (clustered at y = 1). This
resemblance to our regression problems is promising—perhaps we
could apply a similar approach here as well.
4.1.2    First Attempt Using Gradient Descent
What if we tried using our linear regression model from the previous
chapter? We could fit a straight line through these points, just as we

--- Strana 221 ---
did before. Our hypothesis function might look something like
where x is the tumor size, and 
 and 
 are our model parameters
that we’ll optimize using gradient descent.
Let’s try to follow this approach by picking random values for the
model parameters and applying gradient descent. When we do that,
we know that the final slope of the line will arrive at a point where the
error is minimum and we’ll get a line that goes through the points in a
way to minimize the loss. The algorithm continues this process until
the improvements become negligible—that’s when we know we’ve
reached (or at least approached) the bottom of the valley. This gives
us the result shown in Figure 4.2. The solid slanting line shows our
model.
Figure 4.2     First Attempt at Classification Using the Regression Technique
We see that if we use our model now to make predictions, we
immediately run into a problem. Looking at the graph, something
doesn’t quite fit. The solid line—our prediction model—extends far

--- Strana 222 ---
beyond the boundaries of what makes sense for our classification
task.
For an input value of 50, our model makes a prediction of about -0.2.
For our problem setup, this makes no sense at all. We’re trying to
classify tumors as either benign (0) or malignant (1), not predict
mysterious negative values or values greater than 1! Remember that
we’re trying to predict the class—0 or 1. Nothing else makes sense
in our context. A doctor wouldn’t tell a patient their tumor is “-0.2
malignant” or “1.5 malignant.” The diagnosis must be definitive:
either malignant or benign.
Because the model is a continuous line and produces a real-value
output, it’s hardly ever exactly 0 or 1, so for almost all cases, the
prediction it makes is wrong. Our predicted values might be 0.3, 0.7,
or even outside the [0,1] range entirely. We’ve run into a mess
applying the gradient descent approach directly. Our elegant
mathematical tool seems to be speaking a different language than
our classification problem requires. The linear model is answering,
“How much?” when we’re asking, “Which one?”
That doesn’t mean we have to abandon gradient descent, start from
scratch with some entirely different approach, or throw away all
we’ve learned, however. As before, gradient descent is a very
flexible algorithm. Let’s try to make some changes so that we can
keep using the extremely elegant framework that we’ve developed
previously. We need to find a way to translate our continuous

--- Strana 223 ---
predictions into the binary language of classification while still
leveraging the power of gradient descent.
If we formalize the problem, it’s clear that we’re facing two distinct
challenges with our linear approach to classification:
The first problem is that the output produced isn’t constrained
between 0 and 1. Our linear model happily ventures into negative
territory or soars beyond 1, creating predictions that simply don’t
translate to probabilities or classifications.
Even beyond that, the second problem is that the values aren’t
specifically 0 or 1. We don’t want any values between 0 and 1; we
want specifically 0 or 1. Even if we somehow constrained our
model to stay within the [0,1] range, we’d still be left with wishy-
washy predictions such as 0.37 or 0.82. But in the world of binary
classification, there’s no room for “maybe” or “somewhat”—a
patient can’t have a tumor that’s sort of malignant. We need clear,
definitive answers: yes or no, malignant or benign, 1 or 0. It’s as if
we’ve built a sophisticated analog dial when what we really need
is a simple on/off switch. Our model needs to make a decision, not
just estimate a value.
4.1.3    Second Attempt: Fixing the Issues in the First
Attempt
Let’s fix the first issue by introducing a special function that will force
the predicted values to fall between 0 and 1. This transformation is

--- Strana 224 ---
exactly what we need—a way to tame our wild linear predictions and
bring them into a reasonable range.
We have several options for this, but we’ll start with a simple one
known as the sigmoid function. The shape of the sigmoid function is
shown in Figure 4.3. Look at its elegant S-curve shape—it’s nature’s
way of transitioning smoothly between two states, like the way
twilight gently bridges day and night.
The domain of the sigmoid function is negative infinity to positive
infinity. We’ll give its formula in just a minute, but the formula isn’t
that important. What’s important is that for negative infinity values
given as input, it returns the value 0, and for positive infinity, it
returns 1. For input 0, it produces the value 0.5, and all the other
values are based on the plot you can see.
Figure 4.3     Sigmoid Function
The sigmoid function acts like a mathematical thermostat—no matter
how extreme the input temperatures get (whether scorching-hot
positive numbers or freezing-cold negative ones), it always regulates

--- Strana 225 ---
the output to stay within the comfortable range between 0 and 1.
This property makes it perfect for our classification needs.
Think of the sigmoid as a translator between two different languages:
the language of unbounded linear predictions and the language of
probabilities. It takes our raw predictions, which might range from
negative thousands to positive thousands, and converts them into
values we can interpret as the probability of belonging to the positive
class. The process of applying such a function so that the output lies
between a specific range is called squishing, and the function itself is
called a squishing function or an activation function.
To use the sigmoid function, we’ll take our prediction and pass it to
the sigmoid, and the output of this sigmoid will be our prediction
instead. This redefines our hypothesis function as
where the sigmoid function is defined as
Think of this transformation as a mathematical passport control. Our
linear function 
 can freely wander across the entire number
line, traveling to extreme values in either direction. But before it’s
allowed to become our prediction, it must pass through the sigmoid
checkpoint, which stamps it with a value between 0 and 1.
Let’s see this in action. Assume our linear model predicts a value of
-3 for a small tumor. Instead of accepting this nonsensical negative

--- Strana 226 ---
prediction, we pass it through the sigmoid:
The same occurs if our linear model predicts 5 for a large tumor:
The beauty of this approach is that extreme values get pushed
toward the boundaries (0 or 1) without ever quite reaching them,
while values near 0 get transformed to around 0.5—reflecting
genuine uncertainty about which class the example belongs to. Keep
this point in mind for later.
That solves our first issue. We’ve tamed our wild predictions,
bringing them into the civilized realm between 0 and 1. However, the
second issue still remains, and we aren’t getting 0 or 1 as output. We
want discrete values of exactly 0 or 1 instead of continuous values.
The sigmoid didn’t solve that issue; it just gave us better-behaved
continuous values.
The solution to this is quite intuitive now, though. Consider standing
at the midpoint of a seesaw—50% of the way from one end. If you’re
even slightly to the right of center, you’ll slide all the way to the right
end. If you’re slightly to the left, you’ll end up at the left end. We can
apply this same principle to our predictions: if we get a value that is
0.5 or higher as a prediction, we’ll just round it up to exactly 1, and if
we get a value less than 0.5, we round down to 0.

--- Strana 227 ---
Remember that we can’t get a value above 1 or below 0 anyway, so
we now have a very clean solution. We’ve transformed our
continuous-output regression model into a binary classifier through a
two-step process: first squeezing the predictions into [0,1] with the
sigmoid, and then snapping them to either 0 or 1 with thresholding.
This value of 0.5 is called the threshold. The specific value of 0.5
makes sense if you look at it in terms of probability. We’re saying that
if there is more than a 50/50 chance of something, we consider it as
truth, and if less than that, we consider it false. It’s like making a
decision based on a weather forecast—if there’s a 60% chance of
rain, you might take an umbrella, but if there’s only a 30% chance,
you might leave it at home.
Think about our tumor classification problem. If our model says
there’s a 75% chance a tumor is malignant, we classify it as
malignant (class 1). If it says there’s only a 23% chance, we classify
it as benign (class 0). This reflects how we make decisions in
uncertainty–we pick the outcome that seems more likely, even if
we’re not 100% certain. So, our final prediction becomes
The beauty of this approach is that it preserves valuable information
during the learning process. While our final output is binary, the
underlying sigmoid values give us a measure of confidence or
probability that guides the learning. It’s like having the benefit of

--- Strana 228 ---
nuanced thinking during deliberation but clarity and decisiveness
when action is required.
Ok, great—that’s both problems solved. Let’s try to use this threshold
approach on our first attempt and see what happens. We’ll ignore
the sigmoid function for a while for the sake of simplicity. If we try to
apply our threshold to the original example we saw earlier, we get
predictions as shown in Figure 4.4.
Figure 4.4     Making Predictions After Adding Thresholds
Let’s examine how our model performs on specific examples in the
figure, which reveals the elegant simplicity of our approach. Take a
look at data point  1 . This small tumor sits firmly in the benign
region. For this particular data point, our model made a raw
prediction of -0.2 (ignoring the sigmoid transformation for now).
When we feed this negative value through our sigmoid function, it
produces a value well below 0.5. By applying our threshold rule, we
get the final prediction of 0, which is correct! The model has correctly
identified this small tumor as benign.

--- Strana 229 ---
Similarly, for  2 , our linear function yields a value that gives us
approximately 0.48. Again, this is less than our 0.5 threshold, so we
predict 0 (benign) and again, we’re correct! Notice how close this
prediction is to the threshold despite being a relatively large benign
tumor. This makes sense—larger tumors are generally more likely to
be malignant, so even though this one is benign, the model
expresses some uncertainty.
Finally, let’s try with point  3 . This tumor is relatively large and,
indeed, malignant. Our model’s linear function produces a value that,
after sigmoid transformation, becomes approximately 0.74. This is
comfortably greater than our threshold, so our final prediction is 1
(malignant). Once more, we’ve correctly classified the tumor!
What about point  4 ? This is an interesting case because it
represents a prediction region rather than an actual data point. If we
were to encounter a tumor of this size, our model would produce a
prediction well above 0.5, leading to a malignant classification. The
further right we go on our graph, the more confident our model
becomes in its malignancy prediction—which aligns with medical
understanding that larger tumors generally pose higher risks.
Look at that—we got all the answers correct! Our model has
successfully learned to distinguish between benign and malignant
tumors based on their size. What’s particularly beautiful about this
approach is how we’ve layered transformations to turn a simple
linear model into a powerful classifier. It’s like we’ve given our
mathematical model a way to make decisions just as a doctor might

--- Strana 230 ---
—combining evidence, assessing probability, and ultimately making
a clear diagnostic call. And we’ve done all of this while preserving
the elegant gradient descent framework we developed earlier.
Before we start celebrating though, let’s just make sure by adding
another data point to our dataset. Let’s assume the doctors found a
very large tumor in an unfortunate patient. This is shown in
Figure 4.5 with the new data point  1 . Because the tumor size is so
large, it’s not surprising that the tumor is malignant. So, this new
data point doesn’t add anything to our existing knowledge. Our
model should still be able to learn well from this new dataset.
Figure 4.5     Adding an Extreme Outlier Data Point to the Dataset
As we can see, the model’s parameters have been adjusted by
gradient descent so that the slope is a lot gentler. It’s like watching a
seesaw adjust when a very heavy child sits on one end—the entire
balance shifts. The reason is that if the slope kept the same as it was
before, the error for this new data point at tumor size 800 would have
been huge. Gradient descent (remember, it’s not “smart” in the way
humans are) only wants to minimize the loss, so it changed the slope

--- Strana 231 ---
value (model parameter) to minimize the overall error. The loss is
now at its minimum for our dataset with this new, gentler slope. On
paper, everything looks mathematically optimal. If you look at the
point predicted by the model at x = 300, it’s correct.
However, point  3  (x = 375) is now predicted to have a value of 0.47,
which is below our 0.5 threshold. So, our prediction is now benign,
which is incorrect! Our model has forgotten how to classify a tumor
that it previously identified correctly.
What went wrong? Adding a new data point to our dataset should
have reinforced our learning. It’s like giving a student more examples
to study from—it should make them better, not worse. But instead, it
has made our model worse. We’re now making an incorrect
prediction for a case we previously got right.
Spend some time thinking about why this might be. We followed the
approach diligently; we minimized the loss but our model still made a
mistake that it didn’t make without this outlier point. It’s as if the
presence of this one extreme example has pulled our entire model
out of alignment, like a magnet distorting a compass needle.
This phenomenon reveals something profound about machine
learning models. Sometimes, being mathematically optimal doesn’t
translate to being practically useful. Our model is now technically
“better” at minimizing overall error across all examples, but it’s
sacrificed accuracy on an important case to accommodate an
extreme outlier.

--- Strana 232 ---
The reason that the model doesn’t work as intended is that our
definition of “better” is incorrect. It’s like training a dog to fetch sticks
but then being disappointed when it doesn’t guard your house.
We’ve been optimizing for one goal while hoping to achieve another.
Think about it: The loss we’re trying to minimize is the distance of the
prediction (without the threshold) from the actual value—we’re using
MSE. Our model is dutifully doing exactly what we asked of it:
minimizing the square of the difference between its continuous
predictions and the true labels. That extreme data point at size 800
creates an enormous square error if not accommodated, so the
model adjusted its parameters accordingly.
On the other hand, when we evaluate the model, we’re measuring
how many answers it got right after applying the threshold. We’re
counting correct classifications—a fundamentally different metric
than the squared distance between continuous values! It’s like
training an archer to hit as close to the bullseye as possible but then
scoring them only on whether they hit the target at all.
We told our model to minimize one loss, and we’re evaluating it
based on some other criteria. That’s not fair to the model, and that’s
why it can’t perform correctly. Consider being hired for a job where
your performance review measures skills completely different from
what you were told to focus on—it’s a recipe for misalignment. This
misalignment between optimization objective and evaluation metric
is a fundamental challenge in machine learning. Our model is
actually performing perfectly—it’s minimizing the MSE across all

--- Strana 233 ---
data points, including our outlier. But because classification accuracy
depends on the threshold, which isn’t part of our optimization
process, we get unexpected results. Let’s try one more time, and this
time, I promise we’ll have the right answer.
[ ! ]  Better Isn’t Always Better
Keep this lesson about misalignment in mind when doing practical
machine learning. Just because a model performs well on the
results you’re measuring, it doesn’t necessarily mean the model is
good. You should always question whether you’re making the right
measurements as well as making the measurements right.
4.1.4    Third Attempt: Fixing the Loss Function
Because our loss function is an issue, we should try to fix that first
and see how it goes. It’s like realizing you’ve been using a ruler to
measure weight—the tool simply doesn’t match the task at hand.
Remember that our issue is that MSE measures something we’re not
really interested in. MSE is excellent at capturing the numerical
distance between predictions and actual values, but in classification,
we don’t care about that distance in quite the same way. What we’re
interested in is getting the maximum number of classification
answers correct. We want our model to say “benign” when a tumor is
benign and “malignant” when it’s malignant—regardless of how
confident it is in that prediction (as long as it crosses our threshold).

--- Strana 234 ---
But we also need a function that has a clean derivative so that we
can use gradient descent. Gradient descent is like a hiker following a
path downhill—it needs a smooth slope to navigate effectively. If our
function has sharp cliffs or flat plateaus, our hiker gets stuck or
wanders aimlessly.
So, we need a function that is differentiable and gives a small value
when the answer is correct and a large value when the answer is
incorrect. Like a teacher’s grading system that barely penalizes
minor mistakes but severely punishes fundamental
misunderstandings. The student (our model) would quickly learn to
avoid those critical errors. If we sum over such a function, we’ll get
the loss or cost function that we want. It would give us a measure of
how many classification errors our model makes, weighted by how
confident it was in those wrong answers.
We can explore different options for such a function, but over time, a
consensus has been developed on the best function. It’s like how
thousands of chefs over centuries eventually agreed that certain
spice combinations just work better than others—wisdom born from
collective experience.
Unlike before where we derived the loss function ourselves, this
time, I’ll just tell you what that function is, and I’m then going to try to
convince you that this loss function does what we want. Sometimes,
in machine learning, we stand on the shoulders of giants rather than
rebuilding everything from first principles. So, here’s a function that
does exactly what we want:

--- Strana 235 ---
It’s a piecewise function, which means it has two personalities. If the
data point we’re looking at is actually from a malignant tumor, we use
the first case and calculate the loss as 
. If, on the other
hand, the data point belongs to a benign tumor, the loss we use is
. Let’s see a plot of both of these cases in Figure 4.6
to understand why this loss function does exactly what we need.
Figure 4.6     Values for the Negative Log Functions
Picture a doctor examining a scan of what is definitely a malignant
tumor, meaning 
. If our model confidently says 99% chance of
malignancy, that is, 
, what happens to our loss? We get
the loss of 
. That’s a tiny penalty that will help
achieve a lower total loss value. The model gets a gentle pat on the
back for being correct and confident. But what if our model looks at
this same malignant tumor and declares only 10% chance of
malignancy, that is, 
? The loss increases to
. That’s a much larger penalty! It’s like the loss
function is saying, “You were very wrong to be so confident about it
being benign when facing a malignant tumor.”

--- Strana 236 ---
Another case is if our model is completely wrong and says 1%
chance of malignancy or 
. In this case, the loss
skyrockets to 
. It’s the mathematical equivalent of a
serious reprimand for missing a critical diagnosis.
Now, let’s flip to the second case. When a tumor is truly benign (i.e.,
), our loss function becomes 
. If our model
correctly identifies a benign tumor with high confidence, saying “5%
chance of malignancy” (i.e., 
), we get the loss of
. Again, a very small penalty
for being correct and confident. But if our model incorrectly assigns a
high probability to a benign tumor, saying “95% chance of
malignancy” or 
, our loss becomes
. The model receives a
substantial penalty for its misplaced confidence. These cases are
summarized in Table 4.1.
Ground Truth Prediction Loss
Note
1
0.99
0.004 Correct prediction, low loss
1
0.01
2
Incorrect prediction, high loss
0
0.05
0.02
Correct prediction, low loss
0
0.95
1.3
Incorrect prediction, high loss
Table 4.1     Losses Incurred for the Two Ground Truth Cases
What makes this function brilliant is how the negative logarithm
creates a natural, intuitive penalty system:

--- Strana 237 ---
Being slightly wrong results in small penalties.
Being moderately wrong creates moderate penalties.
Being confidently wrong triggers severe penalties.
Looking at the shape of 
, we can see why this works so
beautifully. As x approaches 0, 
 shoots up toward infinity.
This means that as our confidence in the wrong answer increases,
the penalty or loss grows exponentially. It’s like having a coach who
barely notices small mistakes but becomes increasingly vocal as
incorrect actions get more serious—exactly the kind of feedback our
model needs to learn effectively.
There’s one minor issue with this loss function, though. It’s a
piecewise function that is relatively difficult to differentiate and might
lead to a more computationally intensive derivative. Piecewise
functions require separate handling for different input ranges, which
complicates both the mathematical analysis and the implementation
in code.
In addition, it’s much nicer to understand a closed-form function. A
single, unified formula allows us to reason about the behavior of our
loss across all possible inputs without having to consider different
cases separately. This is especially valuable when we’re trying to
optimize the function through gradient descent. So, let’s go ahead
and use a trick to convert this piecewise function to closed form. This
mathematical sleight of hand will give us a single expression that
works everywhere.

--- Strana 238 ---
We see that the first case is applicable when y = 1, so we’ll multiply
the formula for this case with y. The second case applies when y = 0,
so we’ll multiply that with (1-y) and add the two resulting terms
together:
This is elegant because of how the binary values of y interact with
the formula. When y = 1 (malignant tumor), the first term remains as
, whereas the second term becomes 0 because (1-y) =
0. When y = 0 (benign tumor), the first term becomes 0, and only the
second term 
 remains. This means the first term will
cancel out when y = 0, and the second will cancel out when y = 1.
These are switches that are perfectly coordinated—exactly one of
them is always on, and the other is always off.
This elegant formula is called the binary cross-entropy loss in closed
form—one of the most important loss functions in machine learning
due to its significance for binary classification. Not only is it easier to
differentiate mathematically, but it’s also more straightforward to
implement in code as a single, cohesive function rather than a series
of conditional statements. That also means it can take advantage of
all the vectorized code implementations and hardware.
This representation showcases how mathematical expressions can
be manipulated to solve practical problems. We’ve taken a
conceptually simple but computationally awkward piecewise function
and transformed it into a smooth, differentiable expression that will

--- Strana 239 ---
work seamlessly with gradient descent—all while preserving the
exact same behavior for our binary classification problem.
Finally, summing over all the data points and taking the common
negative sign out of the two terms, we get the following final loss
function for binary classification:
As before, we need the derivative of this function; you can go ahead
and compute it yourself or just take the word of mathematicians who
have already calculated it. The derivative in this case turns out to be
the following:
This looks suspiciously like the derivative for MSE, with a familiar
structure that might remind you of our work in regression. But you
must keep in mind that there’s a squishing function hiding inside h(
x). This isn’t a linear function anymore but a squished one, that is,
. This sigmoid transformation fundamentally changes
how the gradient behaves during optimization. While the
mathematical form might appear similar at first glance, the presence
of this nonlinear sigmoid function creates a completely different
learning dynamic. Now, we can go back and use this as the loss
function to reach a decision between the benign and malignant
tumors. Because we use a loss function based on the logarithm (or
log) in classification, we also refer to this type of machine learning as
logistic regression.

--- Strana 240 ---
4.1.5    Squishing Functions and Decision Boundaries
So now we have a loss function and a squishing function after our
linear relationship. Let’s discuss how this is going to help us make
decisions in practice. Moving from theory to application helps us see
how these mathematical tools solve real problems.
This time, we’re actually going to use two features to understand the
concept. Assume we have a problem in which there are two input
features, x1 and x2. The output is some binary class y. Perhaps in
our tumor classification problem, x1 might represent the tumor size,
and x2 might represent the tumor density measured in a scan.
Together, these two features give us a more complete picture than
either one alone.
In addition, assume that we went ahead and applied the gradient
descent algorithm to find the optimal parameters. We’d start with
some random values—perhaps 
, 
, and 
.
These initial values would likely produce poor predictions, with many
tumors misclassified.
With each iteration of gradient descent, we’d take the following
steps:
1. Calculate our current predictions using the sigmoid function.
2. Compute the binary cross-entropy loss to see how wrong we
are.
3. Calculate the gradient (the direction of steepest increase in
error).

--- Strana 241 ---
4. Move in the opposite direction of that gradient.
5. Update our parameters accordingly: 
, 
, and 
.
Initially, these updates might be dramatic as our model flails about
trying to find the right direction. As training progresses, the updates
become more refined. After many iterations, the parameter updates
become tiny, signaling that we’ve reached convergence—the valley
floor of our error landscape. Let’s say we got the following values for
, 
 and 
 (recall that if we have two features, we’ll have 
 as the
bias and two other parameters, one for each feature):
This means that our model is making the following prediction:
And, if this h( x) is greater than 0.5 for some particular data point, we
say that the data point is malignant. Let’s dissect what this means
geometrically. Remember that the sigmoid function equals 0.5
exactly when its input is 0. So, 
 when
Rearranging this by taking the 3 to the other side of the inequality,
we get
This is an elegant result! We get a line—our decision boundary—that
separates malignant predictions from benign predictions. This is

--- Strana 242 ---
. Any point above this line (where 
) will be
classified as malignant, and any point below it (where 
)
will be classified as benign.
Let’s plot this in two dimensions in Figure 4.7. The line 
slices through our feature space at a 45-degree angle (because the
coefficients for both x1 and x2 are equal at 1). This line represents
points where our model is precisely 50% confident—where it’s most
uncertain about the classification.
Figure 4.7     Decision Boundary Based on Hypothesis Function
As we move away from this line in the positive direction (increasing
x1 and/or x2), our model becomes increasingly confident that tumors

--- Strana 243 ---
are malignant. Conversely, moving away from the line in the negative
direction makes our model more confident that tumors are benign.
The bias term 
 shifts this line away from the origin. If 
were 0, our decision boundary would pass through the origin (0,0).
The negative value pushes the line outward, requiring larger feature
values to cross the threshold into malignancy. The model parameters
combined control the rotation of the line. This line is called the
decision boundary of our classifier.
What’s remarkable is that we’ve created this perfect decision
boundary by simply following the gradient of our loss function. The
algorithm discovered on its own that tumors with combined feature
values exceeding 3 should be classified as malignant. We never had
to explicitly program this threshold—it emerged naturally from the
data through our optimization process. This same process gave us a
visual understanding of what our model is learning when it classifies
data points.
This means that our model will now be optimized based on the
correct answers because we’re using binary cross-entropy. If a data
point has a huge tumor size, as we saw earlier, we’ll get a very small
value for loss in binary cross-entropy, and it won’t mess up our
model at all.
What makes binary cross-entropy particularly effective for
classification problems is how it handles outliers and extreme values.
Unlike MSE, which would heavily penalize confident predictions that
are numerically far from the target values, binary cross-entropy only

--- Strana 244 ---
cares about getting the classification right. Consider our previous
problem in Figure 4.5 regarding a patient who had an extremely
large tumor. With MSE, this single data point pulled our entire model
out of alignment because MSE is obsessed with minimizing the
numerical gap between predictions and targets. But binary cross-
entropy approaches the problem differently. It asks: “Did you classify
this correctly? And how confident were you?” If the model correctly
classifies the large tumor as malignant with high confidence, the loss
is tiny regardless of how extreme the tumor size is.
This robustness to outliers is what allows our model to maintain its
performance on the entire dataset rather than being
disproportionately influenced by extreme values. The decision
boundary stays where it should be—optimized for classification
accuracy across all examples, not just the most extreme ones.
4.1.6    Learning Process Summary
Stop here and make sure you understand all these concepts fully.
These are our foundations, and the more comfortable you get with
these, the easier the more detailed concepts will be for you to adapt.
It’s like mastering basic cooking techniques before attempting
complex recipes—having a strong foundation makes everything else
possible.
Here are the important steps of the workflow:
1. We get the dataset.

--- Strana 245 ---
2. We decide on the loss function.
3. We initialize parameter values with some random ones.
4. We run gradient descent until convergence.
This workflow applies across countless machine learning models,
from the simplest linear classifiers to the most sophisticated state-of-
the-art ones.
The most important thing is to realize that our model is just some
numbers in the form of model parameters, and we learn the best
values for them so that the loss is minimized, that is, our answers
are correct depending on our definition of the word. That’s the
elegance of machine learning—we’re not explicitly programming
rules; we’re letting the algorithm discover the optimal parameters to
minimize our carefully designed loss function. For classification
problems, we’ve learned that binary cross-entropy is the appropriate
loss function, paired with a sigmoid activation, to transform our linear
model’s output into a probability. We’ve seen how this allows us to
create decision boundaries in our feature space, turning continuous
inputs into binary decisions.
Keep in mind that the choice of loss function profoundly affects what
our model learns. MSE optimizes for numerical closeness, while
binary cross-entropy optimizes for correct classification decisions.
Aligning your loss function with what you actually care about is
crucial for building effective models.

--- Strana 246 ---
In terms of implementation, we’ll have the dataset in a matrix and the
initial random model parameters in a vector. We’ll feed these along
with the loss function to a black box optimization algorithm. In this
case, it’s raw, core gradient descent. The black box will spit out the
optimized parameter values, which we can then use as our
hypothesis function to predict classes for future data points.
Think of it as assembling a machine from individual components.
Our dataset is the raw material to be processed. Our model
parameters are adjustable knobs that need to be fine-tuned. The
loss function is our quality control metric. And gradient descent is the
methodical worker that keeps adjusting those knobs until the output
quality reaches its best possible level.
The beauty of this approach is its modularity. We can swap different
components without changing the overall workflow:
1. Different datasets provide different challenges.
2. Different initial parameters might lead to different final solutions.
3. Different loss functions prioritize different aspects of correctness.
4. Different optimization algorithms might find solutions more
efficiently.
However, the fundamental process remains the same: optimize
parameters to minimize loss. This pattern repeats across virtually all
machine learning algorithms, from the simplest linear models to the
most complex neural networks.

--- Strana 247 ---
Once training is complete, we’re left with a set of optimized
parameters that define our decision boundary. For new patients with
unknown tumor classifications, we simply plug their feature values
into our hypothesis function, apply the sigmoid transformation, and
compare the result to our threshold. The resulting classification could
help doctors make better treatment decisions, potentially saving
lives.
[»]  Using the Learned Classification Models
Keep in mind that once everything is said and done, we have the
model that we can plug our data into and get the prediction. In
case of the logistic regression that we just derived, the formula is
simply 
.
While we’ve focused on raw gradient descent as our optimization
method, it’s worth noting that modern machine learning frameworks
offer many sophisticated variations that can make the training
process more efficient and effective. Algorithms such as Adaptive
Moment Estimation (Adam), Nesterov-accelerated Adaptive Moment
Estimation (Nadam), Root Mean Square Propagation (RMSprop),
and Adaptive Gradient Algorithm (Adagrad) are all evolutionary
improvements on the basic gradient descent approach. They’re like
specialized tools that have been refined for particular types of
optimization challenges.
These advanced optimizers differ in how they adapt to the learning
process. Some automatically adjust the learning rate for each

--- Strana 248 ---
parameter based on historical gradients. Others incorporate
momentum to help overcome local minima. Some combine multiple
techniques for even better performance. For example, Adam adapts
learning rates for each parameter and incorporates momentum,
making it particularly effective for problems with noisy or sparse
gradients. Nadam enhances this further by incorporating the
Nesterov-accelerated gradient, which looks ahead to where the
parameters are going.
There’s really no need to worry about the detailed workings of these
algorithms. Despite their sophisticated internals, from a practical
standpoint, these optimization algorithms serve the same role in our
workflow. They’re essentially black boxes that take our dataset, loss
function, and initial parameters, and then output optimized
parameters that minimize the loss.
What’s great for practitioners like us is that switching between these
optimizers often requires changing just a single line of code. We can
experiment with different optimizers to see which one works best for
our specific problem without altering our fundamental approach to
model training. Regardless of which optimizer we choose, the core
principle remains the same: We’re searching for the model
parameters that minimize our chosen loss function, allowing us to
make accurate predictions on new data. The optimizers are simply
different paths to reach the same destination, that is, a decision
boundary based on some linear combination of our input features.
The problem is that sometimes a decision boundary simply can’t be

--- Strana 249 ---
created based on a linear relation between inputs and output. We’ll
explain that issue in the next section.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 250 ---
4.2    Nonlinear Relationships and Neural
Networks
So far, we’ve successfully applied gradient descent to classification
problems with linear decision boundaries. Our tumor classification
example worked well because the data could be reasonably
separated by a straight line. However, many real-world problems
simply can’t be solved with linear models, no matter how we adjust
the parameters.
One of the most famous examples of this limitation is the exclusive
OR (XOR) function. XOR is a fundamental logical operation that
returns true only when inputs differ from each other. We can
represent it with a simple truth table as in Table 4.2.
 ⊕ 
0
0
0
0
1
1
1
0
1
1
1
0
Table 4.2     Truth Table for the XOR Operation
In essence, XOR acts as an inequality detector—it outputs 1 when
the inputs are different and 0 when they’re the same. This operation

--- Strana 251 ---
is crucial in numerous computing applications, including the
following:
Error detection in data transmission
Cryptography and data encryption
Digital circuit design
Parity checking in memory systems
Despite its simplicity, XOR presents a fundamental challenge for
linear models. If we plot these four points on a coordinate plane (with
input A and B as x and y coordinates), we face an interesting
dilemma: it’s impossible to draw a single straight line that separates
the points where XOR = 1 from points where XOR = 0.
To verify this, let’s visualize the XOR function graphically through
Figure 4.8. The points (0,0) and (1,1) should be classified as 0, while
points (0,1) and (1,0) should be classified as 1. These points form

--- Strana 252 ---
the corners of a square, with opposite corners belonging to the same
class.
Figure 4.8     Impossible Decision Boundary for the Simple XOR Function
No matter how we position or rotate a straight line on this plane, we
can’t separate all four of these points correctly. This is a fundamental
limitation of linear models—they can only create single straight-line
decision boundaries.
4.2.1    Feature Transformations
Let’s try something that might seem arbitrary at first, but the payoff
will be worth it. Instead of trying to solve the XOR problem directly
using the original features, let’s transform our data a little. We’re

--- Strana 253 ---
going to take our original input features x1 and x2 and create two
new columns based on these. The first new feature is 
,
which is true only when x1 = 1 and x2 = 0. The second new feature is
, which is true only when x1 = 0 and x2 = 1. This will lead to
the truth table shown in Table 4.3. We still have our original four data
points, but we’ve changed how we represent them.
 (A)
 (B)
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
1
1
1
0
0
1
1
0
1
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
Table 4.3     Adding New Features to the XOR Truth Table
Keep in mind that we aren’t computing the exclusive OR of these
new variables. The original inputs and original outputs are still the
same—we’ve just created an intermediate representation of the
inputs. We can plot these transformed points using our new features

--- Strana 254 ---
as the x and y coordinates, along with their corresponding XOR
labels, as shown in Figure 4.9.
Figure 4.9     Modified Features Lead to a Clear Decision Boundary for XOR
When we plot our transformed data, something remarkable happens.
Notice a couple of things: we aren’t plotting x1 and x2 anymore.
We’re plotting A and B—the two new features—for each of the four
data points. The values of XOR are coming from the original dataset.
In this new plot, the first three points are in the same places as
before, but the fourth one, which was at (1, 1), has been shifted to
(0, 0). It’s as if the functions we chose have taken the piece of paper
that the plot was drawn on and bent it in half diagonally, causing the
fourth point to land right on top of the first. This is an important,

--- Strana 255 ---
foundational concept shown visually in Figure 4.10. Once you
internalize this concept, the complexity of modern machine learning
will click into place.
Figure 4.10     Transforming Feature Spaces
In this transformed space, we can easily draw a line, as shown in the
figure, to differentiate between the two classes. This is the key
insight—by transforming our features, we’ve made the previously
inseparable problem linearly separable!
This warping of space illustrates the concept of feature
transformation. In mathematical terms, we’ve applied a function that
maps points from one space (our original x1, x2 space) to another
space (our new A, B space). Mathematicians describe functions as
mappings from a domain (the set of input values) to a range (the set
of output values), where each input is associated with exactly one
output.
What we’ve done here is create a nonlinear transformation that takes
our original 2D input space and maps it to a new 2D space where
the classification problem becomes linearly separable. Specifically,
our transformation has “folded” the input space in such a way that

--- Strana 256 ---
points with the same XOR output value are now on the same side of
a straight line.
This is a powerful concept in machine learning: When data isn’t
linearly separable in its original form, we can sometimes transform it
into a new feature space where it becomes linearly separable. In our
case, we’ve manually defined this transformation, but as we’ll soon
see, neural networks can learn these transformations automatically.
Please spend some time on this to grasp the significance of this
simple operation. We’ve essentially opened up a way to take any
problem that isn’t linearly separable at the moment and somehow
make it so. This way, even if we have a problem in which the
relationship between the inputs and outputs isn’t linear, we can still
apply our gradient descent algorithm after doing some
housekeeping.
What we’ve done is actually quite profound. We’ve taken the original
input features x1 and x2 and transformed them into feature A. We’ve
done the same in another way to transform to feature B. Then, we
input A and B to our logistic regression unit, which creates a linear
decision boundary in this new feature space. This transformation to
another space before performing classification is also known as the
kernel trick—a fundamental concept in machine learning.
There’s a gaping problem here though. Where did this particular
formulation of A and B come from? These particular formulae for A
and B were specific to this problem of XOR. How do we come up

--- Strana 257 ---
with these formulae automatically for new and novel problems? We’ll
answer that in detail in the next section.
4.2.2    The Kernel Trick, Logistic Regression, and All of
Machine Learning
Our discussion of the logistic regression unit of Section 4.1.6 is
summarized in Figure 4.11. Because this whole operation is very
specific, we often represent it as just a circle with inputs to the
circle’s left and outputs to the right. This concise version is also
shown in the figure.
Figure 4.11     Logistic Regression Unit
We’ve stumbled upon something important in our XOR adventure. A
single logistic unit, despite its elegance, has limitations—it can only
draw straight lines through our feature space. For problems like
XOR, we needed to manually craft clever transformations to make
the problem linearly separable.
But here’s the thing: What if we face hundreds or thousands of
complex problems, each requiring its own unique transformation?

--- Strana 258 ---
Creating these kernel tricks by hand would quickly become
overwhelming, like trying to craft a unique key for every lock in a
giant castle. There has to be a better way. What if we could
automate the process of feature transformation itself? Believe it or
not, we already have something that can perform this transformation.
So, we can actually get this transformation for free, as we’ll discuss
next.
Building a Transformation Factory
Rather than manually defining transformations, let’s build a system
that learns them automatically. Here’s how we’ll structure it. Consider
we have two logistic units (let’s call them feature detectors) that take
our original features X₁ and X₂ as inputs. But—and this is the crucial
part—these units aren’t trying to solve our classification problem
directly. Instead, their job is to transform our inputs into a new
feature space.
Each of these units will learn to output a transformed feature. The
first unit might output some value we’ll call A, and the second unit
will output a value B. These A and B values represent our data in a
new space—a space we’re not designing explicitly but rather letting
the system discover on its own.
Once we have these transformed features, we feed them into a third
logistic unit, as shown in Figure 4.12. This final unit takes A and B as
inputs and performs the actual binary classification we care about.

--- Strana 259 ---
Notice how the derivatives for each layer are calculated based on
the loss.
Figure 4.12     Learning Feature Transformations Automatically
What we’ve just described is the simplest possible neural network—
a collection of logistic units, each one named a neuron, arranged in
layers, where each layer feeds its outputs to the next layer:
1. The first layer contains two units that transform the original
features.
2. The second layer contains one unit that makes the final
classification.
The basic structure is that we have an input layer, a layer that
performs transformations (typically referred to as the hidden layer),
and an output layer. This structure has a remarkable property: It can
learn the appropriate transformations needed to solve problems that
a single logistic unit can’t handle. It’s like having assistants who
prepare your ingredients before the head chef combines them into
the final dish.

--- Strana 260 ---
What’s most exciting is that we don’t need to specify what
transformations the first layer should perform. Through the learning
process, which we’ll explore next, these units will discover useful
transformations on their own—transformations that make the
classification problem solvable for the final unit.
In essence, we’re no longer handcrafting the process from input to
output; we’re building a system that figures out the best path by
itself.
Learning Through the Ripple Effect
You might be wondering, “If we’re not telling these intermediate units
what transformations to learn, how do they figure it out on their
own?” That’s the million-dollar question, and the answer reveals the
true elegance of neural networks.
These intermediate units learn through the same mechanism we’ve
been using all along—gradient descent—but with a twist. Instead of
operating in isolation, they learn as part of an interconnected system.
Think of our neural network as a river system. The final classification
is the point where the river meets the ocean—that’s where we
ultimately care about the water flow (our predictions). The
intermediate units are like tributaries feeding into this main river. We
don’t directly control what path each tributary takes, but we do
measure the final outcome at the river mouth. We say that the
derivative is being propagated backwards to the model parameters
in an algorithm known as backpropagation.

--- Strana 261 ---
When our predictions are off, we not only adjust the final classifier
but also send feedback all the way upstream to those intermediate
units. This ripple effect is the heart of what makes neural networks
so powerful.
Here’s the most captivating part: we don’t know in advance what
specific transformations those intermediate units will learn. We’re not
engineering them to perform AND operations, NOT operations, or
any particular mathematical function. We’re simply creating the
conditions that allow them to discover what works best.
Before training, these units are like blank canvases. Their
parameters (weights and biases) start as random values. However,
as training progresses, they gradually fine-tune themselves to
perform transformations that make the final classification task easier.
We didn’t know the exact parameter values our single logistic unit
needed either. We just knew that whatever values minimized the
final loss were the right ones. The same principle applies here, but at
a larger scale. The intermediate units will land on transformations—
whatever they may be—that help minimize that final loss.
This powerful approach is called end-to-end learning. We’re
optimizing the entire system as a unified whole, from raw inputs to
final predictions. The beauty is that each component learns its role in
service of the final objective.
When our network makes accurate predictions, it’s not just because
the final classifier is well-trained. It’s because the whole system has
harmonized—the intermediate units have learned to transform the

--- Strana 262 ---
input data in exactly the ways that make the classification problem
solvable. This is the true power of deep learning: systems that
discover their own path to solving problems, often finding solutions
more elegant and effective than anything we might have engineered
by hand.
The magic happens when we start training. Rather than trying to
tune each neuron individually, we listen to the final loss and make
adjustments throughout the whole chain. We run our inputs through
the entire network, from the first layer of units to the final classifier.
We compare the final output with what we wanted (the true labels)
and calculate how far off we were (the loss). We determine how each
parameter throughout the network contributed to that error. This last
step involves what mathematicians call the chain rule—essentially,
tracking how changes ripple backward through our network.
The best thing is that you don’t need to worry about these complex
derivative calculations! Modern machine learning frameworks such
as TensorFlow and Keras handle all of this mathematical heavy
lifting behind the scenes. These tools can handle the derivative of
one function feeding into another, which feeds into another, and so
on, keeping track of all the intricate mathematical relationships
without you having to write a single derivative formula.
Based on these derivatives, we update all parameters
simultaneously. We initialize all parameters randomly across the
entire network, feed data forward through the network, compute the
loss, calculate how each parameter affects the loss, adjust all

--- Strana 263 ---
parameters slightly to reduce the loss, and repeat until performance
stops improving.
With each iteration, our intermediate units gradually discover useful
transformations, and our final classifier learns to use these
transformed features effectively. What emerges is amazing: a system
that learns to transform data in exactly the ways needed to solve
problems that were previously unsolvable with simple approaches.
No human engineer specified these transformations—they emerged
naturally from the learning process itself.
[+]  The Two Parts of Learning
Our end-to-end learning has two major parts: feature extraction
and discrimination. The first part applies the transformations and
the second performs the actual classification. This basic principle
will come in handy in later, more complex models.
The Math Behind Layers
When we move from a single neuron to a network of neurons, our
mathematical notation needs to level up as well. Remember how we
used a vector θ to represent the weights of our single logistic unit?
Now, we’re dealing with multiple neurons working in concert, so we
need a more powerful representation—enter the matrix.
Think of a matrix as an apartment building where each floor houses
a different neuron. Each neuron has its own set of weights

--- Strana 264 ---
(connections to the previous layer), and we can organize these
weights into a beautiful structure that makes computation not just
possible but elegant.
Let’s say we have a hidden layer with three neurons, each receiving
two inputs (plus a bias). In our new notation, each row of our weight
matrix represents all the weights for a single neuron:
Here, 
 represents the weight connecting the jth input to the ith
neuron. Notice how each column captures everything about one
neuron’s connections. This arrangement is not only aesthetically
pleasing but also computationally brilliant at the same time. When
we want to calculate the outputs of all neurons in a layer, we can do
a single matrix operation as
where X is our input vector (including the bias term), and Z is a
vector containing the pre-activation values for each neuron in the
layer. We then apply our activation function (e.g., the sigmoid) to
each element in Z to get our neuron outputs:
This output is a vector, which is the combined output of all neurons in
this layer. Instead of computing values for each neuron one at a
time, which would take forever, you can direct them all

--- Strana 265 ---
simultaneously. This allows us to compute the outputs of all neurons
in a layer in one swift mathematical motion.
This becomes especially important when we use hardware such as
GPUs. Unlike CPUs, which are designed to do one thing at a time
really well, GPUs excel at doing thousands of simple calculations
simultaneously. They were originally built to render pixels on your
screen in parallel, but as it turns out, they’re perfect for neural
network computations too.
When we organize our neural network using matrices, we’re
essentially preparing our calculations for this parallel processing
power. Each row of calculations can happen independently and
simultaneously on a GPU, dramatically speeding up training and
inference times. What might take hours on a CPU can be reduced to
minutes or even seconds. This matrix representation also makes the
code cleaner and more intuitive. Instead of looping through each
neuron and calculating its output separately, we can express the
entire layer’s computation in a single line of code. Modern deep
learning frameworks such as TensorFlow and PyTorch, which form
the backend for Keras, are built around these matrix operations,
optimizing them even further behind the scenes.
The Next 10 or 100 Steps
So, we’ve successfully added the capability of handling nonlinear
relationships between our inputs and output. Our little network with a
hidden layer can now solve problems such as XOR that stumped our

--- Strana 266 ---
single-neuron approach. It’s like we’ve taught our model to fold a
piece of paper once to separate points that couldn’t be divided by a
straight line. But what if once isn’t enough? What if we need to fold
our paper at least four times before we can successfully separate the
0s from the 1s? The relationship between inputs and outputs in real-
world problems can be incredibly complex, with twists and turns that
a single transformation simply can’t untangle.
Here’s where the true elegance of neural networks materializes. If
one hidden layer lets us perform one transformation, why not add
another? And another after that? Each hidden layer in our network
acts like a master origami artist, taking the paper (our data) and
folding it in precisely the right way. The first layer might create a
mountain fold, the second a valley fold, the third a squash fold, and
so on. Each fold builds upon the previous ones, gradually reshaping
our data space into a form where classification becomes possible.
What’s remarkable is that each of these transformations follows the
same simple template we’ve already discussed. Each neuron does
the following:
1. Takes inputs from the previous layer
2. Weights the inputs according to their importance (i.e., assigns
model parameter values)
3. Sums them up
4. Applies a nonlinear activation function
5. Passes the result forward

--- Strana 267 ---
But when we stack these simple operations one after another, the
combined effect is astonishingly powerful. It’s like how a child can
stack simple wooden blocks to create elaborate castles or how
simple notes combine to form complex symphonies.
The first hidden layer might learn to detect basic patterns—edges,
corners, or simple thresholds. The second layer combines these
basic detections into more complex features, such as shapes or
textures. The third layer might identify even more abstract concepts.
With each layer, the network’s understanding becomes more
sophisticated and more nuanced. This is why we call it deep learning
—depth refers to these multiple layers of transformation, each one
bringing us closer to a space where our classification task becomes
solvable. The complete architecture is referred to as a deep neural
network. A deep neural network is a carefully choreographed
sequence of folds that gradually reveals the inherent structure in our
data.
Again, the best part is that we don’t have to manually design any of
these transformations. Just as with our single hidden layer, the
network discovers them through the learning process, guided only by
the final objective of minimizing our loss function. So, when faced
with complex relationships in your data, remember that sometimes
you need to go deeper. Adding more hidden layers isn’t necessarily
about making your network bigger; instead, it’s about giving your
network the power to discover and apply multiple successive
transformations, each building upon the last, until the seemingly
inseparable becomes beautifully, elegantly separable.

--- Strana 268 ---
[+]  Which Is Better: More Neurons or More Layers?
Keep this important distinction in mind: More neurons in a layer
can find more features at that level of complexity. More layers add
levels of complexity. Sometimes, you’ll need more width,
sometimes more depth, and often a thoughtful combination of
both. The best network architectures balance these two
dimensions based on the specific problem at hand.
In the neural network world, we typically use the letter w instead of 
when referring to these connections. The word weight becomes our
term of choice rather than model parameter, although they mean the
same thing—they’re the values our network adjusts during learning
to improve its performance.
With multiple layers, we adopt a three-index notation: 
. This might
look confusing, but don’t let it deter you from understanding the
underlying concept. Here’s what each index means:
h identifies which layer the weight belongs to.
i points to the neuron in the current layer.
j references the neuron in the previous layer that’s sending its
signal.
It’s like a detailed address system: floor h, apartment i, receiving a
message from neighbor j.

--- Strana 269 ---
For each layer transition in our network, we have an entire matrix of
weights. If we’re going from layer 1 to layer 2, we have W1; from
layer 2 to layer 3, we have W2; and so on.
Each of these matrices has a specific shape determined by how
many neurons are in the connecting layers. If layer h has n neurons
and layer h +1 has m neurons, then Wh will be an m × n matrix. Let’s
close this section by looking at the whole architecture in Figure 4.13.
Notice that, in the output layer, we have a single neuron. This means
we can only get one value out from our last logistic unit that we treat
as a probability and thus get a single prediction of yes or no. What
happens if we instead have more than one neuron in the output
layer? We get something even more interesting that adds a ton of
flexibility without making any major modifications to the semantics of
what we’ve learned so far. We’ll discuss this change in the next
section.
Figure 4.13     Deep Neural Network and Shapes of Parameter Matrices
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 270 ---
4.3    Binary vs. Multi-Class Classification
Remember our first steps into neural networks? We started with a
simple setup: a single neuron making binary classification. Like a
light switch, it would output a number between 0 and 1—a probability
that helped us make yes/no decisions. If the probability crossed 0.5,
we’d say yes; otherwise, no. But real-world problems rarely fit into
such neat binary boxes. Consider building a system to help a
veterinary clinic identify different animals from photographs. You’re
not only asking, “Is this an animal?” You also need to know whether
it’s a cat, a dog, or a horse. It’s like upgrading from that simple light
switch to a sophisticated control panel, where each button serves a
specific purpose. This is an example of the multi-class classification
problem.
How do we tackle this more nuanced challenge? The solution lies in
breaking down our complex question into a series of simpler ones,
leveraging our understanding of binary decisions. This is like
assembling a team of specialized experts, each trained to recognize
one specific type of animal. We’ll walk through this process in the
following sections.
4.3.1    The One-vs-All Approach
We start with our cat specialist—a neuron focused entirely on
identifying cats. When shown a cat picture, it outputs a high

--- Strana 271 ---
probability (close to 1) but stays quiet (close to 0) for any other
animal or object. Through careful training, this neuron develops an
expert eye for distinctly feline features, from whisker patterns to the
unique way cats hold their bodies.
We only consult additional experts if needed. When presented with a
new image, we first ask our cat specialist. If they respond with high
confidence—say, “I’m 85% sure this is a cat!”—we’ve found our
answer and stop there. But if they’re uncertain, reporting something
like “I’m only 30% confident this is a cat,” we bring in our dog expert.
This second expert, another carefully trained neuron, follows the
same principle but focuses on canine characteristics. It has learned
to recognize everything from floppy ears to distinctive snout shapes,
and like our cat expert, it expresses its confidence through a
probability between 0 and 1.
Notice something crucial here: these confidence levels don’t need to
add up to 100%. Each expert is making their own independent
assessment, just like real specialists might sometimes disagree or
see different aspects of the same thing. If we show our system an
ambiguous image—perhaps a stuffed toy with features of multiple
animals—we might get high confidence scores from several experts.
That’s perfectly fine because each one is answering their own
question, not trying to coordinate with the others.
This sequential decision-making process, called one-vs-all approach,
mirrors how human experts might approach the problem: Start with
the most likely category and only explore alternatives if needed. The

--- Strana 272 ---
approach offers the clear advantages of providing a transparent
decision path and gracefully handling uncertainty. When none of our
experts shows sufficient confidence, it might indicate something
entirely new—perhaps an animal we haven’t trained for, or maybe
not an animal at all.
The Independent Nature of Expert Models
What makes this approach particularly interesting is the complete
independence of our three specialists. Rather than sharing a single
brain, each expert—our cat detector, dog detector, and horse
detector—operates as a completely separate model, like different
research teams working in different laboratories across the globe.
This independence opens up unique possibilities for how we can
develop and train these specialists.
Consider three different veterinary research centers, each
specializing in a particular animal. The cat experts might be working
with an extensive database of feline photographs collected from cat
shows, veterinary clinics, and pet photographers. Meanwhile, across
the country, dog specialists could be analyzing images from kennel
clubs, working dog training programs, and even police K-9 units. And
somewhere else entirely, equine researchers might be gathering
data from horse races, breeding farms, and wilderness photography.
Each team brings their unique perspective, expertise, and data
sources to the table.

--- Strana 273 ---
This independence extends beyond just the data. Each model can
be developed using different computing resources, different teams,
and even different technological approaches. The cat detection team
might have access to powerful GPU clusters, allowing them to build
an intricate neural network with dozens of layers. The dog specialists
might prefer using cloud computing services, while the horse experts
might have their own specialized hardware.
Speaking of intricate networks, let’s peek inside what our cat expert
might look like. Rather than being a simple neural network, it could
be a sophisticated system with multiple layers of increasing
complexity. The first few layers might act like digital photography
experts, scanning for basic visual elements—edges, corners, and
simple shapes. Think of them as artistic apprentices learning to
sketch. Moving deeper into the network, we find layers that combine
these basic observations into more complex features: one layer
might specialize in identifying different types of cat ears, while
another becomes an expert at recognizing various tail positions.
Even deeper layers might learn to detect subtle patterns in fur
textures or the unique way a cat’s whiskers catch the light. At the
highest levels, these layers work together to understand complex
combinations of features—the specific curve of a sleeping cat, the
characteristic pose of a cat ready to pounce, or the unique way a cat
sits in a window.
At first glance, this independence seems like a stroke of brilliance.
We can distribute the workload across different teams and
resources. Different experts can focus on what they know best, using

--- Strana 274 ---
whatever tools and approaches work for their specific challenge.
Training costs could be lower because we’re running smaller,
focused models instead of one massive system. It’s like having
specialized clinics instead of one enormous hospital.
The Hidden Cost of Independent Learning
There’s a peculiar inefficiency lurking in this approach of using
independent experts, and it becomes clear when we consider an art
school analogy in which three talented students are each aspiring to
become a specialist in drawing different animals. The first wants to
master drawing cats, the second dogs, and the third horses. Now,
picture these students being sent to three entirely separate art
schools, each starting from scratch. Before they can even begin
drawing their chosen animals, each student must independently
learn the fundamentals: how to hold a pencil, how to sketch basic
shapes, how to understand light and shadow. It’s the same
foundational knowledge being taught three times in three different
places.
This redundancy mirrors exactly what’s happening in our
independent neural networks. Each model, in its early layers, is
essentially learning the same basic visual vocabulary. Think about
the features our animal detectors need to understand: eyes, noses,
and fur textures. These aren’t uniquely cat things, or dog things, or
horse things—they’re fundamental animal features that all our
models need to grasp.

--- Strana 275 ---
Let’s break down what each model must learn step by step: First,
every single model needs to understand edges and basic shapes.
The cat detector spends computational power learning to identify
curved lines and circles. Meanwhile, in another server somewhere,
the dog detector is independently learning these exact same
fundamental patterns. And yes, the horse detector is doing it too.
Then, each model moves on to combining these basic elements into
features such as eyes. They’re all separately discovering how edges
can form circles, how circles can have darker centers, and how
these patterns typically indicate an eye. It’s like having three chefs in
three different kitchens, all learning how to hold a knife correctly
before they can even begin to specialize in their unique cuisines.
When our brain processes an image of an animal, it performs
something interesting. First, it recognizes the universal features that
tell us “this is an eye” or “this is a nose,” and then it notices the
subtle characteristics that tell us “this is specifically a cat’s eye” or
“this is distinctly a dog’s nose.” This natural hierarchy of visual
recognition reveals an important truth about how our neural networks
should approach animal identification.
The same applies to other features. Every nose has nostrils and a
particular texture. Every set of fur has patterns of light and shadow.
Every ear has curves and hollows that capture and channel sound.
These universal features form the foundation of animal recognition,
like the basic alphabet from which all words are built.

--- Strana 276 ---
Once we understand these universal features, we start noticing the
specialized characteristics that make each animal unique. A cat’s
eye has that distinctive vertical pupil that can dilate into an almost
perfect circle in low light. The iris often has intricate patterns that you
won’t find in a dog’s eye. The shape of the eye socket, the
placement of the eyelids, even the pattern of fur around the eye—all
of these elements combine to create what we recognize as uniquely
feline.
Dog eyes tell a different story to a learning machine. They’re typically
rounder, with more visible whites, and they’re set in the face at a
different angle. Their pupils remain circular regardless of light
conditions, and the surrounding facial muscles create those
expressive eyebrows that help dogs communicate with humans.
Some believe these are evolutionary adaptations that serve specific
purposes. What makes this understanding crucial for our neural
networks is that these features don’t exist in isolation. The way a
cat’s eyes work with its nose, the relationship between a dog’s ear
placement and its snout, the proportions of a horse’s facial features
are the relationships creating the holistic patterns that make each
animal instantly recognizable, even in silhouette.
This natural organization of features suggests something important
about how our neural networks should be structured. Rather than
having each network independently learn to recognize eyes, noses,
and fur from scratch, wouldn’t it make more sense to have a shared
foundation that understands these universal features before

--- Strana 277 ---
branching off into specialized layers that learn the unique
characteristics of each animal?
We’ve spent considerable time exploring this fundamental tension in
modern machine learning because it’s one of the most fascinating
debates in our field: Should we build specialized models that excel at
specific tasks or create vast, universal learners that attempt to
understand everything at once? It’s like choosing between training a
team of expert specialists or developing a single Renaissance
scholar who knows a bit of everything.
Let’s take a look at the specialized approach first. Assume you’re
building a smart kitchen. You could have separate devices—one
that’s expert at identifying fresh vegetables, another that’s perfect at
measuring ingredients, and a third that monitors cooking
temperatures. Each device would be relatively simple, quick to train,
and excellent at its specific job. These specialized models offer
several compelling advantages:
Faster training
With a focused dataset and a single task, these models can reach
high-performance levels more quickly.
Lower resource requirements
Smaller models need less computational power and memory.
Easier debugging
When something goes wrong, it’s simpler to identify and fix the
issue.

--- Strana 278 ---
Flexible deployment
You can update or replace individual components without touching
the entire system.
Focused expertise
Like a master craftsperson, they can achieve extraordinary
precision in their specific domain.
However, specialized models come with their own set of challenges:
Redundant learning
As we discussed earlier, they waste resources learning the same
basic features repeatedly.
Limited context
They might miss important connections that come from
understanding broader patterns.
Integration complexity
Getting multiple specialized models to work together smoothly can
be challenging.
Maintenance overhead
Managing many different models can become a logistical
headache.
Now, let’s consider the alternative: the universal learner approach.
Think of this as building a digital version of a human brain—one
massive system that can process and understand virtually anything
you throw at it. Modern large language models and vision

--- Strana 279 ---
transformers follow this philosophy. These comprehensive models
offer intriguing benefits:
Shared understanding
The model learns fundamental patterns once and applies them
across different tasks.
Cross-domain insights
It can discover unexpected connections between seemingly
unrelated areas.
Efficient resource use
While the initial model is huge, it’s often more efficient than
running many smaller models.
Simplified deployment
There’s just one model to maintain and update, rather than many.
Emergent capabilities
These models often develop surprising abilities that weren’t
explicitly trained for.
But this approach isn’t without its drawbacks as well:
Enormous data requirements
These models need vast amounts of diverse data to learn
effectively.
Computational intensity
Training requires significant computational resources and energy.
Complex training dynamics
Balancing performance across many tasks is challenging.

--- Strana 280 ---
Black box nature
Understanding why the model makes specific decisions becomes
more difficult.
Risk of interference
Learning new tasks might degrade performance on previously
learned ones.
The reality is that both approaches have their place in modern
machine learning. Small, specialized models might be perfect for
edge devices or specific industrial applications where precision and
efficiency are paramount. Meanwhile, large universal models might
better serve general-purpose applications where flexibility and
breadth of understanding are crucial.
As our field evolves, we’re increasingly seeing hybrid approaches
that try to capture the best of both worlds—models that start with a
broad foundation of knowledge but can be efficiently specialized for
specific tasks. It’s like having a well-educated generalist who can
quickly adapt to become an expert in particular areas when needed.
However, what modifications do we need to make to our model so
that it doesn’t repeat learning but instead tries to learn the general
features first in a shared manner? This question leads us to the
second type of multi-class classification.

--- Strana 281 ---
4.3.2    The Softmax Classifier
Before we dive into our improved approach to multi-class
classification, we need to take a small but crucial detour to discuss
something that might seem trivial at first: how we represent different
categories with numbers. This might sound simple, but it reveals a
challenge in how neural networks interpret the world.
Think about our animal classification problem. Because computers
work with numbers rather than words, we can’t simply tell our model
to output cat, dog, or horse. Instead, we might be tempted to assign
numbers to each category: let’s say 1 for cats, 2 for dogs, and 3 for
horses. Simple enough, right? Well, not really.
When we use numbers like this, we’re accidentally introducing a
hidden relationship that doesn’t actually exist in our problem.
Numbers, by their very nature, come with built-in ordering—2 is
greater than 1, 3 is greater than 2, and so on. It’s like accidentally
arranging our animals on a hierarchy when we meant to put them in
separate, equal categories.
Think back to Chapter 2, where we learned that neural networks
discover patterns on their own, without us explicitly programming
rules. This is where that characteristic becomes a potential pitfall.
Our model might start treating these numerical labels as meaningful
ordered values rather than arbitrary category markers. It might begin
to think that dogs (category 2) are somehow greater than cats
(category 1) or that horses (category 3) are superior to both—simply
because we happened to assign those particular numbers. This isn’t

--- Strana 282 ---
just a theoretical concern either. These numerical relationships could
influence how our model learns and makes decisions. We could
have just as easily labeled horses as 1, cats as 2, and dogs as 3—
there’s nothing inherently special about any of these assignments.
They’re as arbitrary as assigning house numbers on a street. So,
let’s fix them using a different kind of encoding.
One-Hot Vector Encoding
Instead of using simple numbers, we can employ a more
sophisticated approach using vectors—think of them as digital name
tags with multiple checkboxes. We’ll create a vector with three
positions (one for each animal), where each position can be either
“off” (0) or “on” (1). It’s like having a row of three light switches where
only one switch can be on at a time.
For our cat category, we’ll turn on just the first light: [1, 0, 0]. For
dogs, we’ll use the second position: [0, 1, 0]. And for horses, we’ll
illuminate the third: [0, 0, 1]. This elegant system is known as one-
hot encoding because only one position is “hot” (set to 1) while all
others remain “cold” (set to 0). This simple representation is
therefore called one-hot vector encoding and forms a foundational
concept in modern machine learning.
These vectors thus break free from the pitfalls of numerical ordering.
Think about it: How do you compare [1, 0, 0] with [0, 1, 0]? Is one
greater than the other? It’s like trying to compare apples and
oranges—they’re simply different, not greater or lesser than each

--- Strana 283 ---
other. While these vectors do have mathematical properties we can
measure, such as their magnitude (always 1 in this case because
we’re only using a single 1 and 0s), the vectors themselves resist
any natural ordering. It’s similar to how we might measure the height
of three different trees, but understand that height alone doesn’t
make one tree “better” than another.
This representation carries another mathematically elegant property:
Each label stands equally distant from the others in the mathematical
space they occupy. Consider three points forming an equilateral
triangle—each point is exactly the same distance from the other two.
Our vectors work the same way. The distance between the cat vector
[1, 0, 0] and the dog vector [0, 1, 0] is exactly the same as the
distance between any other pair of animal vectors. This
mathematical equality reflects the true nature of our categories—
different but equal, with no inherent hierarchy or ordering. We can
now go ahead and modify our original binary classification neural
network to perform multi-class classification by modifying the final
layer.
The Softmax Layer
Let’s start with something we know works well: our cat-detecting
neural network. Consider it a highly trained art critic who has spent
years studying cats, learning every subtle detail from whisker
patterns to tail positions. This network has developed an incredible
eye for cat-like features through its many layers of processing—from

--- Strana 284 ---
basic shapes to complex cat-specific patterns. Now, instead of
starting from scratch to detect dogs and horses, we’re going to build
upon this existing expertise. Think of it like expanding our art critic’s
repertoire. We keep all of those carefully trained layers that have
become so good at understanding visual features, but we make one
crucial modification at the very end of the network.
In the final layer, where we previously had a single neuron making
the “cat or not” decision, we now place three neurons side by side.
It’s like having three specialists examining the same artwork
simultaneously: our original cat expert plus new experts for dogs and
horses. Each one will provide their confidence score about the image
belonging to their respective category. When we show this enhanced
network an image, something interesting happens. Each of our three
output neurons makes its own prediction. Let’s say we show it a
picture that has some features of each animal. Our cat specialist
examines the image and declares, “I’m 80% confident this is a cat”
(outputting 0.8). Meanwhile, the dog expert pipes up with “I see
some dog-like features here; I’d say there’s a 60% chance it’s a dog”
(0.6). The horse specialist chimes in with less enthusiasm: “Only
30% chance this is a horse” (0.3).
At this point, you might notice something peculiar about these
predictions. Our three experts seem a bit too enthusiastic. Their
confidence levels add up to more than 100% (0.8 + 0.6 + 0.3 = 1.7).
It’s as if we asked three art critics about a painting’s style, and one
says it’s mostly Impressionist, another says it’s mainly Cubist, and
the third sees significant elements of Abstract Expressionism. While

--- Strana 285 ---
each opinion might make sense in isolation, they can’t all be right to
these degrees simultaneously.
Now that we have our three predictions, we need to transform them
into something that makes more logical sense. While our network
has given us values between 0 and 1 (which is a good start), we
want these values to behave like proper probabilities—in other
words, they should add up to 1, just like the total probability of all
possible outcomes should equal 100%.
Think of it like dividing up a pie chart. No matter how you slice it, all
the pieces must add up to one complete pie. That’s exactly what we
want our predictions to do—each slice representing the probability of
the image being a cat, dog, or horse, with all slices forming one
complete picture.
This is where the softmax function comes to our rescue. It’s like a
mathematical recipe that takes our raw predictions and transforms
them into proper probabilities. Here’s how it works:
Don’t let this formula intimidate you—it’s actually doing something
quite intuitive. For each prediction ( zi), we first make it positive and
more extreme using the exponential function (
), and then divide it
by the sum of all exponentially transformed predictions. It’s like
giving each prediction a fair share of the whole pie, while maintaining
their relative strengths.

--- Strana 286 ---
When we apply this to our earlier example, those somewhat
confusing predictions (0.8, 0.6, and 0.3) get transformed into proper
probabilities that sum to exactly 1. The probability of the input being
a cat is now 0.41, being a dog is 0.34, and being a horse is 0.25. We
can then simply apply the argmax on this to get the cat label. The
beauty of this approach is that we’ve preserved the relative
confidence of each prediction—the cat prediction is still the highest,
followed by dog, then horse—but now they work together as a
cohesive set of probabilities. The final layer of our network
performing this softmax operation is called the softmax layer.
This elegantly sets us up for our next step: calculating the loss
function, which we’ll explore in the next section. But take a moment
to appreciate how we’ve transformed our successful cat-detecting
network into a multi-class classifier with just a few thoughtful
modifications. We kept all the powerful feature-learning capabilities
of our original network and simply added a sophisticated decision-
making layer at the end.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 287 ---
4.4    Loss Functions: Cross-Entropy
Recall the construction we did for binary cross-entropy in
Section 4.1.4. We used it to measure how well our network was
doing at yes/no questions, like “Is this a cat?” It was like having a
teacher who could only grade true/false questions, measuring the
distance between our network’s confident guesses and the actual
truth. This worked beautifully for binary decisions, but now we need
something more sophisticated for our multi-class predictions.
Think about how a teacher grades a multiple-choice test versus a
true/false quiz. In a true/false quiz, being wrong is straightforward—
you picked the wrong answer. But in a multiple-choice scenario, the
nature of being wrong becomes more nuanced. You’re right about
one option and wrong about several others simultaneously. This is
exactly the challenge we face when moving from binary to
categorical cross-entropy, as we’ll discuss in this section.
4.4.1    Categorical Cross-Entropy
Let’s connect this to our recent discussion about softmax outputs.
Remember how we transformed our network’s raw predictions into
proper probabilities that sum to 1? Now, we need a way to measure
how good these predictions are. This is where categorical cross-
entropy steps in, designed specifically to work with probability
distributions across multiple classes.

--- Strana 288 ---
Here’s the mathematical recipe that makes this possible:
Let’s look at this formula piece by piece:
yi represents our true label in one-hot encoded form. Remember
those vectors we talked about? If we’re looking at a cat image, this
would be [1, 0, 0].
hi( x) represents our network’s predictions about the ith data point
after the softmax transformation, that is, those carefully balanced
probabilities that sum to 1.
The log function helps us capture the multiplicative nature of
probabilities in an additive way. This is an important foundational
point in machine learning. (We’ll skip over this for the sake of
brevity but if you’re interested in the theoretical mathematics side
of machine learning, it’s highly recommended you explore this
point in detail.)
The minus sign at the front ensures our loss is positive (because
the log of probabilities gives us negative numbers).
We sum over all classes (C) to consider every possible category
in our final score.
To see how this works in practice, let’s walk through some examples.
Let’s examine how our loss function behaves in three different
scenarios, starting with a nearly perfect prediction. When our
network correctly identifies a cat image with high confidence, it might

--- Strana 289 ---
output something like [0.98, 0.01, 0.01], while our true label is [1,
0, 0]. Working through the loss calculation, we multiply each true
label with the log of its corresponding prediction and sum them up:
Because our true label has 0s in the second and third positions,
those terms vanish, leaving us with just 
. This works
out to approximately 
8, a very small loss. The
number is tiny because the 
 is very close to 0, reflecting
how close our prediction was to perfection.
Now, consider a case where our network is on the right track but less
confident. Given the same cat image, it might output [0.7, 0.2, 0.1].
Following the same calculation process with our true label [1, 0, 0],
we compute:
Again, only the first term matters, giving us
. This larger loss reflects our
network’s uncertainty: While it correctly identified the cat, its 70%
confidence level leaves more room for improvement than our
previous 98% confidence prediction.
Finally, let’s look at what happens when our network gets it
completely wrong, predicting [0.1, 0.8, 0.1] for our cat image. The
calculation

--- Strana 290 ---
gives us a much larger loss of approximately 1. This steep penalty
makes perfect sense: Our network is 90% confident that the image
isn’t a cat (because it only assigns 0.1 probability to the cat category)
when it’s actually looking at one. This large loss sends a clear signal
to our network that it needs to significantly adjust its parameters to
avoid such confident mistakes in the future.
Just as a teacher can tell not only whether an answer is wrong but
how wrong it is, categorical cross-entropy gives us a nuanced
measure of our network’s performance across all possible classes. It
considers whether we got the right answer but also how confident we
were in both our correct and incorrect predictions.
4.4.2    Pitfall to Avoid When Using Cross Entropies
One of the most common misunderstandings I encounter in
applications of neural networks is about cross-entropy loss. Many
newcomers to the field look at their network’s architecture, see
multiple neurons in the final layer, and immediately reach for
categorical cross-entropy. But here’s the truth: The number of output
neurons doesn’t determine which loss function you should use—it’s
the relationship between your predictions that matters.
Think about two different scenarios at a digital art gallery. In the first
scenario, you’re building a system to tag artwork with different
attributes: “Contains Mountains,” “Features Sunset,” and “Includes
Water.” An image might show a beautiful mountain lake at sunset,
earning all three tags. These attributes are independent of each

--- Strana 291 ---
other—having mountains doesn’t prevent you from having a sunset.
This is where binary cross-entropy shines, even with multiple output
neurons.
Let’s consider this in detail with a concrete example. Say you’re
analyzing a landscape photograph:
True labels: [1, 1, 0] (yes mountains, yes sunset, no water)
Network prediction: [0.9, 0.8, 0.1]
Each prediction stands on its own, independent of the others. The
confidence about mountains (0.9) doesn’t affect or compete with the
confidence about sunset (0.8). We evaluate each prediction
separately using binary cross-entropy because each one is
essentially its own yes/no question. This is known as multi-label
classification, and the loss used here is just binary cross-entropy.
Now consider a different scenario: classifying the primary art style of
each piece—Impressionist, Cubist, or Abstract Expressionist.
Categorical cross-entropy becomes essential because these
categories are mutually exclusive. A painting can’t be primarily
Impressionist and primarily Cubist at the same time. When your
network predicts [0.7, 0.2, 0.1] (70% confident it’s Impressionist,
20% Cubist, 10% Abstract), these probabilities must sum to 1
because they represent different parts of the same whole—the
artwork’s primary style.
The key insight is that the choice between binary and categorical
cross-entropy isn’t about the architecture of your network—it’s about

--- Strana 292 ---
the logical relationship between your predictions. Ask yourself: “Can
multiple predictions be true simultaneously?” If yes, treat each
prediction as an independent binary question. If your predictions are
competing for a single truth—such as different art styles or animal
categories—then categorical cross-entropy is your friend. In real-
world applications, this distinction becomes crucial. A medical
diagnosis system might use binary cross-entropy to detect multiple
concurrent conditions (a patient can have both high blood pressure
and diabetes), while an image recognition system using categorical
cross-entropy would classify a car’s make and model (a car can’t be
both a Toyota and a Honda simultaneously). When using categorical
entropy though, you have an optional variant that is sometimes
useful. Let’s close our discussion by going through this last option.
4.4.3    Sparse Categorical Cross-Entropy
In categorical cross-entropy, we were able to apply softmax to get a
cross-entropy loss that facilitates the option of giving a close-enough
option. So, if you have probabilities of 0.5 and 0.4 for two options,
the second option might also be useful to know.
Assume you’re building a machine learning system to predict
clothing sizes. If a customer is actually a size medium and your
system predicts small, that’s not entirely wrong—it’s certainly better
than predicting XXXL. Being “close” in this case carries valuable
information. The same applies to many real-world predictions: age

--- Strana 293 ---
estimation, temperature forecasting, or color classification all benefit
from this notion of approximate correctness.
But there are crucial situations where being close isn’t good enough
at all. Think about a bank’s security system trying to verify your PIN
—it doesn’t matter if you’re almost right. You either have the correct
PIN or you don’t. Sparse categorical cross-entropy comes into play
here as a specialized tool for situations where we need exact
matches and have many possible categories to choose from.
The term “sparse” might sound intimidating, but it’s actually quite
simple. Instead of using those one-hot encoded vectors we
discussed earlier (e.g., [0, 1, 0, 0] for the second category), we just
use a single number to indicate the correct category (e.g., “1” for the
dogs). It’s like the difference between filling out a multiple-choice
quiz by marking every wrong answer with an X and the right answer
with a checkmark, versus simply writing down the correct answer
number. Both methods tell you the same thing, but one is much more
efficient. This efficiency becomes critical when you’re dealing with a
large number of categories.
Assume you’re building a system to recognize different species of
birds—there might be thousands of possibilities. Using regular
categorical cross-entropy, you’d need a vector with thousands of 0s
and a single 1 for each training example. That’s a lot of wasted
memory! With sparse categorical cross-entropy, you just need one
number per example. It’s like the difference between carrying around

--- Strana 294 ---
a massive checklist of every bird species versus just writing down
the name of the bird you saw.
But there’s another crucial aspect to consider: When does being
“close” matter? In some cases, it really doesn’t. Take handwritten
digit recognition—if someone writes an 8, predicting it’s a 7 isn’t
partially correct just because 7 is numerically close to 8. They’re
entirely different symbols, and being off by one is just as wrong as
being off by nine.
However, not all predictions are so black and white. Assume you’re
building a system to predict a person’s age from their photo. If the
true age is 24 and your system predicts 25, that’s a pretty good
guess! The closeness of the prediction carries meaningful
information. The same applies to temperature forecasting—
predicting 72°F when the actual temperature turns out to be 73°F is
a far better prediction than guessing 90°F.
Color classification offers another example of when proximity
matters. In the spectrum of colors, predicting a deep orange when
the true color is red isn’t as severe an error as predicting blue. These
colors exist on a continuous spectrum, and their relationships to
each other carry meaningful information.
This distinction between “exact match needed” and “close enough is
fine” scenarios profoundly influences how we design and train our
models. When using sparse categorical cross-entropy, we’re telling
our model that there’s no middle ground—no partial credit for being
close. Each prediction must stand or fall entirely on its own merit,

--- Strana 295 ---
without any consideration for how “close” it might have been to the
right answer. When our network makes predictions using categorical
cross-entropy, it’s like having a panel of judges all voting
simultaneously. Each judge (represented by values in our softmax
vector) expresses their confidence level, and typically, we listen to
the most confident judge—the highest value in our vector becomes
our prediction.
Sometimes, we might want to consider the runner-up opinions,
especially in creative tasks such as text generation. If you’re writing
a story and you always chose the most obvious next word, your
writing would sound mechanical and predictable. Sometimes, you
want to spice things up by picking a less obvious but still reasonable
choice. It’s like a chef who occasionally experiments with different
spices rather than always reaching for the most common ones.
Let’s say our network is predicting the next word in the sentence:
“The cat sat on the ___.” Our softmax output might look like this:
[mat: 0.5, rug: 0.3, chair: 0.15, table: 0.05]. While “mat” is the
highest probability choice, we might occasionally choose “rug” or
“chair” to add variety to our text. This flexibility doesn’t mean we’re
ranking these words in any absolute sense—“rug” isn’t inherently
“better” than “chair” just because it has a higher probability. Each
probability simply represents how well that word fits in this specific
context. A summary of the three types of cross-entropy losses is
given in Figure 4.14.

--- Strana 296 ---
It’s very important to understand that when we select from our
softmax outputs, we’re not introducing any ordering between our
classes. When our network outputs [0.7, 0.2, 0.1] for our animal
classifier, we’re not saying dogs (0.2) are better than horses (0.1),
we’re just expressing the network’s confidence for this particular
image.
This approach is useful because it maintains the independence of
our classes while giving us the flexibility to make nuanced decisions.
Each prediction stands on its own merits in its specific context, free
from any artificial hierarchy we might accidentally introduce through
numerical labels. Let’s go ahead and revisit our earlier example from
Chapter 2 to see how we’ve already used these concepts in practice.
Figure 4.14     Binary, Categorical, and Sparse Categorical Cross-Entropy Losses
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 297 ---
4.5    Building a Classifier with Gradient
Descent
Recall the MNIST handwritten dataset example we introduced in the
beginning of Chapter 2 and then coded using Keras without fully
dissecting it. Here, we’ll visit some of the more important parts of that
code again and add a lot more explanation to it based on our much
more in-depth understanding of neural networks and machine
learning. We created the Keras model using the code given in
Listing 4.1. You can see the complete code listing for this section on
https://recluze.net/keras-book in the 04-01-classification-model
notebook as well as on the book’s official web page at
http://rheinwerk-computing.com/6142.
# Define the model
model = keras.Sequential([
    Dense(128, activation='relu', input_shape=(64,)),  
    Dense(10, activation='softmax')  # 10 classes (digits 0-9)
])  
Listing 4.1     Layers in the Keras Model
There are a few things that we can now clarify. We’re using what’s
called a Sequential model, which is exactly what it sounds like—a
sequence of layers where information flows in a straight line. Think
of it as an assembly line in a factory, where each station (layer)

--- Strana 298 ---
performs its specific task before passing the product along to the
next station.
This sequential nature is very powerful because it enforces a strict
forward flow of information. When we feed input into our network, it
travels through each layer in order, getting transformed along the
way until it emerges as our final prediction. There’s no skipping
ahead or turning back—each piece of data must follow the same
path through our neural assembly line.
Now, you might wonder about the term feed-forward neural network
that’s often used to describe these models. Don’t let it confuse you
with the concept of backpropagation that we use during training.
Think of it this way: During normal operation, our network is like a
waterfall—data can only flow downward through the layers.
However, during training, we do something clever. After the data has
flowed forward and made a prediction, we calculate how wrong that
prediction was, and then we use this information to adjust our
network’s parameters. It’s like having quality control inspectors at the
end of our assembly line who send feedback to each station about
how to improve their work. The model’s prediction always remains
sequential. We’ll walk through this process in this section.
4.5.1    Layers in Code
Continuing on, both layers in our model are Dense layers, which
means every neuron in one layer is connected to every neuron in the
next layer—it’s like having a fully connected social network where

--- Strana 299 ---
everyone knows everyone else. Our first Dense layer takes 64 inputs
(specified by input_shape=(64,)) and transforms them into 128
outputs. Each of these 128 neurons is connected to all 64 input
values, allowing the layer to learn complex patterns in our data.
These dense connections are powerful because they allow our
network to learn intricate relationships between all of our input
features. Imagine a group of detectives working together, where
each detective can see all the evidence (inputs) and contribute their
insights to help solve the case. Every neuron gets to consider all the
information available from the previous layer before making its
contribution to the next layer’s computation.
Our second dense layer has exactly 10 neurons, each one
specializing in recognizing a specific digit from 0 to 9. Think of these
neurons as a panel of expert judges, where each judge specializes
in one particular digit. When an image comes through our network,
each judge examines it and voices their confidence level: “How sure
am I that this is the digit I specialize in?”
Finally, the softmax activation function steps in, acting like a
diplomatic moderator for our panel of judges. The raw outputs from
our 10 neurons might be all over the place—some high, some low,
some negative. Softmax transforms these raw scores into a more
useful format: probabilities that add up to 1.
For instance, when shown a clearly written “7”, our network might
produce outputs that softmax converts into something like the
following:

--- Strana 300 ---
Digit 0: 0.01 (1% confidence)
Digit 1: 0.02 (2% confidence)
. . .
Digit 7: 0.85 (85% confidence)
. . .
Digit 9: 0.03 (3% confidence)
Here’s where our implementation gets clever with memory efficiency.
Instead of storing our ground truth labels as full one-hot encoded
vectors (i.e., storing 10 numbers for each image, with nine 0s and
one 1), we’re using a sparse representation. Our digits.target has
a shape of (1797,), meaning for each image, we’re just storing a
single number—the correct digit. It’s like having an answer key that
simply lists 7 instead of [0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1,0,0]. If you’re following along
in code, make sure you output the shape of digits.target (our
output variable) and some of its values to ensure you understand
what is being fed to the model. We’ve included the output in
Listing 4.2. The shape of the variable is one-dimensional. That
means it only holds 1,797 scalar values. To fully drive the point
home, we output some values (from 100th value to the 109th value)
and see that the values are indeed scalar and not one-hot vector
encodings. This enables us to use sparse categorical cross-entropy
because the output produced by the model must match with the
output expected; that is, the shape and semantics of the output of
the model and the ground truth must match.

--- Strana 301 ---
print("Shape: ", digits.target.shape)
print(digits.target[100:110])
------
Output: 
Shape:  (1797,)
[4 0 5 3 6 9 6 1 7 5]  
Listing 4.2     Studying the Shapes and Values of the Output Variables
4.5.2    Choice of Loss Function
In other words, this sparse representation is why we use sparse
categorical cross-entropy for our loss function. It’s designed to work
directly with these simple numerical labels rather than requiring the
full one-hot encoded vectors. Think of it as our grading system being
smart enough to understand “the answer is 7” without needing the
long-form version of “it’s not 0, not 1, not 2 . . . it’s 7 . . . not 8, not 9.”
This efficiency not only saves memory but also makes our entire
training process more streamlined. Our network can still learn just as
effectively, but we’re being economical with our resources, like a
teacher who can grade tests just as accurately with a simple answer
key as with a detailed rubric.
Notice the mysterious relu parameter in our first Dense layer? While
we’ll dive deep into the Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU) later in the
book, for now, you can think of it as playing the same role as our
familiar sigmoid function—it’s the neuron’s way of deciding whether
and how strongly to fire based on its inputs. All activation functions
are like each neuron’s decision-making mechanism, determining

--- Strana 302 ---
how to respond to incoming signals. Just as we used sigmoid to
transform our neuron’s output into a nice, bounded range between 0
and 1, ReLU serves a similar purpose, albeit with its own unique
characteristics.
For our current understanding, you can mentally substitute sigmoid
wherever you see relu in the code, and your mental model will still
hold true. Both functions serve as the “should I fire?” decision-maker
for each neuron. They are like light switches—while they might work
slightly differently (one dims smoothly, another clicks on and off),
they both control how the light responds to input. We’re using ReLU
here because it has some nice properties that make our network
learn better and faster, but those are details we’ll explore in a future
discussion. For now, what matters is understanding that this
activation parameter is controlling how each neuron processes and
passes along information, just like sigmoid did in our earlier
examples. Next, we need to understand the number of parameters
each layer has at least in this simple situation so that we can
establish an intuitive sense behind the models.
4.5.3    Parameter Counts
As we discussed earlier, the number of model parameter (or weights
in neural network parlance) depends on the number of neurons in
each layer. Our input layer acts as the gateway to our network,
accepting 64 individual values. Think of these as 64 separate entry
points, each ready to receive a piece of information. This isn’t a layer

--- Strana 303 ---
with trainable parameters—it’s just our data’s entry point into the
network.
The real parameter counting begins with our first Dense layer. With
128 neurons, each one connected to all 64 inputs, we’re creating a
dense web of connections. Let’s consider the math details:
Each connection needs a weight parameter: 64×128 = 8,192
weights.
Each neuron also needs a bias term: 128 additional parameters.
The total for the first layer is 8,192 + 128 = 8,320 parameters.
Our second layer follows the same pattern, but now connecting 128
neurons to 10 output neurons:
Connection weights: 128×10 = 1,280 parameters
Bias terms for each output: 10 additional parameters
Total for second layer: 1,280 + 10 = 1,290 parameters
Rather than doing these calculations manually each time, Keras
provides a convenient summary() function that breaks down these
numbers for us. Looking at Listing 4.3, we can see that our
calculations match perfectly:
First Dense layer: 8,320 parameters
Second Dense layer: 1,290 parameters
model.summary()
---- Output (modified format for readability in print) 
Model: "sequential"

--- Strana 304 ---
Layer (type)      Output Shape       Param # 
------------      ------------       ------------
dense (Dense)     (None, 128)         8,320 
dense_1 (Dense)   (None, 10)          1,290 
------------      ------------       ------------
Total params: 28,832 (112.63 KB)
Trainable params: 9,610 (37.54 KB)
Non-trainable params: 0 (0.00 B)
Optimizer params: 19,222 (75.09 KB)  
Listing 4.3     Model’s Summary Output by Keras
The summary also provides additional useful information. Notice how
it shows the output shape (None, 128) for the first layer and (None,
10) for the second? The None here represents the batch size, which
can be flexible, while the second number shows how many values
each layer produces. What’s particularly interesting in the summary
is the breakdown of total parameters into different categories. While
our hand calculations covered the trainable parameters (9,610), the
summary shows us the full picture, including optimizer parameters.
This comprehensive view helps us understand not just the
architecture of our network but also the computational resources it
requires.
We’ve just walked through a seemingly simple piece of Keras code,
but like a masterfully crafted puzzle box, each line contains multiple
compartments of complexity waiting to be understood. Keras code is
remarkably dense—every parameter and choice of component
carries significant weight. These few lines of code represent dozens

--- Strana 305 ---
of crucial decisions, each one requiring a deep understanding of the
underlying mathematical and computational principles.
4.5.4    The Density of Keras Code
This density of decisions is precisely why you can’t approach Keras
like a cookbook, blindly following recipes and hoping they’ll work.
Making changes without understanding the foundations is like trying
to modify a recipe without knowing how ingredients interact with
each other—you might accidentally turn your soufflé into a pancake!
But now that we’ve built a solid foundation, let’s turn this into an
opportunity for exploration. Here are some experiments you can try,
each one designed to deepen your understanding of how these
components work together:
Cross-entropy type exploration
Think back to our discussion about binary versus categorical
cross-entropy. Try switching between them and observing what
happens. Does the network behave as you’d expect? If you see
the accuracy plummet, can you explain why based on what we
learned about these loss functions?
Experimenting with architecture changes
Add another Dense layer to your Sequential model. It’s as simple
as adding another line, but the implications are profound. Try
different sizes—maybe add a layer of 64 neurons between our
existing layers, as shown in Listing 4.4. Watch how the network’s
behavior changes. Is more always better?

--- Strana 306 ---
model = keras.Sequential([
    Dense(128, activation='relu', input_shape=(64,)),
    Dense(64, activation='relu'),  # New layer!
    Dense(10, activation='softmax')
])  
Listing 4.4     Adding a New Layer to the Keras Model
Experimenting with activation functions
Remember our discussion about ReLU? Try changing those
activation functions. Swap relu for sigmoid, and observe the
differences. Each activation function has its own personality. How
does it affect your network’s learning?
Effects of softmax
Here’s a particularly interesting experiment: Replace the softmax
activation in the final layer with sigmoid. Instead of getting nicely
normalized probabilities that sum to 1, you’ll get independent 0–1
predictions for each class. Think about why this might be
problematic for classification tasks.
As you experiment, keep track of your network’s accuracy, that is,
how many predictions it gets right. We’ll define accuracy more
formally soon, but for now, think of it as your network’s report card.
Watch how each change affects this score, but more importantly, try
to understand why each change has the effect it does.
Remember, the goal isn’t just to try different combinations until
something works. It’s to build an intuition for how these components
interact. This deep understanding is what will eventually allow you to
architect neural networks that solve real-world problems effectively.

--- Strana 307 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 308 ---
4.6    Summary
In this chapter, we’ve evolved from simple linear regression to the
rich landscape of multi-class classification, discovering how neural
networks can make sophisticated distinctions between multiple
categories. We learned how to represent different classes using
vectors rather than simple numbers, preventing accidental
hierarchies in our data. The softmax function emerged as our
mathematical lens, transforming raw neural outputs into meaningful
probability distributions, while our exploration of cross-entropy loss—
both binary and categorical—revealed the crucial distinction between
independent events and mutually exclusive categories.
These theoretical concepts come to life in our Keras code, where
each line represents crucial decisions that demand deep
understanding. Your mastery of neural networks requires grasping
these fundamental principles. Before moving forward, ensure you’ve
internalized these core concepts: the independence of vector
representations, the role of softmax in creating probability
distributions, and the vital distinction between different types of
cross-entropy loss. They’re the foundation upon which all advanced
neural network architectures are built.
In the next chapter, we’ll dive deeper into Keras to fill in all the blanks
that we’ve left until this point. The syntax and design decisions will
be explained in full, giving you a better appreciation of how Keras

--- Strana 309 ---
can help you solve the problems discussed until now as well as lay
the foundation for more complex models studied later.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 310 ---
5    Deep Dive into Keras
In this chapter, we’ll finally dive deep into Keras. After
examining the core technologies that power Keras, we’ll
construct a practical image classifier that distinguishes
between cats and dogs. Through this hands-on project, we’ll
implement each essential component of the machine learning
workflow: data preparation, model design, training, evaluation
with multiple metrics, and model preservation. By the chapter’s
end, you’ll have mastered the fundamental patterns that form
the foundation for all your future deep-learning projects.
So far, we’ve been working with neural networks from the ground up,
painstakingly crafting gradient descent algorithms, designing loss
functions, and manually calculating derivatives. It’s been like learning
to build a car by first understanding how each gear, piston, and spark
plug works together. You get such a deep understanding of the
underlying system that you can find bugs and improve your models
at a much faster pace. But now, with that foundational knowledge
firmly in place, it’s time to accelerate your learning and productivity.
Enter Keras—the framework that transforms how we build and train
neural networks.

--- Strana 311 ---
We’ve deliberately waited until this point to introduce Keras. To truly
appreciate the elegance and power of this framework, you needed to
first understand the complex mathematical machinery working
beneath the surface. You now possess the insight to recognize what
Keras is doing behind its clean, intuitive interface. Think of the
previous chapters as learning to build a car by hand, understanding
how each component functions, how the transmission transfers
power, and how the electrical system operates. Now, you’re ready to
step into a modern automotive factory with specialized tools and
assembly lines that make you vastly more efficient without sacrificing
your understanding of automotive engineering.
In this chapter, we’re going to explore Keras from multiple angles:
First, we’ll introduce the Keras framework itself—a little bit of its
history, philosophy, and why it has become such a central tool in the
machine learning ecosystem. You’ll learn how Keras emerged during
a critical transition period in deep learning and how its design
principles have stood the test of time even as underlying
technologies have evolved dramatically.
Next, we’ll roll up our sleeves and set up Keras on your local
machine. We won’t just stop there—we’ll return to the Google Colab
environment we established earlier and fine-tune its configuration to
create an optimal development environment. This dual approach
ensures you can work effectively regardless of your preferred setup.
Then comes the exciting part—building your first model with Keras.
But this won’t be a superficial tour of application programming

--- Strana 312 ---
interface (API) calls any more. We’ll peel back the layers to examine
what’s happening underneath, exploring the fundamental concepts
that power modern machine learning frameworks. You’ll discover the
magic of symbolic computation that allows automatic differentiation
to work so seamlessly. We’ll reconnect with our old friend NumPy to
understand how Keras interfaces with these essential numerical
libraries. Rather than treating Keras as a mysterious black box, you’ll
gain crystal-clear insight into its inner workings.
As we progress, we’ll tackle more sophisticated examples that
implement the gradient descent and classification techniques you’ve
already mastered. However, we’ll now address the practical
challenges that arise in real-world scenarios: How do you monitor a
model during training? How do you save your work and resume it
later? How do you extract meaningful information as your model
learns? Through callbacks, model serialization, and other essential
utilities, you’ll develop a professional workflow that scales to complex
projects.
What sets this chapter apart from many Keras tutorials is our
commitment to understanding not just how to use Keras, but why it
works the way it does. By the end of this chapter, you’ll grasp the
design philosophies that shaped Keras development and the careful
trade-offs its creators made to balance simplicity with power. This
deeper understanding will transform how you write your own code.
You’ll learn to work with Keras rather than around it, leveraging its
strengths while avoiding common pitfalls. When you encounter

--- Strana 313 ---
problems—and all developers do—you’ll have the knowledge to
diagnose issues efficiently instead of resorting to trial-and-error fixes.
The journey ahead is both practical and illuminating. You’ll gain
powerful tools that accelerate your productivity while deepening your
understanding of the principles that make deep learning work. Let’s
begin our exploration of Keras—the framework that will become your
most trusted tool throughout the rest of this book and beyond.
5.1    Introduction to Keras Framework
Imagine having a universal translator that lets you express your
ideas in English yet be perfectly understood by speakers of Swiss,
Japanese, or Urdu. In the world of deep learning, Keras serves
exactly this purpose—it’s the translator that allows you to write your
model once and have it run anywhere, on any major framework.
When deep learning began gaining momentum, early practitioners
faced a daunting challenge. Frameworks such as Theano offered
tremendous power but demanded technical expertise that distracted
from the actual goal: building intelligent systems. Working with these
tools felt like trying to write poetry while simultaneously having to
manufacture your own pen and paper.
Keras emerged as an elegant solution to this problem. Rather than
replacing powerful frameworks such as Theano, it wrapped around
them, providing a consistent, intuitive interface that shielded users
from unnecessary technical complexities. You could focus on the

--- Strana 314 ---
architecture of your ideas—how many layers to use, what activation
functions to apply—without getting lost in implementation details.
Next, we’ll discuss the core design decisions behind Keras and how
they led to the creation of this modern powerhouse of a framework.
5.1.1    The Philosophy Behind Keras: Making AI Human-
Friendly
At its heart, Keras emerged from a profound belief that machine
learning should be accessible to everyone, not just specialists.
François Chollet, the creator of Keras, envisioned a framework that
democratized deep learning by removing technical barriers. This
philosophy manifests in what Chollet calls “progressive disclosure of
complexity.” Think about how you learn to use a new smartphone—
you can make calls immediately, but then gradually discover
advanced features as you need them. Keras works the same way.
Simple tasks require just a few lines of code, while advanced
capabilities remain available without overwhelming beginners.
The guiding principles of Keras—simplicity, modularity, and
extensibility—aren’t just technical design choices but reflections of a
human-centered approach to technology. By prioritizing developer
experience, Keras acknowledges that even the most sophisticated
algorithms are useless if humans struggle to implement them
effectively.

--- Strana 315 ---
5.1.2    Evolution Through Adaptability
Keras’s design prioritized adaptability from day one. Initially working
primarily with Theano as its computational backend, Keras was
architected to potentially work with any backend. This foresight
proved invaluable as the landscape shifted. When Google’s
TensorFlow arrived on the scene, Keras demonstrated its greatest
strength: users could switch their models to this new, powerful
backend without rewriting their code—the same models, the same
API, but now powered by different engines under the hood. I was
teaching machine learning to a class of undergraduates at that time,
and the students not only were able to understand TensorFlow in a
one-hour lesson but were also able to port their Keras expertise to
this new, powerful framework very easily.
The relationship between Keras and TensorFlow grew so synergistic
that Keras was eventually integrated into TensorFlow as tf.keras,
becoming its official high-level API. Yet Keras maintained its identity
and philosophy of framework independence. The core strength of
Keras is its modular nature. Its components work really well together
but are loosely coupled. They also play very nicely with the
ecosystem of supporting libraries and underlying engines. Look at

--- Strana 316 ---
Figure 5.1 for a brief overview of the components involved in a Keras
setup.
Figure 5.1     Keras Components and Ecosystem
This figure illustrates the Keras deep learning ecosystem,
showcasing how various components work together to create a
comprehensive framework for building and deploying neural
networks.
At the center, we see the core Keras Components, which form the
heart of any deep learning project and will all be discussed in this
chapter:
Layers provide the fundamental building blocks where data
transformations occur.
Optimizers control how the model learns from its mistakes during
training.
Loss Functions measure how far the model’s predictions are
from the truth.

--- Strana 317 ---
Callbacks execute important actions at specific points in the
training process.
Metrics help us evaluate model performance beyond just the loss
value.
Model Storage preserves our trained models for future use.
All of these components connect to Backend Engines, which serve
as the computational foundation. Keras can wrap around
TensorFlow, PyTorch, or JAX to perform the actual mathematical
operations, giving users flexibility in choosing their preferred
framework. Below these engines, we see hardware acceleration
technologies such as CUDA Drivers/Toolkit and cuDNN, which
enable neural networks to run efficiently on specialized hardware.
The Support column shows important auxiliary technologies that
extend Keras capabilities. NumPy provides essential array
operations, scikit-learn offers complementary machine learning
tools, HDF5 enables efficient storage and retrieval of model data,
and Tuner from Keras automates the search for optimal model
configurations. We’ll get to some of these components in the
following sections and leave a detailed discussion about the rest for
future chapters in this book.
This ecosystem design allows Keras to serve as both a beginner-
friendly entry point and a professional-grade framework for deep
learning, with each component handling a specific responsibility
while communicating seamlessly with the others. This

--- Strana 318 ---
communication becomes especially useful when we consider the
multi-engine support provided by Keras.
5.1.3    Keras 3.0: The Multi-Engine Framework
With version 3.0, Keras took a giant leap toward its original vision of
complete backend neutrality. Now, Keras can seamlessly work with
three major deep learning frameworks:
TensorFlow
Google’s comprehensive machine learning platform that excels in
production deployment and distributed training. It offers a
complete ecosystem that includes serving infrastructure
(TensorFlow Serving), visualization tools (TensorBoard), and
mobile deployment options (TensorFlow Lite). TensorFlow’s static
computational graph approach provides optimization benefits for
fixed-architecture models, and its distributed training capabilities
make it suitable for large-scale industrial applications. With
features such as eager execution introduced in TensorFlow 2.0, it
combines immediate execution for debugging with graph-based
optimization for performance.
PyTorch
Facebook’s framework known for its dynamic computational graph
and intuitive, Pythonic design. PyTorch has gained enormous
popularity in research settings for its flexibility, transparent
debugging experience, and natural integration with Python control
flow. Its define-by-run approach means computational graphs are

--- Strana 319 ---
built on the fly during execution, making complex model
architectures with conditional operations more intuitive to
implement. PyTorch’s strong GPU acceleration, comprehensive
libraries such as torchvision and torchaudio, and seamless
integration with Python data science tools have made it the
dominant framework in many research domains, particularly in
natural language processing and computer vision.
JAX
A newer entrant from Google Research that combines autograd
(automatic gradient) and Accelerated Linear Algebra (XLA) for
high-performance numerical computing. JAX is particularly strong
for research applications requiring function transformations and
just-in-time compilation. Its functional design allows for powerful
operations such as automatic vectorization (vmap), automatic
differentiation and parallelization (pmap) to be composed together.
This makes JAX exceptionally well-suited for implementing
advanced algorithms such as differentiable ray tracers, scientific
simulations, and reinforcement learning systems. While less
mature in its ecosystem than TensorFlow or PyTorch, JAX offers
compelling performance advantages for certain mathematical
workloads.
This multi-backend support means you can write your model once in
Keras and run it on whichever framework best suits your current
needs—without changing a single line of your model code.

--- Strana 320 ---
Perhaps the most compelling aspect of Keras is how it future-proofs
your skills and code. The deep learning landscape evolves rapidly,
with new frameworks and optimizations appearing regularly. By
writing code in Keras with best practices, you create models that ride
these waves of innovation rather than being washed away by them.
For example, if your organization initially standardized on
TensorFlow but later needs PyTorch’s research-friendly features for a
specific project, your Keras models can transition without a complete
rewrite. You can even switch frameworks through configuration
changes, preserving your investment in model development.
5.1.4    Key Strengths of Keras
Keras has earned its reputation as the go-to high-level API for deep
learning by offering several distinct advantages:
Intuitive API design
Keras follows the principle of progressive disclosure of complexity.
Simple tasks remain simple, requiring minimal code, while
complex architectures remain possible without artificial
constraints. This human-centered design makes deep learning
more accessible to beginners while still serving the needs of
experts.
Consistency across backends
Whether running on TensorFlow, PyTorch, or JAX, Keras provides
a consistent experience. This uniformity means you develop

--- Strana 321 ---
transferable skills rather than framework-specific knowledge that
might become obsolete.
Rapid prototyping
The clean, modular design of Keras enables quick
experimentation. You can assemble models like building blocks,
swap components with minimal friction, and iterate rapidly on your
ideas, significantly speeding up the research and development
cycle. You’ve already seen examples of these simple pieces of
code in previous chapters.
Production readiness
Despite its simplicity, Keras doesn’t sacrifice performance or
scalability. Models built with Keras can be deployed in production
environments with the full performance benefits of the underlying
backend.
Extensive ecosystem
Keras comes with pretrained models, datasets, and layers that
accelerate development. The wide adoption of Keras has created
a rich ecosystem of tutorials, examples, and community support
that makes solving problems easier.
Modularity and extensibility
If you need functionality beyond what’s included, Keras allows you
to create custom layers, losses, and metrics. This extensibility
means you’re never constrained by the built-in components.
The community: Keras’ hidden strength
When you adopt Keras, you’re joining a global community of

--- Strana 322 ---
practitioners. This vibrant ecosystem of developers, researchers,
and educators has become one of Keras’s most valuable assets.
The Keras community functions like a collaborative knowledge
network, where solutions propagate rapidly. When someone
solves a challenging implementation problem in Tokyo, their
solution becomes available to a student in Santiago almost
immediately through forums, repositories, and documentation.
This collaborative spirit has led to community-driven extensions,
specialized implementations for niche problems, and an
abundance of learning resources that range from beginner
tutorials to cutting-edge research implementations. The “wisdom
of the crowd” effect means that common bugs get rapid fixes,
documentation gaps get filled, and best practices emerge naturally
through thousands of interactions. The Keras blog has some of
the greatest documentation of latest models available for free.
Perhaps most notably, the community’s emphasis on accessibility
aligns perfectly with Keras’ own values. Experienced practitioners
take time to mentor newcomers, complex concepts get translated
into understandable examples, and the culture remains
refreshingly welcoming compared to some more technical
communities.
5.1.5    Keras in the Real World
The true test of any framework is what people build with it, and
Keras powers an impressive array of real-world applications across

--- Strana 323 ---
industries:
In healthcare, medical researchers at Stanford used Keras to
develop deep learning models that can identify skin cancer with
accuracy rivaling dermatologists. The framework’s flexibility
allowed them to experiment rapidly with different architectures
while its clean API made collaboration between medical experts
and AI specialists more seamless.
Netflix uses Keras to power parts of its recommendation engine,
processing massive datasets to understand viewer preferences.
The ability to customize and extend Keras components has been
crucial for adapting models to their specific needs while
maintaining performance at scale.
Conservation biologists deployed Keras models on edge devices
in rainforests to monitor endangered species through audio
recognition. Keras’ ability to work with TensorFlow Lite made it
possible to run sophisticated neural networks on low-power
devices in remote locations.
Automotive manufacturers employ Keras in developing advanced
driver assistance systems, where its transparent design makes it
easier to audit and validate models—a critical requirement in
safety-critical applications.
These diverse applications share a common thread: Keras removed
barriers between domain expertise and AI capabilities. Whether the
practitioners were doctors, conservation scientists, or artists, Keras
allowed them to translate their specialized knowledge into working AI

--- Strana 324 ---
systems without becoming deep learning experts first. You’re already
familiar with the deep learning framework, so you are in a much
better position to harness the power of Karas—either by running it
online or setting it up on your machine as we’ll discuss next.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 325 ---
5.2    Setting Up Keras
A properly configured deep learning environment is your professional
kitchen, letting you cook up amazing AI models without fighting your
tools. Deep learning is computationally hungry. Without the right
setup, your models might take days instead of hours to train, or
worse, crash mysteriously after running for hours. The time you
invest in proper configuration now will save you countless hours of
frustration later.
For our Keras 3.0 installation, we’ll need several key ingredients:
Python
This is our foundation language.
Backend framework
The frameworks include TensorFlow, PyTorch, or JAX (we’ll focus
on TensorFlow as it’s the most beginner-friendly).
CUDA Deep Neural Network Library (cuDNN)
This is the special sauce that unlocks your GPU’s power.
Keras
Our high-level interface makes building models intuitive.
Supporting libraries
Essential tools are available such as NumPy and matplotlib.
Before we dive in, let’s gather some information about your system:

--- Strana 326 ---
What operating system are you running?
What is your CPU model?
Do you have a compatible GPU? (NVIDIA cards work best.)
Do you have at least 10 GB of free disk space for different
datasets?
Do you have administrator access?
Having these answers ready will make your workflow much
smoother. Let’s begin building your AI laboratory! If you don’t have a
GPU, it’s still okay to proceed. The models will run slower but you’re
learning right now, so it’s fine. If you don’t have the space, that might
be a larger problem. In either of these two cases, you can continue
to use Colab, which we discussed in Chapter 2. At the end of this
section, we’ll help you optimize that environment as well. So, let’s
begin the first step—Python.
[+]  Frustrations in Local Setup of Keras
If you find yourself tangled in installation wires and configuration
knots, don’t let frustration take over—Colab offers a ready-to-use
environment where Keras is already configured and waiting for
you. You can always circle back to setting up your local
environment once you’re comfortable with the ecosystem and
have built a few models, allowing you to approach the installation
process with more confidence and practical understanding. In this
case, feel free to jump over to Section 5.2.5.

--- Strana 327 ---
5.2.1    Setting Up Python
Keras 3.0 needs Python 3.9 or newer to work its magic, but Python
3.10 hits the sweet spot. While Python 3.11 and newer versions offer
speed improvements, they sometimes clash with deep learning
libraries. Think of Python 3.10 as the reliable foundation that
everything else can safely build upon. Because this is a printed
book, supported Python versions might change. It’s recommended
that you visit the official Keras page to find out which versions are
recommended and just replace the version numbers in the
commands discussed here. In any case, you have two major options
for setting up Python, which we’ll cover in the following sections. I
prefer the second method, but both work fine.
Option 1: Direct Python Installation
Installing Python directly gives you precise control over your setup—
perfect for those who like to understand every piece of their system.
In the follow sections, we’ll cover installation for Windows, MacOS,
and Linux.
Windows Installation
For Windows, the process is straightforward:
1. Visit www.python.org, download the Python 3.10 installer, and
execute it.

--- Strana 328 ---
2. During installation, select the Add Python to PATH checkbox.
This seemingly small checkbox saves enormous headaches
later.
3. Select the Disable path length limit option, which is another
small setting with big benefits.
4. After installation, open Command Prompt, and type the
command to check the Python version, as shown in Listing 5.1.
python --version
pip --version  
Listing 5.1     Checking the Python Version
If you see Python 3.10.x (or whatever the recommended version at
the time is), you’re on the right track! Also consider installing Visual
C++ Build Tools, as some packages need them for compilation.
MacOS Installation
If you’re using a Mac, you have two excellent options: Homebrew
and the official installer from Python. Using Homebrew (the package
manager that makes life easier on the Mac), you can just issue the
following command:
brew install python@3.10  
Alternatively, you can download the official installer from
www.python.org. After installation, verify that Python is ready using
the command given previously in Listing 5.1. Notice we use python

--- Strana 329 ---
here—macOS often has Python 2 installed as python, so be specific
by using python3 if you get an incorrect version with the general
command!
Linux Installation
Linux users, your system probably already has Python, but maybe
not the version we need. Update your repository and install Python
as suggested in Listing 5.2.
# For Ubuntu or Debian 
sudo apt update
sudo apt install python3.10 python3.10-dev python3.10-venv 
python3-pip
# For Fedora, RHEL, or CentOS
sudo dnf install python3.10 python3.10-devel  
Listing 5.2     Installing Python on Linux
Confirm your installation as given earlier in Listing 5.1.
Managing Multiple Python Versions
Sometimes, you need different Python versions for different projects.
When you’re working with different tools and codebases, you might
need to work with different Python versions. While an in-depth
discussion of this issue is beyond the scope of this book, here are
some tools that discuss these issues and provide solutions (we
recommend reading through their documentation to familiarize
yourself):

--- Strana 330 ---
pyenv
Lets you switch Python versions with simple commands.
Python Launcher (Windows)
Runs specific versions with py -3.10.
Virtual environments
Creates isolated spaces for each project.
Option 2: Using Anaconda for Python
My personal favorite, Anaconda gets you a fully equipped laboratory
instead of building one tool at a time. It comes with Python and many
scientific packages pre-installed. Conda environments give you
superpowers:
Project isolation
Keep your projects from interfering with each other.
Easy sharing
One command creates the same environment on another
computer.
Binary packages
It’s often faster to install than compiling from source.
Simple management
Create, activate, and switch environments with clear commands.
Works everywhere
The same commands work on Windows, macOS, and Linux.

--- Strana 331 ---
After installing Anaconda from www.anaconda.com, open your
terminal (Linux or Mac) or Anaconda prompt (Windows), and create
a specialized environment using the command:
conda create -n keras-env python=3.10  
Then, activate your new environment using the following:
conda activate keras-env  
Now you’re working in a clean, controlled space perfect for deep
learning experiments.
Verify that your Python installation is working correctly, as shown
earlier in Listing 5.1. With Python working correctly, we’re ready to
add TensorFlow, the powerful engine that will drive our Keras
models.
5.2.2    TensorFlow Installation and Points to Keep in
Mind
Now that Python is properly set up, let’s bring TensorFlow into our
environment. TensorFlow will serve as the computational engine that
powers our Keras models, handling all the complex matrix
operations and gradient calculations behind the scenes.
Understanding TensorFlow Versions and Compatibility
TensorFlow releases follow a version numbering system that helps
us understand compatibility. Here’s what you need to know:

--- Strana 332 ---
TensorFlow 2.x represents a major shift from the original TensorFlow
1.x, with eager execution by default and tighter Keras integration.
For our Keras 3.0 projects, we’ll use TensorFlow 2.x (preferably 2.10
or newer). Version compatibility matters tremendously in the deep
learning ecosystem. When selecting your TensorFlow version,
consider these relationships:
Python compatibility
TensorFlow 2.10+ works with Python 3.7–3.10.
CUDA compatibility
Each TensorFlow version works with specific CUDA versions,
which can be seen on the official TensorFlow installation pages.
cuDNN compatibility
Both TensorFlow and CUDA versions dictate which cuDNN
version you need.
The safest approach? Install the latest stable TensorFlow version
that’s compatible with your Python version. This generally provides
the best performance and access to newer features.
CPU vs. GPU Considerations
Before installing TensorFlow, you’ll need to decide between CPU-
only and GPU-accelerated versions. Let’s talk about the differences.
CPU-only TensorFlow works on any computer without special
hardware requirements. It’s significantly easier to install because you
won’t need to worry about CUDA or cuDNN configurations. This

--- Strana 333 ---
version is perfectly sufficient for learning TensorFlow fundamentals
and experimenting with smaller models. The main drawback is
performance: Training will be much slower, especially as your
models grow in size and complexity.
GPU-accelerated TensorFlow requires an NVIDIA GPU, specifically
from the GeForce GTX/RTX, Tesla, or Quadro series. You’ll need to
install additional CUDA and cuDNN libraries to enable GPU support.
The extra setup complexity pays off tremendously in performance,
offering 10–50 times faster training times for most models. This
acceleration becomes essential when working with larger models
and datasets, where training on CPU alone might take days instead
of hours.
[+]  Practical Recommendation
If you have a compatible NVIDIA GPU with at least 4 GB of
memory, go with the GPU version. The speed difference is
substantial and will save you countless hours when training real
models. If you’re just getting started or working on a machine
without a compatible GPU, the CPU version will still let you learn
and experiment.
If you don’t have such a GPU, go through the setup and run a
small model on your local machine, but then return to Colab to
save time. Section 5.2.5 shows you how to do this. This way, you
learn the details of installation but still don’t waste countless hours
waiting for your models to train.

--- Strana 334 ---
Installation Methods
The recommended method is to install TensorFlow with pip. This is
straightforward. Open your terminal or command prompt, and issue
this command:
pip install tensorflow  
Starting with TensorFlow 2.10, the same package supports both
CPU and GPU. TensorFlow will automatically detect and use your
NVIDIA GPU if you have the correct CUDA libraries installed (we’ll
cover that in the next section). If you want to specify the version, you
can append it to the package name as
pip install tensorflow==2.18.0  
If you’re using Anaconda, Conda offers excellent package
management. First, make sure you’ve activated your environment
using
conda activate keras-env  
and then issue the command
conda install tensorflow  
A huge benefit of using Conda is that it can often handle CUDA and
cuDNN installation automatically, eliminating a significant source of
frustration.

--- Strana 335 ---
Testing Your TensorFlow Installation
After installation, it’s crucial to verify that everything works correctly.
Let’s run a quick test in Python. Create a new file test.py and paste
the code given in Listing 5.3. Run the file using python test.py. (See
the full listing for testing TensorFlow installations on the book
resources page at https://recluze.net/keras-book in the 05-01-
tensorflow-check notebook and on the book’s official web page at
http://rheinwerk-computing.com/6142.)
import tensorflow as tf
# Check the version
print("TensorFlow version:", tf.__version__)
# Check for GPU support
print("GPU devices:", tf.config.list_physical_devices('GPU'))
# Run a simple operation to verify functionality
x = tf.constant([[1., 2.]])
y = tf.constant([[3.], [4.]])
z = tf.matmul(x, y)
print("Result of matrix multiplication:", z.numpy())  
Listing 5.3     Checking TensorFlow Installation
If your installation is working correctly, you’ll see the TensorFlow
version, a list of available GPUs (empty list if you’re on CPU-only),
and the result [[11.]] from the matrix multiplication.

--- Strana 336 ---
[ ! ]  Common Installation Issues
You might encounter a few common issues during testing. An
ImportError typically indicates TensorFlow wasn’t installed
correctly. If no GPU appears in the device list despite having
compatible hardware, your CUDA installation likely needs
attention. A version mismatch means you should verify you’ve
installed the specific TensorFlow version you intended to use.
Now, your TensorFlow installation is ready! This powerful framework
will handle the complex computations needed for your deep learning
models, while Keras will provide a friendly interface for building and
training them. Let’s move on to enable CUDA support for our GPU.
5.2.3    Setting Up CUDA for GPU Acceleration
Deep learning models involve complex mathematical operations
performed on large datasets. When training neural networks, your
system needs to compute millions or billions of matrix multiplications
and other operations. CPUs are designed for general-purpose
computing and process tasks sequentially, which creates a
significant bottleneck for these intensive calculations.
GPUs, on the other hand, excel at parallel processing. They contain
thousands of smaller cores that can handle multiple computations
simultaneously. This parallel architecture makes GPUs dramatically
faster than CPUs for deep learning tasks, often providing speed

--- Strana 337 ---
improvements of 10-50x depending on the model and dataset. The
acceleration provided by GPUs translates to numerous benefits.
GPU acceleration enables faster model training times, reducing days
of computation to hours or even minutes. It provides the ability to
work with larger and more complex models that would be impractical
on CPUs alone. Researchers and developers can perform more
iterations for hyperparameter tuning and experimentation, greatly
improving model quality. Additionally, GPU acceleration allows for
quicker deployment and inference in production environments,
enhancing real-world applications.
Let’s go through the details of what you need to enable GPU
acceleration for your Keras projects in the following sections.
Checking GPU Compatibility
Before proceeding with CUDA installation, verify that your GPU is
compatible:
1. Identify your NVIDIA GPU model using the command nvidia-
smi, or on Windows, check Device Manager under Display
adapters.
2. Visit the NVIDIA CUDA-enabled GPU list
(https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-gpus) to confirm
compatibility.
3. For deep learning, ensure your GPU has at least 4 GB VRAM (8
GB or more is recommended for larger models).

--- Strana 338 ---
4. Check memory bandwidth and CUDA compute capability, as
these factors affect performance.
[ ! ]  AMD GPUs
AMD GPUs use a different framework called ROCm, not CUDA. In
this chapter, we focus exclusively on NVIDIA GPUs as they are by
far the most well-supported cards. Working with AMD GPUs isn’t
recommended, at least for beginners.
The CUDA Ecosystem Components
Understanding how each component fits within the GPU acceleration
ecosystem helps troubleshoot potential issues:
NVIDIA drivers
The foundation of the stack, enabling communication between
your operating system and the GPU hardware. These provide the
basic functionality for all NVIDIA GPU operations.
CUDA Toolkit
A development environment that includes the CUDA Runtime,
which is the interface between your applications and the GPU;
NVIDIA CUDA Compiler (NVCC), which translates CUDA code to
binary code executables on GPUs; CUDA Libraries, which are
optimized functions for common operations (cuBLAS for linear
algebra, cuDNN for deep learning, etc.); and development tools
and debugging utilities.

--- Strana 339 ---
cuDNN (CUDA Deep Neural Network Library)
A specialized library built on top of CUDA that provides highly
optimized implementations of common deep learning operations
such as convolutions, pooling, normalization, and activation
functions. It’s specifically designed to accelerate deep learning
frameworks.
Deep learning frameworks (TensorFlow, PyTorch, etc.)
These high-level tools use cuDNN and CUDA under the hood to
accelerate operations on NVIDIA GPUs.
Each layer depends on the layer below it, creating a stack where
compatibility between versions is critical. So, let’s go ahead and
discuss all of them one by one.
Installing the NVIDIA Drivers
The NVIDIA drivers are the foundation for GPU acceleration. We’ll
discuss installation for both Linux and Windows next.
For Linux
If you’re on Linux, determine the latest driver version compatible with
your GPU using the command ubuntu-drivers devices, and then
install the recommended driver using
sudo apt install nvidia-driver-XXX  
Replace XXX with the recommended version number. If you’re using a
RedHat/Fedora flavor, you can use dnf instead. Reboot the system,

--- Strana 340 ---
and verify the installation using the command: nvidia-smi.
For Windows
Follow these steps for setting up the NVIDIA drivers for windows:
1. Visit the NVIDIA Driver Download page
(www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx).
2. Select your GPU model and operating system.
3. Download and run the installer.
4. Follow the installation wizard, and restart your computer.
5. Verify installation by right-clicking on your desktop and selecting
NVIDIA Control Panel.
Of course, modern Macs don’t support NVIDIA GPUs, so you can’t
use this on the Mac. Your code will still run, it just won’t be able to
take advantage of the GPUs.
Installing the CUDA Toolkit
First of all, you must make sure to select the right version for your
TensorFlow because it requires specific CUDA versions, so check
compatibility (as listed in Table 5.1) before installation.
TensorFlow Version CUDA Version cuDNN Version
TensorFlow 2.12.0
CUDA 11.8
cuDNN 8.6

--- Strana 341 ---
TensorFlow Version CUDA Version cuDNN Version
TensorFlow 2.11.0
CUDA 11.2
cuDNN 8.1
TensorFlow 2.10.0
CUDA 11.2
cuDNN 8.1
Table 5.1     TensorFlow/CUDA Compatibility
This is the correct mapping as of the writing of this book. You should
always verify the latest compatibility information in the TensorFlow
documentation. We’ll discuss installation for both Linux and Windows
next.
For Linux
Download the CUDA Toolkit installer from NVIDIA’s website by
searching for “nvidia developer cuda toolkit installer linux”. An
example link is
https://developer.download.nvidia.com/compute/cuda/11.8.0/local_in
stallers/cuda_11.8.0_520.61.05_linux.run. Download the installer,
make it executable, and run it using the following command:
chmod +x cuda_11.8.0_520.61.05_linux.run &&  sudo 
./cuda_11.8.0_520.61.05_linux.run  
Then, follow the installation prompts.

--- Strana 342 ---
For Windows
Download the CUDA Toolkit installer from NVIDIA’s website, run the
installer, and follow the installation guide. Select Custom
installation, and ensure that the driver option is unchecked if you’ve
already installed drivers.
Installing cuDNN
cuDNN is NVIDIA’s deep learning acceleration library that optimizes
common operations in neural networks. You need to first register for
an NVIDIA Developer account (required to download cuDNN). Then,
visit the cuDNN download page
(https://developer.nvidia.com/cudnn), and select the version
compatible with your CUDA installation. Finally, based on your
operating system, follow the instructions in the next sections for
installation.
For Linux
Setting up cuDNN in Linux is also straightforward. Follow these
steps to have everything working on a Linux machine:
1. Download the cuDNN tarball.
2. Extract it using tar -xzvf cudnn-XX-linux-x64-v8.X.X.XX.tgz.
3. Copy the files to your CUDA directory as given in Listing 5.4.
sudo cp cuda/include/cudnn*.h /usr/local/cuda/include
sudo cp cuda/lib64/libcudnn* /usr/local/cuda/lib64

--- Strana 343 ---
sudo chmod a+r /usr/local/cuda/include/cudnn*.h 
/usr/local/cuda/lib64/libcudnn*  
Listing 5.4     Copying the cuDNN Files to the Correct Locations
For Windows
In Windows, all we need to do is to copy the contents of the zip file to
the correct location as follows:
1. Extract the cuDNN zip file.
2. Copy the contents of the cuda folder to your CUDA installation
directory (typically, C:\Program Files\NVIDIA GPU Computing
Toolkit\CUDA\vxx.x\).
Verifying GPU Detection
After installation, verify that your deep learning framework can detect
and use the GPU using the code given in Listing 5.5.
import tensorflow as tf
import time
# Create some random data
x = tf.random.normal([5000, 5000])
# Test on CPU
with tf.device('/CPU:0'):
    start = time.time()
    tf.matmul(x, x)
    end = time.time()
    print(f"CPU Time: {end-start:.4f} seconds")

--- Strana 344 ---
# Test on GPU
if tf.config.list_physical_devices('GPU'):
    with tf.device('/GPU:0'):
        start = time.time()
        tf.matmul(x, x)
        end = time.time()
        print(f"GPU Time: {end-start:.4f} seconds")  
Listing 5.5     Verifying GPU Detection
The GPU calculation should be significantly faster if acceleration is
working correctly. This code creates a large 5,000×5,000 matrix
multiplication task, which is computationally intensive but perfect for
parallel processing. The time difference between CPU and GPU
execution provides clear evidence of GPU acceleration.
5.2.4    Installing Keras
Finally, we can go ahead and install Keras itself. To install the
standalone Keras package, you’ll use pip, Python’s package
manager that we installed earlier and just issue this command:
pip install keras  
This command fetches the latest stable version of Keras and installs
it in your Python environment. It’s clean, simple, and gives you the
freedom to configure it as you wish. If you’re working in a Jupyter
Notebook, you can also install Keras with the magic command:
!pip install keras  

--- Strana 345 ---
The standard installation doesn’t automatically install the backends,
giving you the freedom to choose which ones to add to your toolkit.
[ ! ]  Standalone Keras or TensorFlow Subpackage?
Keras was historically included as part of the TensorFlow package,
providing an integrated experience for TensorFlow users.
However, with Keras 3.0+, the official recommendation has shifted
toward installing Keras as an independent package. This
standalone installation enables Keras to function as a truly multi-
backend framework, supporting not only TensorFlow but also
PyTorch and JAX.
To truly unlock the cross-backend potential of Keras 3.0, you might
want to install multiple backends. This is like being multilingual—your
Keras code can now speak to different systems. While installing
multiple backends isn’t important when you’re just getting started
and it’s recommended that you just stick to TensorFlow when you’re
just exploring Keras, we include the complete commands to install
the other backends in Listing 5.6.
# Install PyTorch backend
pip install torch torchvision
# Install JAX backend
pip install jax jaxlib  
Listing 5.6     Installing Multiple Backends for Keras

--- Strana 346 ---
Having multiple backends installed gives you the freedom to
experiment and switch between them based on your project’s needs
or to compare performance across different platforms. Once you
have Keras and your chosen backends installed, you can specify
which one to use as your default translator. This configuration is like
setting your preferred language in a translation app. Keras 3.0
makes this straightforward with a simple API, as shown in Listing 5.7.
import keras
keras.config.backend = "tensorflow"  # Set TensorFlow as 
backend
# Alternatives: "pytorch", "jax"  
Listing 5.7     Setting Up the Default Keras Backend Framework
This code tells Keras which computational engine to use behind the
scenes. You can change this setting at any point in your script to
switch backends, although it’s best to set it early before creating any
models.
Whew, that was a lot of technical setup to digest! Remember, you
don’t need to configure Keras on your local machine right away. If
you find yourself getting stuck with driver versions or encountering
cryptic error messages, take a step back. Colab offers a fantastic
alternative where Keras, TensorFlow, and GPU support are already
configured and ready to use. This gives you a chance to focus on
learning the concepts and building models without wrestling with
installation hurdles. Once you’ve gotten comfortable with how the
ecosystem works and have built a few models, you can return to

--- Strana 347 ---
setting up your local environment with a better understanding of what
you’re trying to accomplish. Many experienced practitioners started
their journey this way, using cloud notebooks before creating their
own optimized setup.
5.2.5    Using a GPU in Google Collaboratory
As you know, installing Keras locally isn’t the only option for working
with deep learning. Colab provides a convenient alternative,
especially if you don’t have a high-performance GPU in your
personal computer. Colab gives you access to powerful GPUs that
significantly accelerate model training without any hardware
investment on your part. You don’t have to worry about complex
installation procedures or keeping your software up-to-date, as
Colab environments come preconfigured with the latest versions of
all necessary libraries. The paid version of Colab does have time
limitations; currently, it’s six hours per session before needing to
restart. However, this isn’t a major obstacle because you’ll learn how
to save your model weights and resume training across multiple
sessions.
To enable the use of a GPU in Colab:
1. Create a new Colab notebook or open up an existing one.
2. Click on Runtime in the menu bar, and then select Change
runtime type from the dropdown menu, as shown in Figure 5.2.

--- Strana 348 ---
3. In the popup dialog shown in Figure 5.3, select a GPU from the
Hardware accelerator options.
4. Click Save to apply the changes.
You might get a warning that your progress will be lost. That is
normal as Colab will set up a new environment for you from scratch
when you change the runtime.
Figure 5.2     Changing the Runtime Type in Colab
Currently, Colab provides access to T4 GPUs, though the specific
hardware may vary based on availability. You’ll also see an option for
Tensor Processing Units (TPUs) in the Hardware Accelerator
section. While these specialized chips can offer exceptional
performance, they’re not recommended for beginners as they have

--- Strana 349 ---
compatibility issues with some code. Consider exploring TPUs after
gaining more experience with deep learning.
With GPU acceleration enabled, you’re free to choose either your
local installation or Colab for the code discussed in this chapter—
both will work equally well.
Figure 5.3     Setting Colab to Use a GPU
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 350 ---
5.3    Building Your First Model
Let’s now dive into the nitty-gritty details of Keras and machine
learning code. For this, we need to understand the engine that
powers modern machine learning: NumPy. Think of NumPy as the
foundation upon which nearly all Python-based machine learning is
built. Machine learning fundamentally revolves around data
manipulation, mathematical operations, and optimization—lots of it.
When you’re training a neural network, you’re handling millions of
parameters, performing countless matrix multiplications, and
computing gradients across massive datasets. Trying to do this with
Python’s built-in data structures would be like trying to transport a
city’s worth of people using only bicycles—theoretically possible, but
impossibly slow.
5.3.1    Why NumPy Matters for Machine Learning
NumPy solves this problem by providing blazingly fast numerical
operations that are computed in optimized C code rather than
Python. It gives us the data structures and functions needed to work
efficiently with the mathematical backbone of machine learning. As
you build your first models, you’ll see how these NumPy operations
translate directly into the building blocks of neural networks. In the
following sections, we’ll discuss those aspects of NumPy that are

--- Strana 351 ---
most relevant to a proper understanding and to the code of machine
learning and Keras.
Arrays and Matrices as Fundamental Data Structures
Let’s start with the basics. In machine learning, data is king, and
NumPy arrays are how we represent that data efficiently. These
arrays store and operate on homogeneous data, making them
perfect for representing the vectors and matrices that form the
mathematical backbone of neural networks. See Listing 5.8 for
examples of how to represent vectors and matrices through NumPy.
import numpy as np
# Creating a simple array (vector)
weights = np.array([0.5, 0.3, 0.2])
print(weights)  # [0.5 0.3 0.2]
# Creating a 2D array (matrix)
input_data = np.array([[1.0, 2.5, 3.1], 
                       [0.8, 1.2, 2.7],
                       [3.2, 0.4, 1.8]])
print(input_data)
# Output 
# [[1.  2.5 3.1]
#  [0.8 1.2 2.7]
#  [3.2 0.4 1.8]]  
Listing 5.8     Data Representation in NumPy

--- Strana 352 ---
Consider how a single neural network layer processes information: It
takes a set of inputs (a vector), multiplies them by weights (another
vector or matrix), and produces an output (yet another vector).
Without efficient array operations, even a simple neural network
would grind to a halt.
[+]  Practice with NumPy
You really should run these code listings even if they appear
straightforward. For your ease, we’ve made these short listing
available as cells in the 05-02-numpy notebook on the book
resources page at https://recluze.net/keras-book as well as on the
book’s web page at http://rheinwerk-computing.com/6142.
Broadcasting for Efficient Operations
One of the most powerful yet initially perplexing features of NumPy is
broadcasting. In traditional programming, if you want to add a
number to each element in an array, you’d write a loop. In NumPy,
you simply add the number to the array, as shown in Listing 5.9,
even if the shapes aren’t correct in the strict mathematical sense.
# A matrix of input features for 3 examples with 4 features 
each
inputs = np.array([[2.0, 1.5, 3.1, 0.8],
                  [1.2, 3.2, 0.5, 2.8],
                  [0.9, 1.1, 4.2, 1.9]])
# Adding a bias term to each input example

--- Strana 353 ---
bias = np.array([0.5, -0.3, 0.1, 0.7])
# Broadcasting automatically aligns and adds bias to each row
adjusted_inputs = inputs + bias
print(adjusted_inputs)
# [[2.5 1.2 3.2 1.5]
#  [1.7 2.9 0.6 3.5]
#  [1.4 0.8 4.3 2.6]]  
Listing 5.9     Broadcasting Basics
NumPy follows specific rules when broadcasting arrays together:
1. If the arrays don’t have the same rank (number of dimensions),
prepend the shape of the lower-rank array with 1s until both
have the same length.
2. If the shape of the two arrays doesn’t match in any dimension,
expand the array with shape 1 in that dimension to match the
other shape.
3. If the sizes disagree in any dimension, and none are 1, an error
is raised.
For example, when adding our bias (shape (4,)) to our inputs
(shape (3, 4)), NumPy does the following:
1. Expands bias to shape (1, 4) (rule 1).
2. Repeats the bias row three times to reach shape (3, 4) (rule 2).
3. Performs the addition with identical shapes.

--- Strana 354 ---
This is very significant for neural networks. Broadcasting makes it
possible to perform operations between arrays of different shapes,
which happens constantly in neural network operations. For
example, when adding a bias vector to the output of a matrix
multiplication, broadcasting allows the bias to be correctly applied to
each result without tedious reshaping or loop constructions. Without
broadcasting, we would face significant issues both in code
complexity and computational efficiency. See Listing 5.10 as an
example of what we would need to do if broadcasting wasn’t there to
help us out.
# Without broadcasting, here's what we'd need to do to add 
# a bias vector
# Assume output_activations has shape 
# (batch_size, num_neurons) = (32, 10) and bias has shape 
# (num_neurons,) = (10,)
batch_size = 32
num_neurons = 10
output_activations = np.random.rand(batch_size, num_neurons)
bias = np.random.rand(num_neurons)
# Approach 1: Explicit looping (very slow in Python)
result_loop = np.zeros_like(output_activations)
for i in range(batch_size):
    for j in range(num_neurons):
        result_loop[i, j] = output_activations[i, j] + bias[j]
# Approach 2: Manual reshaping (better but verbose)
result_reshape = output_activations + 
                          bias.reshape(1, num_neurons)

--- Strana 355 ---
# Approach 3: NumPy broadcasting (concise and fast)
result_broadcast = output_activations + bias  
Listing 5.10     Manual, Slow Replacement for Broadcasting and Vectorization
The explicit looping approach has a time complexity of
O(batch_size × num_neurons) and becomes prohibitively slow for
large networks. Even the reshaping approach requires extra memory
allocations and cognitive overhead. In a neural network with millions
of parameters processing thousands of examples, these
inefficiencies would compound dramatically, making training
impossibly slow. Broadcasting eliminates these issues by handling
the shape alignment automatically and using optimized, vectorized
operations under the hood.
Vectorization: The Secret to Performance
In machine learning, the difference between waiting minutes versus
days for results often comes down to one concept: vectorization. If
you want to compute the squared error across thousands of
predictions, you could write a loop, but that would be painfully slow.
Let’s demonstrate this using code given in Listing 5.11.
# The slow, looping way to compute error
def compute_error_slow(predictions, actual):
    error = 0
    for i in range(len(predictions)):
        error += (predictions[i] - actual[i]) ** 2
    return error

--- Strana 356 ---
# The vectorized, lightning-fast way
def compute_error_fast(predictions, actual):
    return np.sum((predictions - actual) ** 2)
# With large datasets, the speed difference can be 100x or more  
Listing 5.11     Vectorized vs Non-Vectorized Code
Why exactly is the looping approach so slow while vectorization is so
fast? The reasons depend a lot on how modern computing hardware
works. When the code is run on a CPU, the following occurs:
Python loops have significant overhead for each iteration, as the
interpreter must execute each step individually.
Vectorized operations are implemented in highly optimized C or
Fortran code that minimizes this overhead.
CPU hardware includes Single Instruction, Multiple Data (SIMD)
capabilities that can perform the same operation on multiple data
points simultaneously.
Vectorized NumPy functions automatically leverage these SIMD
instructions
Memory access is also optimized in vectorized code, following
continuous memory patterns that maximize CPU cache efficiency
When code optimized for a GPU is run, the following happens:
The performance gap becomes even more dramatic.

--- Strana 357 ---
GPUs are designed specifically for parallel processing, with
thousands of cores meant to perform the same operation across
different data points.
A loop processes one element at a time, leaving most of the
GPU’s processing power idle.
Vectorized operations can distribute work across all available
cores, utilizing the GPU’s full potential.
GPUs can achieve 10–100 times speedups over CPUs for certain
vectorized operations.
Deep learning frameworks translate vectorized NumPy-like
operations into optimized GPU instructions.
The reason vectorization is so crucial for machine learning is that
neural networks process enormous amounts of data, and every
training iteration requires multiple passes through the network.
Vectorized operations harness the power of highly optimized,
parallelized code under the hood. Without vectorization, deep
learning as we know it would be impractical on standard hardware.
This is one of the reasons why neural networks are able to achieve
modern feats when a model as clever as Support Vector Machine
(SVM) could not. The primary reason is that SVM simply couldn’t be
parallelized.

--- Strana 358 ---
Linear Algebra: The Language of Neural Networks
If data is the fuel of machine learning, linear algebra is the engine. At
the heart of any neural network lies the dot product —the operation
that computes the weighted sum of inputs and weights, as shown in
Listing 5.12.
# Inputs for a single example
x = np.array([2.0, 0.5, 3.0, 1.0])
# Weights for a neuron
w = np.array([0.1, 0.4, -0.2, 0.3])
# Computing the weighted sum (dot product)
weighted_sum = np.dot(x, w)
# Output might be around 0.25
print(f"Weighted sum: {weighted_sum}")  
# For matrix operations, dot products become 
#     matrix multiplication
# Inputs for a batch of 3 examples
X_batch = np.array([[2.0, 0.5, 3.0, 1.0],
                    [1.0, 1.0, 2.0, 2.0],
                    [0.5, 3.0, 1.0, 0.0]])
# Weights matrix for a layer with 2 neurons
W = np.array([[0.1, 0.4, -0.2, 0.3],
              [0.2, 0.1, 0.3, -0.1]])
# Computing activations for all examples at once
# Transpose W to match dimensions
activations = np.dot(X_batch, W.T)  

--- Strana 359 ---
print(activations)
# Weighted sum: 0.09999999999999998
# [[0.1  1.25]
#  [0.7  0.7 ]
#  [1.05 0.7 ]]  
Listing 5.12     The Dot Operation in NumPy
This operation directly implements the core feed-forward
computation we studied in Chapter 4. Recall that in a neural network,
each neuron computes the following:
The dot product efficiently implements the summation term
, where x1 through x4 are the input features,
and w1 through w4 are the corresponding weights for that neuron.
This weighted sum z is then passed through an activation function to
produce the neuron’s output.
When we scale to an entire layer of neurons, each with its own set of
weights, matrix multiplication allows us to compute all neurons’
outputs simultaneously. For a layer with n neurons receiving m-
dimensional input, we have
where
X is a (batchsize × m) matrix containing input features for multiple
examples.

--- Strana 360 ---
W is an (n × m) matrix where each row contains the weights for
one neuron.
Z is the resulting matrix of weighted sums for each example and
neuron.
This matrix operation simultaneously computes the weighted sum for
every neuron in the layer across every example in the batch–a
calculation that would require multiple nested loops if done
sequentially. Let’s see what this would look like with explicit loops, as
shown in Listing 5.13, versus the matrix multiplication approach, as
given in Listing 5.14.
# Input data: 3 examples, each with 4 features
X = np.array([
    [1.0, 0.5, 0.8, 0.2],  # Example 1
    [0.7, 0.3, 0.9, 0.5],  # Example 2
    [0.2, 0.8, 0.6, 0.1]   # Example 3
])
# Weight matrix: 2 neurons, each with 4 weights 
#         (one per input feature)
W = np.array([
    [0.1, 0.2, -0.1, 0.3],  # Weights for neuron 1
    [0.2, 0.1, 0.3, -0.2]   # Weights for neuron 2
])
# Bias vector: 1 bias per neuron
b = np.array([0.1, -0.1])
# APPROACH 1: Using nested loops (slow and verbose)
Z_loops = np.zeros((X.shape[0], W.shape[0]))  

--- Strana 361 ---
# Initialize output matrix (3 examples, 2 neurons)
for i in range(X.shape[0]):  # For each example
    for j in range(W.shape[0]):  # For each neuron
        Z_loops[i, j] = 0
        for k in range(X.shape[1]):  # For each feature
            Z_loops[i, j] += X[i, k] * W[j, k]
        Z_loops[i, j] += b[j]  # Add bias  
Listing 5.13     Approach 1: Forward Pass for a Dense Layer with Three Examples, Four
Input Features, and Two Output Neurons
The matrix multiplication version accomplishes in just one line what it
takes three nested loops to do in the explicit version. Under the
hood, NumPy’s matmul function (or the @ operator) implements highly
optimized Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms (BLAS) operations that
maximize CPU cache utilization and, when available, use parallel
processing.
# APPROACH 2: Using matrix multiplication (fast and concise)
Z_matmul = np.matmul(X, W.T) + b
# Equivalently using the @ operator (Python 3.5+)
Z_matmul_alt = X @ W.T + b
print("Results match:", np.allclose(Z_loops, Z_matmul))  
# Should print: True  
Listing 5.14     Approach 2: Forward Pass for a Dense Layer with Three Examples, Four
Input Features, and Two Output Neurons
After computing Z, we simply add the bias vector and apply the
activation function to complete the layer’s forward pass. Every

--- Strana 362 ---
forward pass through a neural network involves these matrix
multiplications. The dot product efficiently computes how strongly
each input affects each neuron’s output, forming the basis of
information flow in neural networks.
Random Number Generation: The Starting Point for Learning
Neural networks learn by gradually adjusting their weights from initial
values. But what should those initial values be? This is where
NumPy’s random number generators come into play. Let’s take a
look at an example in Listing 5.15.
# Creating weights with small random values from 
# a normal distribution
# For a layer with 5 inputs and 3 outputs
weights = np.random.normal(0, 0.1, (5, 3))  
# mean=0, std=0.1, shape=(5,3)
print(weights)
# [[ 0.08  -0.03   0.12]
#  [-0.02   0.15  -0.07]
#  [ 0.01  -0.09   0.05]
#  [ 0.11   0.04  -0.06]
#  [-0.14   0.02   0.10]]
# Creating bias terms initialized to zero
biases = np.zeros(3)
print(biases)  # [0. 0. 0.]  
Listing 5.15     Creating Random Values

--- Strana 363 ---
Starting with all 0s would cause all neurons to learn the same
features, effectively reducing the capacity of your network. Random
initialization breaks the symmetry and allows different neurons to
learn different patterns. The right initialization can also help prevent
problems such as vanishing or exploding gradients during training.
There is an entire area of research in machine learning that deals
with optimized randomizers. For now, we’ll leave it as an exercise for
you to go and explore the initializers. One good starting point might
be to study the Glorot initialization.
Reshaping and Transformation: Aligning Data for Processing
Shapes are notorious for causing headaches in practitioners just
starting with large-scale neural networks. The reason is that neural
networks are extremely picky about data shapes. An image might
start as a 2D array of pixels but needs to be flattened for a dense
layer. Output predictions often need reshaping to match the format of
target values. NumPy’s reshaping operations make these
transformations seamless. Let’s take a look at an example in
Listing 5.16 of how the same data can be represented using different
shapes depending on which part of the network is consuming it.
# MNIST image data might be 28x28 pixels
digit_image = np.random.rand(28, 28)  # Simulated image data
# A dense neural network layer expects a flat vector
flattened_input = digit_image.reshape(1, 784)  
# Shape becomes (1, 784)
print(f"Original shape: {digit_image.shape}, \

--- Strana 364 ---
          Flattened shape: {flattened_input.shape}")
# After processing, predictions might need reshaping
predictions = np.random.rand(10, 1)  # Raw predictions 
reshaped_preds = predictions.reshape(-1)  # Shape <- (10,)
print(f"Original preds shape: {predictions.shape}, \
                       Reshaped: {reshaped_preds.shape}")  
Listing 5.16     Different Shapes for the Same Data
Make sure to run these code snippets to get a thorough
understanding of the concepts. These examples show vectors,
matrices, and tensors. Before we go further, let’s clarify what a
tensor is. In machine learning, a tensor is simply a multidimensional
array of values—a generalization of vectors and matrices to higher
dimensions. NumPy arrays are the Python implementation of
tensors. Let’s take a look at Listing 5.17 to see how we can
generalize the concepts of vectors and matrices to even higher
dimensions. These (and even higher dimensions) are very common
in neural networks. While the core concepts are simple, it takes a bit
of time to fully internalize them.
# 0D tensor (scalar) - a single number
scalar_tensor = np.array(42)
print(f"Scalar tensor shape: {scalar_tensor.shape}, Rank: 0")  
# Shape: (), Rank: 0
# 1D tensor (vector) - a list of numbers
vector_tensor = np.array([1, 2, 3, 4])
print(f"Vector tensor shape: {vector_tensor.shape}, Rank: 1")  
# Shape: (4,), Rank: 1

--- Strana 365 ---
# 2D tensor (matrix) - a table of numbers
matrix_tensor = np.array([[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6]])
print(f"Matrix tensor shape: {matrix_tensor.shape}, Rank: 2")  
# Shape: (2, 3), Rank: 2
# 3D tensor - a cube or stack of matrices
# Often used for sequence data or a batch of images (grayscale)
cube_tensor = np.array([
    [[1, 2], [3, 4]],
    [[5, 6], [7, 8]]
])
print(f"3D tensor shape: {cube_tensor.shape}, Rank: 3")  
# Shape: (2, 2, 2), Rank: 3
# 4D tensor - a batch of 3D data
# Often used for a batch of color images: 
#   (batch_size, height, width, channels)
batch_images = np.zeros((32, 224, 224, 3))  
# 32 RGB images of 224x224 pixels
print(f"4D tensor shape: {batch_images.shape}, Rank: 4")  
# Shape: (32, 224, 224, 3), Rank: 4  
Listing 5.17     Tensors and Higher Dimensions
Different neural network layers expect tensors with specific shapes,
for example:
Dense (fully connected) layers expect 2D tensors: (batch_size,
features).
Convolutional layers expect 4D tensors: (batch_size, height,
width, channels).

--- Strana 366 ---
Recurrent layers expect 3D tensors: (batch_size,
sequence_length, features).
Understanding shapes (and reshaping) is absolutely critical for
machine learning. This seemingly simple operation solves a
fundamental challenge in deep learning: different parts of a neural
network architecture expect data in different shapes, yet the
underlying data must flow seamlessly between them.
Consider a complete image classification pipeline:
1. Your input images are 2D arrays of pixels (or 3D with color
channels).
2. Convolutional layers, which we’ll study later, process this spatial
data directly in its multidimensional form.
3. After extracting features, the network often needs fully
connected layers that only accept flattened 1D vectors.
4. The output needs to be shaped correctly for your loss function
(e.g., a specific shape for categorical cross-entropy).
Without reshaping, these components couldn’t communicate with
each other—each piece of your neural network would remain
isolated. It’s like having brilliant specialists who all speak different
languages; reshaping acts as the translator that allows them to
collaborate effectively.
Reshaping is also critical for batched operations, the backbone of
efficient neural network training. When preparing mini-batches, we
reshape individual examples into batched tensors, allowing the

--- Strana 367 ---
network to process multiple examples simultaneously rather than
one at a time.
Without reshaping, we would need to rewrite entire algorithms to
handle different tensor shapes or create custom layers for each
shape transition—a maintenance nightmare and performance
bottleneck. Reshaping allows us to adapt our data to our algorithms
rather than the reverse, making neural networks both more flexible
and more efficient.
Axis-Based Operations: Processing Along Dimensions
Neural networks often need to perform operations along specific
dimensions of data, especially when dealing with batched inputs or
multidimensional features. NumPy’s axis parameter provides precise
control over these operations. Let’s discuss this with the example
given in Listing 5.18.
# Batch of 4 examples, each with 5 features
batch_data = np.array([
    [1.2, 3.4, 0.5, 2.3, 1.1],
    [2.7, 1.8, 3.2, 0.8, 2.5],
    [0.3, 2.9, 1.7, 2.2, 3.1],
    [1.9, 0.7, 2.8, 3.3, 0.6]
])
# Normalizing each feature (column) across the batch
feature_means = np.mean(batch_data, axis=0)  
# Mean of each column
feature_stds = np.std(batch_data, axis=0)    
# Std dev of each column

--- Strana 368 ---
normalized = (batch_data - feature_means) / feature_stds
print("Feature means:", feature_means)
# Feature means: [1.525 2.2   2.05  2.15  1.825]
# Computing sum of each example (row)
example_sums = np.sum(batch_data, axis=1)
print("Example sums:", example_sums)
# Example sums: [ 8.5 11.  10.2  9.3]  
Listing 5.18     Axis-Based Operations
Let’s break down what’s happening with these axis operations line
by line:
1. First, we create batch_data, a 2D array with shape (4, 5)
representing 4 examples, each with 5 features.
2. When we call np.mean(batch_data, axis=0), the axis value tells
NumPy to compute the mean along the first axis (rows). For
each column position, it averages all values in that position
across all rows. The result is a 1D array of length 5, containing
the mean of each feature across all examples. This is exactly
what we need for feature normalization in a neural network.
3. Similarly, np.std(batch_data, axis=0), computes the standard
deviation of each feature across examples. It returns another 1D
array of length 5. These standard deviations tell us how much
each feature varies in our dataset, which is critical for proper
normalization.
4. The broadcasting in (batch_data - feature_means) /
feature_stds, subtracts the appropriate mean from each feature

--- Strana 369 ---
value and divides by the appropriate standard deviation. NumPy
automatically applies these operations to every element in our
batch through broadcasting. This results in a normalized dataset
where each feature has mean 0 and standard deviation 1, which
helps neural networks train more efficiently.
5. When we call np.sum(batch_data, axis=1), the axis value tells
NumPy to sum along the second axis (columns). For each row, it
adds up all the values across columns. This returns a 1D array
of length 4, containing the sum of features for each example.
This operation is similar to what happens when a neural network
layer combines all of its inputs into a single activation value.
In batch processing, you frequently need to normalize data across
examples (axis 0) or compute losses for individual examples (axis
1). Mastering axis-based operations allows you to efficiently
manipulate multidimensional data without resorting to complex loops.
For neural networks specifically, axis operations are used in the
following:
Batch normalization
Normalizing activations across the batch.
Loss computation
Averaging losses across examples.
Softmax calculations
Applying softmax to each example independently.

--- Strana 370 ---
Pooling operations
Reducing dimensions along spatial axes.
Attention mechanisms
Computing weights along sequence dimensions.
With these NumPy fundamentals as our foundation, we’re now ready
to explore how symbolic computing builds upon them to create the
powerful, flexible deep learning frameworks that make modern AI
possible. Don’t think of these NumPy operations as abstract
concepts. They’re the operations happening under the hood when
you build and train neural networks with Keras. Understanding them
gives you both the practical skills to manipulate data and the
conceptual understanding to grasp how neural networks actually
work.
5.3.2    Symbolic Computation: The Magic Behind Neural
Networks
When most of us think about computing, we think about calculations
with specific numbers (2 + 2 = 4) or perhaps solving more complex
equations like determining the trajectory of a spacecraft. This is
numerical computation—working directly with concrete values to get
specific answers.
Symbolic computation takes a fundamentally different approach.
Instead of immediately plugging in numbers, we keep the variables
as symbols and manipulate the mathematical expressions

--- Strana 371 ---
themselves. It’s like having a mathematical advisor who understands
the deeper structure of equations rather than just calculating results.
In traditional programming, a variable such as x is a container that
holds a specific value. Once you assign x = 5, the computer “forgets”
about the variable name and just works with the number 5. In
symbolic computation, however, x remains a symbol throughout the
calculation—a placeholder representing any possible value. We
maintain the entire analytical structure of the expression and can
perform operations on it as a whole. Let’s take a look at this with a
concrete example: the expression 
.
In traditional programming, we might create a function that will
compute the value of this expression and return that value. This
works fine for most values of x. We know that calculate(2) outputs
3.0 and calculate(5) outputs 6.0, but what happens when we try x =
1? We get an error of division by zero! Our function breaks down
completely! At x = 1, we end up trying to calculate 0/0, which is
mathematically undefined. The computer can’t give us a meaningful
answer.
With symbolic computation, we take a different path. Instead of
immediately calculating with specific values, we manipulate the
expression 
 and recognize that 
 can be
factored as 
. Now, we can simplify by canceling the
common factor 
 and get the final expression as 
.
Through symbolic manipulation, we’ve discovered that our complex-
looking expression is actually equivalent to the much simpler x + 1

--- Strana 372 ---
for all values of x where the original expression is defined. It’s not
really differentiable at that point, but it’s infinitely close to the point,
and the function behaves fine.
This symbolic simplification reveals something profound. While our
original expression 
 has a hole at x = 1 (a
removable discontinuity in mathematical terms), the simplified form
x + 1 shows us exactly what value the function should have at that
point. Even though we technically can’t evaluate the original function
at precisely x = 1, symbolic computation reveals that the limit as x
approaches 1 is exactly 2. We can write this formally as the
following:
This is X-ray vision that lets us see through the mathematical fog.
When numerical computation hits a wall, symbolic computation can
often find a way through by revealing the underlying structure of the
formula. The formula itself is the primary object, not the numerical
result. Only when we need a specific answer do we substitute values
into our symbolic expression. Based on this basic rule, here are
some key differences between numerical and symbolic computation:
Abstraction level
Symbolic computation works with abstract mathematical entities
(variables, functions, operations), while numerical computation
works with concrete values.

--- Strana 373 ---
Derivatives
Symbolic computation can provide exact derivatives through
mathematical rules, while numerical computation typically
approximates derivatives using finite differences. This part is of
high significance to us because, as you know, we need to
compute gradients for our gradient descent algorithm. As our
computations get more and more complex, the utility of symbolic
computation increases exponentially.
Expression optimization
Symbolic systems can analyze and optimize expressions (e.g.,
simplifying x × 1 to x) before computation, potentially improving
efficiency.
Memory vs. computation
Symbolic computation often requires more up-front memory to
store the computational structure but can be more efficient when
repeatedly evaluated with different inputs.
Error propagation
Numerical computation accumulates rounding errors at each step,
while symbolic computation postpones such errors until the final
evaluation.
Let’s take a look at a more code-oriented example of symbolic
computing. Think of a straight line—the simplest relationship in
mathematics. This line is described by the equation 
.
Let’s build this relationship using TensorFlow’s symbolic approach,
as shown in Listing 5.19. (Complete code listings for this section are

--- Strana 374 ---
available on the book’s web page as well as on
https://recluze.net/keras-book in the 05-03-symbolic-computation
notebook.)
import tensorflow as tf
# Define our coefficients
a = tf.constant(2.0)  # Our slope
b = tf.constant(3.0)  # Our y-intercept
# Create a variable that we'll use as our input
x = tf.Variable(0.0)  
# Define our linear function
def compute_linear_function(input_x):
    return a * input_x + b  
Listing 5.19     Symbolic Computation Example Using TensorFlow
What we’ve done here is create the mathematical framework, but we
haven’t actually computed anything yet. We’ll explain the code to
help you fully understand its strength. In TensorFlow, we work with
two primary types of values: constants and variables. Constants are
fixed values that remain unchanged throughout our computations,
such as predefined coefficients or fixed parameters in our model.
Variables, in contrast, are values that can be modified during
computation, making them essential for scenarios where values
need updating, such as model weights during training.
The true strength of TensorFlow emerges after we set up these basic
components. We can write computations using regular Python

--- Strana 375 ---
syntax just as we’ve done in a function in the listing. It doesn’t matter
if we’re performing basic arithmetic or complex matrix operations.
Behind the scenes, TensorFlow constructs a computation graph that
maps out how our operations connect. This graph enables
TensorFlow to track and optimize our calculations efficiently. This
combination of straightforward Python syntax and TensorFlow’s
computation graph system gives us the best of both worlds. We can
write complex calculations naturally while leveraging TensorFlow’s
powerful optimization capabilities. After defining our variables and
constants, we’re free to implement any level of computational
complexity our model requires, with TensorFlow handling the graph
creation and evaluation automatically. Then, we can actually execute
the graph by assigning values to the variables. Listing 5.20 shows an
example of this in action.
# Let's set x to a specific value
x.assign(5.0)
# Compute y = ax + b
y = compute_linear_function(x)
print(f"When x = {x.numpy()}:")
print(f"y = {y.numpy()}")  # Will output 13.0 (2*5 + 3)  
Listing 5.20     Executing the Computation Graph
When we run this code, TensorFlow follows our blueprint and
calculates that when x is 5, y equals 13. It’s like finally driving along
that route we planned, and arriving exactly where we expected. Not
only that, we can now go ahead and perform actions that would

--- Strana 376 ---
simply be impossible with numeric computation. For instance, we
can calculate the derivatives of our operations automatically. Let’s
see how we can do this in Listing 5.21.
# To compute derivatives, we use TensorFlow's GradientTape
with tf.GradientTape() as tape:
    # We need to tell the tape to watch our variable
    tape.watch(x)
    # Compute y = ax + b
    y = compute_linear_function(x)
# Now we can compute the derivative dy/dx
dy_dx = tape.gradient(y, x)
print(f"dy/dx = {dy_dx.numpy()}")  
# Will output 2.0 (derivative of 2x + 3 is 2)  
Listing 5.21     Automatically Calculating Gradients from Computation Graph
The GradientTape implements what’s known as automatic
differentiation, which is fundamentally different from numerical
approximations or symbolic differentiation. Here’s how it works:
Computational graph
When you perform operations inside a GradientTape context,
TensorFlow builds a computational graph that tracks every
operation (addition, multiplication, etc.) and how variables flow
through these operations.
Operation recording
Each mathematical operation has a corresponding derivative

--- Strana 377 ---
formula. For example, if 
, then 
. TensorFlow
records these operations and their known derivatives.
Reverse mode differentiation
When you call tape.gradient(y, x), TensorFlow uses reverse
mode differentiation, starting from the output (y) and working
backward to the input (x). This is particularly efficient when you
have many input variables and fewer output variables.
Chain rule application
TensorFlow automatically applies the chain rule of calculus, which
states that if 
, then 
. It
multiplies the local gradients along the computational path from y
to x.
Gradient accumulation
If a variable appears multiple times in the computation (like in
complex neural networks), TensorFlow automatically accumulates
the gradients from different paths.
This capability is the secret sauce that makes neural networks
possible, as it efficiently computes gradients for models with millions
of parameters. This is because, as we’ve seen before in Chapter 2
and Chapter 3, neural networks are essentially complex
mathematical functions with thousands or millions of parameters. If
we were to calculate the derivatives ourselves, it would be extremely
time-consuming and difficult.

--- Strana 378 ---
[»]  Other Names for Automatic Differentiation
The concept of automatic gradient calculation through symbolic
computation isn’t unique to TensorFlow. Almost all modern
frameworks have this capability under different names. Some call
it AutoDiff, and some call it AutoGrad. The concept remains the
same—keep track of the operations and construct derivative using
the chain rule based on the sequence of operations.
When you use Keras to build neural networks, all of this symbolic
computation happens behind the scenes. You don’t need to manually
set up the GradientTape or calculate derivatives—Keras and
TensorFlow handle this for you. However, understanding this process
helps demystify what’s happening when your model learns from
data. So the next time you call model.fit() to train your neural
network, remember that under the hood, Keras is creating a complex
mathematical blueprint and automatically navigating the terrain of
derivatives to find the optimal path to a solution. So, with a deep
understanding of the underlying mechanisms, we can revisit the
Keras code once more with a more detailed example and fill in some
more blanks.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 379 ---
5.4    Implementing Core Concepts in Keras:
Gradient Descent and Classification
Now that we’ve explored the theoretical foundations of gradient
descent and classification, let’s bring these concepts to life with
Keras. In this section, we’ll build a complete image classification
system that distinguishes between cats and dogs. This practical
implementation will showcase how Keras elegantly handles the
complex mechanisms we’ve discussed in previous chapters.
5.4.1    The Building Blocks of a Cat-Dog Classifier
Our task begins with a simple question: Can a neural network learn
to tell cats and dogs apart? This seemingly straightforward task
actually encompasses many core machine learning concepts:
Data preparation and normalization
Model architecture design, including layers and neuron numbers
Training the machine through gradient descent
Evaluating the learning with classification metrics
Continuing our work through model saving and loading
Let’s explore each of these elements through a hands-on
implementation. The import section of our code is shown in
Listing 5.22. Each library brings special capabilities that will help us

--- Strana 380 ---
build our image classifier. We start by importing TensorFlow and
Keras. These form the foundation of our deep learning project.
TensorFlow provides the computational engine that powers our
neural network operations, while Keras offers a user-friendly
interface that makes building complex models surprisingly
straightforward. It should be noted that we’re using TensorFlow here
in two capacities—one as a backend engine that is called by Keras
and the second as a collection of utilities. This is typical of a machine
learning system, several components from distinct libraries are used
to collectively achieve what we want instead of relying on a single
library or rolling out our own function. The complete code listing for
this section is available on the book’s official web page as well as on
https://recluze.net/keras-book in the 05-04-cats-dogs notebook.
The imports from keras are the components we’ll use to construct
our neural network:
Sequential gives us a straightforward container for stacking layers
in order.
Flatten, Dense, and Dropout are layer types that transform our data
in different ways: Flatten converts our 2D image data into a
format our Dense layers can process, Dense layers create
connections between neurons where learning happens, and
Dropout randomly ignores some neurons during training,
preventing our model from memorizing the training data. We’ll get
to a detailed discussion of Dropout in the next chapter.

--- Strana 381 ---
Some of the other imports you see are important components that
we’ll discuss later in this chapter at appropriate times. Each of these
imports plays a vital role in the machine learning workflow we’re
about to build—from preparing data, to constructing and training our
model, to evaluating its performance and visualizing results.
import tensorflow as tf
import keras
from keras import Sequential
from keras.layers import Flatten, Dense, Dropout
from keras.utils import image_dataset_from_directory
from keras.callbacks import ModelCheckpoint
from keras.optimizers import Adam
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from sklearn.metrics import accuracy_score, precision_score
from sklearn.metrics import recall_score, f1_score
import os  
Listing 5.22     Imports for a Cats and Dogs Classifier
5.4.2    Getting and Fixing the Data
Of course, in order to perform machine learning, we’re going to need
some data. The get_file function call shown in Listing 5.23 reaches
out to Google’s storage repositories and retrieves a comprehensive
collection of cat and dog images. This is a carefully curated dataset
that researchers have already cleaned, organized, and split for
machine learning tasks. We usually want to start with one of these
instead of rolling out our own data.

--- Strana 382 ---
What makes this especially valuable is that the dataset comes pre-
divided into training and validation sets, saving us from the manual
work of splitting the data ourselves. If you recall from Chapter 3, this
separation is crucial—the training set teaches our model, while the
validation set tests whether it has truly learned or merely memorized.
# Download and extract the dataset
url = 'https://storage.googleapis.com/mledu-datasets/
              cats_and_dogs_filtered.zip'
data_dir = keras.utils.get_file('cats_and_dogs.zip', 
                                 cache_dir=".",
                                  origin=url, 
                                  extract=True)
print(data_dir)
base_dir = os.path.join(data_dir, 'cats_and_dogs_filtered')
# Define directories
train_dir = os.path.join(base_dir, 'train')
validation_dir = os.path.join(base_dir, 'validation')  
Listing 5.23     Getting the Dataset
When working with thousands of images, managing how they flow
into our neural network becomes crucial. This is where Keras steps
in as our data handler, elegantly handling the complex task of
moving images from storage to our model during training. First, we
define some basic parameters for our images in Listing 5.24. By
setting img_width and img_height to 150 pixels, we’re establishing a
consistent canvas size for all of our cat and dog pictures. Think of
this as standardizing the photo size so our neural network doesn’t
get confused by varying dimensions. Meanwhile, the batch_size of

--- Strana 383 ---
32 determines how many images our model will process at once—
like deciding how many flashcards to review in a single study
session. The real heavy lifting of this code segment is the
image_dataset_from_directory function. This powerful utility
transforms a simple folder of images into a sophisticated, ready-to-
train dataset with just a single function call. Behind the scenes,
Keras is performing several critical tasks:
Automatic labeling
Keras reads the directory structure to determine which images are
cats and which are dogs.
Resizing
Every image is automatically resized to our specified dimensions
(150×150 pixels).
Batching
Images are grouped into batches of 32, optimizing memory usage
and training speed.
Binary labels
The label_mode='binary' parameter tells Keras we’re working with
a two-class problem (cats vs. dogs), so it generates appropriate
binary labels.
Reproducibility
By setting a seed value, we ensure that if we run our code multiple
times, the data will be shuffled in exactly the same way.

--- Strana 384 ---
What makes this particularly impressive is how much complexity
Keras is hiding from us. Without this function, we would need dozens
of lines of code to load images, resize them, convert them to arrays,
create label vectors, batch them appropriately, and ensure they’re in
the right format for training.
Consider having to manually sort thousands of documents for a
research project versus having an intelligent assistant who
automatically organizes everything perfectly. That’s what Keras is
doing for us here—transforming a potentially tedious data
preparation task into a single line of elegant code.
With our data now flowing smoothly through this digital conveyor
belt, we’re ready to focus on the more creative aspects of our model
design.
# Image parameters
img_width, img_height = 150, 150
batch_size = 32
# Create datasets using Keras 3 API
train_dataset = image_dataset_from_directory(
    train_dir,
    image_size=(img_width, img_height),
    batch_size=batch_size,
    label_mode='binary',
    seed=123
)  
Listing 5.24     Loading the Dataset Correctly with a Single Function Call

--- Strana 385 ---
Throughout this book, we’ve emphasized one crucial concept:
understanding the shape of our data as it flows through the neural
network. This is the secret language that helps us visualize how
information transforms as it moves through our model. Let’s take a
moment to inspect what our data actually looks like in this particular
example. With just a few lines of code given in Listing 5.25, we can
gain valuable insights into the structure of both our inputs and
outputs. Keep in mind that we’re only examining one batch before
breaking out of the loop. This gives us a quick snapshot without
processing the entire dataset.
When we run this code, we see Inputs: (32, 150, 150, 3). The first
dimension, 32, represents our batch size—we’re processing 32
images at once. Think of this as examining 32 photos spread out on
a table simultaneously. The next two dimensions, 150 and 150,
reveal the spatial resolution of each image—150 pixels wide by 150
pixels tall. This consistent size ensures our model receives uniform
inputs, regardless of the original photo dimensions. The final
dimension, 3, is particularly interesting. It represents the three color
channels in each image: red, green, and blue. Unlike our earlier work
with MNIST where we had grayscale images (just one channel of
intensity values), color images contain three separate layers of
information. Each pixel has three values that together create the full
spectrum of colors we see.
Meanwhile, our outputs have a shape of (32, 1), indicating 32 scalar
values, that is, one classification result for each image in the batch.

--- Strana 386 ---
These values will be between 0 and 1, representing the probability of
an image being a dog.
# Iterate over the dataset
for inputs, outputs in train_dataset:
    print("Inputs:", inputs.numpy().shape)
    print("Outputs:", outputs.numpy().shape)
    break
# Output -------------------
# Inputs: (32, 150, 150, 3)
# Outputs: (32, 1)  
Listing 5.25     Understanding the Shape of the Data
After setting up our training dataset, we need to create a separate
validation dataset that will help us evaluate how well our model is
learning. In Chapter 3, we called this the training set. There is a little
ambiguity around these two terms—validation sets and test sets—
that we’ll get to in the next chapter. The split is shown in Listing 5.26.
Just like its training counterpart, we use the
image_dataset_from_directory function, keeping all parameters
consistent to ensure fair comparison. This validation set serves as
our model’s pop quiz—data it’s never seen during training but that
will test its real understanding. When we feed raw pixel values into
our neural network, we’re essentially asking it to work with numbers
ranging from 0 to 255. These large values can cause problems
during training and might lead to unstable gradients or slow
convergence.

--- Strana 387 ---
The solution is elegantly simple: We scale all pixel values down to a
range between 0 and 1. We accomplish this using Keras’s Rescaling
layer, dividing each pixel value by 255. This transformation doesn’t
change what the images look like to us, but it makes a world of
difference to our neural network. Mathematically, this means a bright
white pixel that was 255 becomes 1.0, while a pure black pixel at 0
remains 0. All the beautiful grays and colors in between now fall
somewhere on this standardized 0–1 scale. Notice how we apply this
normalization to both our training and validation sets using the map
method. This ensures consistency across all the data our model
encounters. The lambda function is a concise way to say “apply this
normalization to the image data (x) but leave the labels (y)
unchanged.”
With our data now properly scaled and organized, we’ve created the
ideal conditions for our neural network to learn efficiently. This
seemingly small step of normalization can dramatically improve both
the speed and quality of our model’s learning process.
validation_dataset = image_dataset_from_directory(
    validation_dir,
    image_size=(img_width, img_height),
    batch_size=batch_size,
    label_mode='binary',
    seed=123
)
# Normalize images to [0,1] range
normalization_layer = keras.layers.Rescaling(1./255)
train_dataset = train_dataset.map(

--- Strana 388 ---
    lambda x, y: (normalization_layer(x), y)
)
validation_dataset = validation_dataset.map(
    lambda x, y: (normalization_layer(x), y)
)  
Listing 5.26     Creating the Validation Set and Normalizations
5.4.3    Performance Optimization and Model
Specification
While we’ve focused on preparing our data correctly for learning,
there’s another critical aspect we shouldn’t overlook: performance
optimization. Deep learning is not only about accuracy but also about
efficiency. The lines of code we’re examining now might seem
simple, but they represent powerful acceleration techniques that can
dramatically speed up our training process. Let’s see how we
achieve this using Listing 5.27. First, we set AUTOTUNE =
tf.data.AUTOTUNE, which is TensorFlow’s way of saying, “I’ll
automatically figure out the optimal settings based on your available
resources.”
Then, we apply two powerful optimization techniques to both our
training and validation datasets:
Caching
When we call .cache(), we’re telling TensorFlow to keep our
dataset in memory after it’s loaded the first time. This saves the

--- Strana 389 ---
time and processing power that would otherwise be spent
repeatedly loading and preprocessing the same images from disk.
Prefetching
The .prefetch(AUTOTUNE) method is where things get really
interesting. While your GPU is busy training on the current batch
of images, TensorFlow is already preparing the next batch in the
background. It’s like a restaurant kitchen where chefs are
preparing your next course while you’re still enjoying your
appetizer—by the time you’re ready, the next dish is already
waiting. This technique prevents your GPU from sitting idle
between batches, ensuring it’s constantly fed with data.
Together, these optimizations create a smooth, efficient data pipeline
that can dramatically reduce training time—sometimes turning hours
of computation into minutes. What’s particularly elegant about these
methods is how they work invisibly in the background, automatically
adapting to your specific hardware configuration without requiring
complex manual tuning.
These performance boosters represent the difference between a
merely functional deep learning system and one that’s truly
optimized for real-world applications. By implementing these few
lines of code, we’re ensuring our model can train as quickly as
possible, allowing us to experiment, iterate, and refine our approach
with minimal waiting time. This step is essential when working with
large-scale models.

--- Strana 390 ---
# Enable performance optimizations
AUTOTUNE = tf.data.AUTOTUNE
train_dataset = train_dataset.cache().prefetch(AUTOTUNE)
val_dataset = validation_dataset.cache().prefetch(AUTOTUNE)  
Listing 5.27     Setting Optimization for Caching and Prefetching
Now comes the exciting part—designing our neural network’s
structure. Because we’ve already covered these concepts briefly in
Chapter 4, let’s focus here on how we’re applying them specifically
to our cat and dog classification problem in Listing 5.28. We’re
creating a sequential model—a straightforward stack of layers where
data flows from bottom to top. Our network begins with a Flatten
layer that transforms our 3D image data (
) into a 1D
array of numbers that our dense layers can process. Remember, the
Dense layer is just a collection of neurons arranged in a sequence, so
we can only feed it a 1D vector.
After flattening, we build a hierarchy of increasingly refined
understanding:
A first dense layer with 256 neurons captures basic patterns and
textures.
A second dense layer with 128 neurons builds more complex
combinations.
A third dense layer with 64 neurons distills these into higher-level
features.
A final single-neuron layer with sigmoid activation makes the
binary decision: dog (1) or cat (0).

--- Strana 391 ---
The Dropout layers you see interspersed between Dense layers act as
strategic noise-inducers. We’ll cover this in detail in the next chapter,
but for now, think of this layer as helping our model generalize better
to new images rather than memorizing the training set.
Then, we get to the compile step that sets up the learning process
itself. We’ve chosen the following:
binary_crossentropy loss is perfect for our yes/no classification
task.
Adam optimizer is an adaptive gradient descent method that
automatically fine-tunes learning rates.
accuracy metric is a straightforward way to track how often our
model is correct.
# Create model (dense layers only)
model = Sequential([
    Flatten(input_shape=(img_width, img_height, 3)),
    Dense(256, activation='relu'),
    Dropout(0.5),
    Dense(128, activation='relu'),
    Dropout(0.3),
    Dense(64, activation='relu'),
    Dense(1, activation='sigmoid')
])
# Compile model
model.compile(
    loss='binary_crossentropy',
    optimizer=Adam(learning_rate=0.0001),

--- Strana 392 ---
    metrics=['accuracy']
)  
Listing 5.28     Defining the Model Architecture
We’ve set a conservative learning rate of 0.0001 for Adam, helping our
model take smaller, more careful steps toward the optimal solution.
With this architecture in place, our neural network is ready to begin
its learning—transforming from a blank slate into a sophisticated
image classifier through the magic of gradient descent and
backpropagation.
But before we do that, we need to take a little bit of a detour to
explain the concept of accuracy metric just mentioned in a little more
detail and discuss the pitfalls associated with this simple concept of,
“are the answers correct?”
5.4.4    Evaluation Metrics
When our model has finished its training and starts making
predictions, how do we know if it’s any good? This is where
evaluation metrics come into play—they’re the report cards for our
neural network, telling us not just whether it’s right or wrong but how
it’s right or wrong. At the heart of classification evaluation is a
powerful concept: comparing what our model thought was true
against what was actually true.
The terminology here can be a bit confusing, so let’s make sure we
get it right. In binary classification, we say a prediction is positive

--- Strana 393 ---
when our model believes the target class is present. For example,
with our cat classifier, a positive prediction means “yes, this is a cat,”
while a negative prediction means “no, this isn’t a cat” (so it must be
a dog in our binary scenario). Every prediction our model makes falls
into one of four categories, which together form what’s often called a
confusion matrix (though there’s nothing confusing about it once you
understand it!), as shown in Table 5.2.
Predicted Positive Predicted Negative
Actual Positive
True positive
False negative
Actual Negative False positive
True negative
Table 5.2     Confusion Matrix
We’ll explain this in detail in the context of our cats and dogs
classifier:
True positive (TP)
Our model said, “that’s a cat,” and it really was a cat. The model
correctly identified the positive class. Like recognizing your
beloved feline in a photo—both accurate and certain.
True negative (TN)
Our model said, “that’s not a cat” (meaning it’s a dog), and indeed
it wasn’t a cat. The model correctly identified the negative class.
This is like correctly saying “that’s not a cat” when shown a photo
of a dog.

--- Strana 394 ---
False positive (FP)
Our model said, “that’s a cat,” but it was actually a dog. This is
called a Type I error or a false alarm. A very severe example of
this would be a tumor identification system telling someone very
healthy that they have a tumor—not life threatening but not
something ideal either.
False negative (FN)
Our model said, “that’s a dog,” but it was actually a cat. This is a
Type II error or a miss. This is like failing to recognize your own
cat in a photo because they’re partially hidden behind a curtain. In
some cases, false positives are more severe and in other, we
absolutely want to avoid false negatives at all costs.
Based on these, creating a confusion matrix is like sorting exam
answers into different piles. We take our test dataset—images our
model hasn’t seen during training—and run each one through our
classifier. For each prediction, we place it in one of four categories:
When our model says “cat,” and it really is a cat → True positive
pile
When our model says “not a cat,” and it’s not actually a cat →
True negative pile
When our model says “cat,” but it’s not a cat → False positive pile
When our model says “not a cat,” but it’s actually a cat → False
negative pile

--- Strana 395 ---
After we’ve processed every image in our test set, we count how
many predictions landed in each pile. These four numbers—our TP,
TN, FP, and FN counts—become the building blocks for all our
evaluation metrics.
The most intuitive question we can ask—“How often is our model
correct?”—is answered by the metric called accuracy:
In plain language, accuracy is the proportion of all predictions (both
positive and negative) that were correct. If our cat classifier correctly
identifies 90 out of 100 images, it has 90% accuracy. While accuracy
seems like the perfect measure, it can sometimes lead us astray.
Assume we’re building a model to detect a rare disease that affects
only 1 in 100 people. A model that simply says “no disease” for every
patient would achieve 99% accuracy—sounds impressive, right?
But wait! This model is essentially useless. It never identifies anyone
who actually has the disease, which was the whole point of creating
it in the first place. This model has high accuracy but completely fails
at its primary task. This is the accuracy paradox, and it’s particularly
problematic when dealing with imbalanced datasets—situations
where one outcome is much more common than the other. The
accuracy paradox shows us why relying solely on accuracy can be
misleading. In many real-world scenarios—from medical diagnostics
to fraud detection—we’re often more concerned with correctly
identifying the rare cases than with overall accuracy. This is why data

--- Strana 396 ---
scientists have developed more specialized metrics that can give us
a clearer picture of model performance, especially for imbalanced
datasets or applications where certain types of errors are more
costly than others.
Let’s discuss two of these metrics that give us a more nuanced view
of our model’s performance. These metrics—precision and recall—
are like different lenses through which we can examine our
classifier’s behavior, each revealing something unique about its
strengths and weaknesses.
Imagine you have a friend who only points out cats when they’re
absolutely certain. They might miss some cats, but when they do say
“that’s a cat,” you can almost always trust them. This friend has high
precision. Precision measures how trustworthy our positive
predictions are. In mathematical terms:
This formula tells us the following: “Out of all the times our model
predicted ’cat,’ how often was it actually correct?” A model with
perfect precision (1.0) never makes false positive mistakes—it might
not catch every cat, but when it says something is a cat, it’s always
right. Precision is sometimes called positive predictive value (PPV),
especially in medical contexts. It answers the critical question: “If my
test comes back positive, how likely is it that I truly have the
condition?”

--- Strana 397 ---
Now consider another hypothetical friend who never wants to miss a
single cat. They might occasionally mistake a small dog or a plush
toy for a cat, but they’ll spot nearly every actual cat they encounter.
This friend has a high recall.
Recall measures how comprehensive our model is at finding all
positive instances. Its formula is
This formula asks the following: “Out of all the actual cats in our
dataset, how many did our model successfully identify?” A model
with perfect recall (1.0) never makes false negative mistakes—it
finds every single cat, even if it occasionally misidentifies something
else as a cat along the way. Recall goes by several other names:
sensitivity, true positive rate, or hit rate. In medical diagnostics, high
recall is crucial for screening tests where missing a condition could
be life-threatening.
There is an issue though because precision and recall often exist in
tension with each other. Consider adjusting the “confidence
threshold” of our cat classifier: If we raise the threshold, demanding
the model be very confident before declaring “cat,” we’ll likely
increase precision (fewer false positives) but decrease recall (more
missed cats). If we lower the threshold, making the model more
willing to call something a cat, we’ll likely increase recall (fewer
missed cats) but decrease precision (more false positives).

--- Strana 398 ---
This trade-off makes it difficult to compare models using precision
and recall separately. If Model A has higher precision but lower recall
than Model B, which one is better? The answer depends entirely on
our specific needs, but if we need a single metric that balances
precision and recall, we use what is called the F1 score—the
harmonic mean of precision and recall:
The F1 score reaches its best value at 1.0 (perfect precision and
recall) and its worst at 0. Unlike a simple average, the harmonic
mean penalizes extreme imbalances—a model with 1.0 precision but
0.1 recall would get a much lower F1 score than a model with 0.8
precision and 0.7 recall. This balanced perspective makes an F1
score particularly valuable when we need good performance on both
metrics, neither sacrificing our ability to find all positive cases nor
compromising on the trustworthiness of our positive predictions.
[+]  Accuracy vs. F1 Score
One of the best ways to identify low-quality research is to look at
the metrics they report. For instance, if you see a research paper
that mentions achieving high accuracy for their model but doesn’t
mention if their classes were imbalanced or not, it means you
shouldn’t trust their results. They may have a good model on a
balanced dataset or a very poor model on a highly imbalanced

--- Strana 399 ---
dataset. The F1 score is a much better measure of overall balance
in a model.
By adding precision, recall, and F1 score to our evaluation toolkit, we
gain a much richer understanding of our model’s performance than
accuracy alone could ever provide. These metrics help us build
models that aren’t just accurate in a statistical sense but truly
effective at solving the specific problems we care about. With that
out of the way, let’s return to our example where we had compiled
our model and were about to begin training it. Listing 5.29 shows
how we can add different metrics during training to see how the
model is making progress.
# Compile model
model.compile(
    loss='binary_crossentropy',
    optimizer=Adam(learning_rate=0.0001),
    metrics=['accuracy', keras.metrics.Precision()]
)  
Listing 5.29     Adding Precision to the Reported Metrics
5.4.5    Guiding the Training Through Callbacks and
Checkpoints
Training a neural network isn’t simply about setting it in motion and
waiting for results. It’s an evolving process that benefits from careful
monitoring and timely interventions. This is where callbacks come

--- Strana 400 ---
into play. Callbacks are powerful tools that let us peek inside the
training process and take action at critical moments.
They are automatically called by the Keras internal mechanism at
specific points during training, such as after each batch of data or at
the end of each epoch. They give us a remarkable ability to interact
with a model while it’s learning, rather than just waiting until training
is complete. In the code given in Listing 5.30, we’ve created a list
called callbacks that we pass to the fit method. This tells Keras to
execute these functions at the appropriate times during training.
While we’re using just one callback here, we could include multiple
callbacks in this list to perform various actions simultaneously. The
one we’re focusing on in the following sections is the
ModelCheckpoint.
# Define callbacks
checkpoint_path = "model_weights.h5"
checkpoint = ModelCheckpoint(
    checkpoint_path,
    monitor='val_accuracy',
    save_best_only=True,
    mode='max',
    verbose=1
)
callbacks = [checkpoint]
# Train model
history = model.fit(
    train_dataset,
    epochs=25,

--- Strana 401 ---
    validation_data=validation_dataset,
    callbacks=callbacks
)  
Listing 5.30     Creating and Using a Callback
The ModelCheckpoint
The ModelCheckpoint callback is particularly valuable—it saves our
model’s weights at strategic points during training. In our
implementation, we’ve configured it to do the following:
Save weights to an HDF5 file (with the .h5 extension).
Monitor the validation accuracy metric.
Save only when the model achieves better validation accuracy
than previously seen.
Use max mode because we want higher accuracy values.
Display progress updates with verbose=1.
This approach ensures we capture the model at its best performance
point, not naively at the end of training. Sometimes, a model
performs better in the middle of training before it starts making
mistakes—our checkpoint callback catches this optimal state that we
can return to later even if our model parameters have diverged to
less than optimum values later. Storage of these large numbers of
values is enabled by the HDF5 format. Keep this point in mind about
the model going off track during training as it will be discussed in a
lot of detail in the next chapter.

--- Strana 402 ---
HDF5 Files: Preserving Your Model’s Knowledge
The HDF5 (Hierarchical Data Format version 5) file format is
specially designed to store large numerical datasets efficiently. When
we save our model weights to an .h5 file, we’re creating a compact
representation of all the knowledge our network has acquired
through training.
These files can be easily loaded later, allowing us to do the following:
Resume training from a previous state.
Deploy the model in production environments.
Share the trained model with colleagues.
Compare different versions of the same model.
Here, we’ve only scratched the surface of what callbacks can do. In
later chapters, we’ll explore additional callbacks that can do the
following:
Automatically stop training when performance plateaus
(EarlyStopping).
Dynamically adjust the learning rate (ReduceLROnPlateau).
Log training metrics for visualization (TensorBoard).
Create custom callbacks for specialized tasks.
Callbacks give us unprecedented control over the training process,
transforming neural network training from a black box into a
transparent, interactive experience where we can guide our model

--- Strana 403 ---
toward optimal performance. Once all of this is set, model.fit goes
ahead and performs our gradient descent algorithm that you’re all
too familiar with by now.
5.4.6    Evaluating the Model
After training our model, we need to measure how well it actually
performs on new, unseen data. This evaluation process is crucial—it
tells us whether our model has truly learned to recognize patterns or
has simply memorized the training examples.
The first step in our evaluation code given in Listing 5.31 is
particularly important: The model.load_weights(checkpoint_path)
command retrieves the weights that produced the best validation
accuracy during training. Remember that our ModelCheckpoint
callback saved these weights whenever the model improved. By
loading these specific weights, we ensure we’re evaluating the
model at its peak performance, not just its final state. This approach
acknowledges an important reality in neural network training: the
best-performing model often emerges somewhere in the middle of
the training process, not necessarily at the end.
# Restore best weights
model.load_weights(checkpoint_path)
# Evaluate and calculate metrics
y_true = []
y_pred = []
for images, labels in validation_dataset:

--- Strana 404 ---
    # Get predictions
    predictions = model.predict(images)
    pred_labels = (predictions > 0.5).flatten()
    # Extend lists
    y_true.extend(labels.numpy().flatten())
    y_pred.extend(pred_labels)  
Listing 5.31     Making Predictions and Collecting Results
Collecting True Labels and Predictions
Next, we set up empty lists (y_true and y_pred) to collect the ground
truth labels and our model’s predictions. We’ll need these complete
sets to calculate our evaluation metrics.
We then loop through our validation dataset batch by batch. For
each batch of images, we do the following:
1. Use model.predict() to generate probability scores for each
image. Because we used a sigmoid activation in our output
layer, these probabilities range from 0 to 1, indicating how
confident the model is that an image shows a cat.
2. Convert these probabilities to binary predictions using the
expression predictions > 0.5. This means any image with a
score above 0.5 is classified as a cat (1), while anything below is
classified as not a cat (0). The .flatten() method transforms
the result into a simple list.

--- Strana 405 ---
3. Add both the true labels and our predictions to their respective
lists using the extend() method, convert the true labels to
NumPy arrays with .numpy(), and flatten them to ensure they
match the format of our predictions.
By the end of this process, we have two aligned lists: y_true
containing the actual classifications of all our validation images and
y_pred containing our model’s predictions for those same images.
These lists form the foundation for all the evaluation metrics we’ll
calculate next—accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 score.
Now, we transform our raw predictions into meaningful performance
measures and preserve our trained model for future use. This simple
code is shown in Listing 5.32. The code employs scikit-learn’s
functions to calculate four essential metrics:
accuracy_score reveals the percentage of correct predictions
across all samples.
precision_score tells us how many of our cat predictions were
actually cats.
recall_score shows what fraction of actual cats our model found.
f1_score balances precision and recall in a single metric.
accuracy = accuracy_score(y_true, y_pred)
precision = precision_score(y_true, y_pred)
recall = recall_score(y_true, y_pred)
f1 = f1_score(y_true, y_pred)
print(f"Accuracy: {accuracy:.4f}")

--- Strana 406 ---
print(f"Precision: {precision:.4f}") 
print(f"Recall: {recall:.4f}")       
print(f"F1 Score: {f1:.4f}")        
# Save model for later use
model.save('cat_dog_classifier.h5')  
Listing 5.32     Reporting the Metrics and Saving the Model
Saving the Model and Weights for Later Use
The last line of this listing, that is, the model.save() function call,
captures our entire model in an HDF5 file, including architecture,
weights, compilation settings, and optimizer state. This complete
snapshot allows us to reload the model later with a single line of
code, ready for immediate use without rebuilding or retraining.
This saved model becomes a valuable asset we can deploy in
applications, share with colleagues, use for transfer learning, or
benchmark against future versions. With this final step, we’ve
completed the machine learning lifecycle—transforming raw data
into a quantifiably effective classification system.
Often, we want to see the progress our model has made during
training, how it reduced the loss, and how our metrics changed
during the process. We can do that using the code given in
Listing 5.33. This is just basic matplotlib code that gets the data to
plot from the history.history structure. We got this structure back
from model.fit() back in Listing 5.30.

--- Strana 407 ---
# Plot training history
plt.figure(figsize=(12, 4))
plt.subplot(1, 2, 1)
plt.plot(history.history['accuracy'])
plt.plot(history.history['val_accuracy'])
plt.title('Model Accuracy')
plt.ylabel('Accuracy')
plt.xlabel('Epoch')
plt.legend(['Train', 'Validation'], loc='upper left')
plt.subplot(1, 2, 2)
plt.plot(history.history['loss'])
plt.plot(history.history['val_loss'])
plt.title('Model Loss')
plt.ylabel('Loss')
plt.xlabel('Epoch')
plt.legend(['Train', 'Validation'], loc='upper left')
plt.tight_layout()
plt.show()  
Listing 5.33     Plotting the Losses and Other Metrics
Don’t worry if the actual values of our metrics look underwhelming
for now. We’re learning the intricacies of machine learning. Once
we’re through a couple of other models, you would be able to
achieve state-of-the-art results by changing just a couple of lines of
this code.
Finally, we can go ahead and load the model again. This will
presumably be done after some time has passed since our training
and we want to either resume our work or deploy the model to

--- Strana 408 ---
another machine. All we have to do is copy over the .h5 file and run
the code shown in Listing 5.34.
from keras.models import load_model
# Load the saved model
model = None # zeros out the whole model
model_new = load_model('cat_dog_classifier.h5')
model_new.load_weights('model_weights.h5')
# Evaluate and calculate metrics
y_true = []
y_pred = []
for images, labels in validation_dataset:
    predictions = model_new.predict(images)
    pred_labels = (predictions > 0.5).flatten()
    y_true.extend(labels.numpy().flatten())
    y_pred.extend(pred_labels)
accuracy = accuracy_score(y_true, y_pred)
precision = precision_score(y_true, y_pred)
recall = recall_score(y_true, y_pred)
f1 = f1_score(y_true, y_pred)
print(f"Accuracy: {accuracy:.4f}")
print(f"Precision: {precision:.4f}")
print(f"Recall: {recall:.4f}")
print(f"F1 Score: {f1:.4f}")  
Listing 5.34     Reloading a Saved Model

--- Strana 409 ---
We’ve now successfully completed an image classification system
using Keras, going from raw cat and dog images to a trained neural
network capable of distinguishing between these animals with
impressive accuracy. We started with data preparation—
downloading and organizing images, then normalizing and batching
them for efficient processing. We constructed a neural network using
Dense layers with strategic Dropout layers for regularization,
compiled it with appropriate loss and optimization settings, and
trained it while monitoring performance. Along the way, we
implemented callbacks to save our best model weights, evaluated
our model using sophisticated metrics beyond simple accuracy, and
preserved our complete model for future use. This workflow
represents the fundamental pattern you’ll follow for countless deep
learning projects.
Mastering these concepts is crucial because they form the
foundation upon which all advanced Keras applications are built. The
workflow you’ve learned—data preparation, model construction,
training with callbacks, evaluation with multiple metrics, and model
preservation—represents the core cycle of deep learning
development. As you progress to more complex architectures such
as convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and transformers, the basic
patterns will remain consistent. Understanding how to properly
normalize data, select appropriate loss functions, configure effective
callbacks, and meaningfully evaluate results will serve you in every
deep learning project you undertake. These are essential skills that
enable everything from medical diagnostics to autonomous vehicles.

--- Strana 410 ---
By mastering these fundamentals in Keras, you’re developing the
conceptual framework and practical skills that will allow you to tackle
increasingly sophisticated problems with confidence.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 411 ---
5.5    Summary
In this chapter, we began our exploration of the practical applications
of Keras, establishing the complete ecosystem that drives modern
deep learning. We learned how to use the computational power of
GPUs via Colab, enabling us to create complex neural networks
without the need for specialized hardware. We peeled back the
curtain on Keras’s foundation, examining how NumPy’s efficient
array operations and symbolic computation enable the magic of
automatic differentiation that makes gradient descent possible. The
heart of our exploration was a hands-on implementation of a
complete machine learning pipeline—from data acquisition and
preprocessing to model building, training with callbacks, evaluation
with nuanced metrics, and deployment through model saving.
Through our cat and dog classifier, we witnessed how Keras
elegantly abstracts away complexity while still providing fine-grained
control at every stage of development. This chapter didn’t just teach
techniques; it established the mental framework and workflow
patterns that underpin all deep learning projects, providing you with
the solid foundation needed to venture into more specialized
architectures and applications in the chapters ahead, starting with
techniques that help us build models that generalize better.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 412 ---
6    Regularization Techniques
In this chapter, we’ll explore the critical challenge that every
machine learning practitioner faces: creating models that
generalize well beyond their training data. You’ll learn how to
identify when our model is too complex or too simple. By the
end of this chapter, you’ll have acquired essential tools for
building neural networks that capture meaningful patterns
without being led astray by noise in the training data.
As we’ve explored in previous chapters, machine learning models
can capture increasingly complex patterns in data. We’ve moved
from simple linear models to powerful neural networks, each time
expanding our ability to represent sophisticated relationships. But
this growing power comes with a subtle danger. Just as a sharp knife
requires careful handling, powerful models demand proper control to
avoid cutting ourselves. In this chapter, we tackle one of the most
fundamental challenges in machine learning: how to create models
that are powerful enough to capture real patterns in our data without
being so flexible that they memorize the noise and peculiarities of
our specific training examples. This balancing act lies at the heart of
successful machine learning.

--- Strana 413 ---
When models are too simple, they miss important patterns—such as
attempting to explain quantum physics using only words a five-year-
old would understand. Imagine trying to describe the rich,
multifaceted flavor profile of a gourmet meal using only the words
“yummy” and “yucky”—you’d capture the basic sentiment but miss all
the nuance that makes the experience special. This is what happens
with underfit models; they capture the general direction but miss the
subtleties that matter. This problem, called underfitting, limits the
usefulness of our predictions, leaving us with a crude approximation
where precision is needed.
Conversely, when models are too complex relative to the amount of
training data available, they can achieve perfect performance on
training examples while failing spectacularly on new data. It’s the
equivalent of a student who memorizes exam answers without
understanding the underlying principles—they might ace the practice
test but freeze when the real exam presents questions with even
slight variations. Think of an overly complex model as a gossip who
creates elaborate narratives based on coincidences: “John always
wears blue on days when the stock market goes up!” Such a pattern
might perfectly explain past observations while being utterly useless
for predictions. This problem, called overfitting, often betrays itself
through a growing gap between training and testing performance—a
warning sign that our model is becoming too fixated on the
particularities of our training examples rather than learning
generalizable patterns.

--- Strana 414 ---
[+]  How to Approach This Chapter
The content of this chapter might seem mathematically dense, but
it’s perfectly fine if you don’t fully grasp every detail right away. I
encourage you to read through the content even when concepts
feel challenging. We’ll revisit key takeaways at the end, and I
promise these techniques will make more sense once you see
them in action. In practice, they are really easy to use.
In this chapter, we’ll see the tools that allow us to navigate between
these extremes. These tools let us use sophisticated, high-capacity
models while restraining their tendency to overfit. They act like
guardrails, keeping our models on the road to good generalization
rather than veering off into the ditch of memorization. The general
term for this balancing act is regularization. Here, we’ll explore
several powerful regularization approaches. We’ll begin with the L2
regularization method, which constrains our model weights to
prevent them from growing too large. We’ll then examine dropout,
which makes regularization very easy in practice. Along the way,
we’ll develop an intuitive understanding of the bias-variance trade-off
that underlies these techniques and learn practical skills for
implementing regularization in Keras. By the end of this chapter,
you’ll possess the essential tools to build models that not only
perform well on training data but generalize effectively to new,
unseen examples—the true measure of machine learning success.
Let’s begin working on this plan by revisiting our old friend—the
housing prices dataset.

--- Strana 415 ---
6.1    An Overview of Overfitting and
Underfitting: Do You Need More Data?
In Chapter 3, we built a simple housing price model with just one
feature. We assumed a linear relationship and thus drew a straight
line through our data points, capturing the basic relationship between
house size and price. This linear approach served us well as an
introduction, but it’s a bit like trying to describe a complex landscape
using only straight paths—sometimes, you need curves to capture
the real terrain. We later introduced neural networks as one way to
capture nonlinear relationships, giving our models the flexibility to
bend and curve in response to the data. But there’s another, often
simpler approach we can take: polynomial features. In the following
sections, we’ll take a look at how we can add flexibility to our
models. We’ll also discuss the problems that arise as we try to do
this and then introduce generalized solutions to these problems.
6.1.1    From Lines to Curves: Adding Polynomial
Features
Let’s consider what happens if the relationship between house size
and price isn’t a straight line but a curve. Think about it intuitively:
Perhaps each additional square meter becomes more valuable as
the house gets larger. A jump from 1,500 to 2,000 square meters
might add more value than a jump from 1,000 to 1,500 square
meters. If the ground truth is that the relationship between inputs and

--- Strana 416 ---
outputs is quadratic, but our model assumes linearity, we may get
some data points right, but the rest might not fit that well. Figure 6.1
shows what this model will look like. While not that bad for these few
data points, it will break down very quickly for larger x-axis values.
(For the following discussion, try not to focus on the actual y-axis
values. Try to look at the bigger picture by following the trend lines.)
Figure 6.1     Linear Model for a Quadratic Relationship
We can model the underlying relationship between the area and the
price as quadratic rather than linear. So, the ground truth is going to
look like Figure 6.2. Compare these two models, and you’ll notice
that the quadratic line follows the data more closely, especially as
the input values increase.
Notice how the squared values grow much faster than the original
areas. As the house size increases linearly, the squared term
increases quadratically. This gives our model the power to capture
accelerating relationships—known as polynomial regression. This

--- Strana 417 ---
means that, instead of just using the original feature (house size), we
create additional features by raising it to different powers. If our
original model looked like this:
Figure 6.2     Quadratic Model for the Quadratic Relationship
A quadratic model would look like this:
To incorporate this in our gradient descent algorithm, we simply have
to add a new column containing the squared values of the original
feature, as shown in Table 6.1.
Area Area2
Price
145
21,025
808
202
40,804
993

--- Strana 418 ---
Area Area2
Price
305
93,025
727
365
133,225 582
450
202,500 1612
Table 6.1     Values of Features Squared
Adding this column is quite easy to implement in code, especially
because this has to be done only once. We can augment our original
dataset with these new pseudo-features and then save the modified
dataset to the disk. After this step is done once, we only need to
consider the modified dataset for polynomial regression. This can be
easily achieved through Scikit-learn (sklearn) as well, as shown in
Listing 6.1. Here, the PolynomialFeatures function acts like a feature
multiplication workshop. When we set degree=2, we’re telling it to
create all possible combinations of our features raised to powers up
to 2. Because we only have one feature (house size), it simply gives
us that feature and its square. The include_bias=False parameter
tells it not to add a constant column of 1s because we’ll do that in our
model ourselves. (You can run the code through the 06-01-
polynomial-features notebook in the book resources on
https://recluze.net/keras-book and on the book’s official web page.)
When we call poly.fit_transform(X), the function analyzes our data
to understand its structure and then creates the new polynomial

--- Strana 419 ---
features. The result, X_poly, now has two columns: the original
house sizes and those same values squared.
import numpy as np 
from sklearn.preprocessing import PolynomialFeatures 
# Original feature - house sizes
X = np.array([[1000], [1500], [2000], [2500], [3000]])
# Transform into polynomial features
poly = PolynomialFeatures(degree=2, include_bias=False)
X_poly = poly.fit_transform(X)
print("Original features:")
print(X)
print("\nPolynomial features (degree 2):")
print(X_poly)
# Output --------------
# Original features:
# [[1000]
#  [1500]
#  [2000]
#  [2500]
#  [3000]]
#
# Polynomial features (degree 2):
# [[1.00e+03 1.00e+06]
#  [1.50e+03 2.25e+06]
#  [2.00e+03 4.00e+06]
#  [2.50e+03 6.25e+06]
#  [3.00e+03 9.00e+06]]  
Listing 6.1     Adding Polynomial Features Using Sklearn

--- Strana 420 ---
We’ve just transformed our single feature into two features—the
original area and the area squared. This gives our model more
flexibility to capture the curve in our data.
The beauty of this approach is that we can continue using our
existing gradient descent algorithm from the previous chapters
without any modifications. From the perspective of our gradient
descent code, we’re just adding another feature—it doesn’t know or
care that this new feature is derived from the original one. If we call
our original feature x and our new squared feature v (where v = x2),
our model becomes
All our gradient descent equations from Chapter 3 still apply
perfectly. We simply have one more weight (
) to learn, but the
fundamental process remains unchanged. The partial derivatives,
weight updates, and convergence criteria all work exactly as before.
In fact, we could add any number of transformed features ( x3, x4,
log( x), etc.), and our gradient descent algorithm would still work
without modification. This is one of the most powerful aspects of
machine learning algorithms: once you understand the core
principles, you can easily extend them to more complex scenarios by
transforming your data rather than rewriting your algorithms.

--- Strana 421 ---
6.1.2    Using Increasingly Complex Models
When we fit a linear model to our housing data, it can only draw a
straight line. But when we add polynomial features, our model can fit
curves of increasing complexity. Assume now that we don’t know
what the underlying relationship is. So, we go a step further and add
8 degrees of polynomial to our dataset instead of just the quadratic
term. The relationship learned as a result will look like Figure 6.3. As
you can see, the line follows even closer to the dataset but still
misses out some points.
Figure 6.3     8th Order Polynomial Fitting the Same Data

--- Strana 422 ---
Take this to an extreme and instead try to see what happens if we try
to model a relationship that is a 12th degree polynomial. This leads to
a curve fitting our data perfectly, as shown in Figure 6.4.
Figure 6.4     12th Order Polynomial Fitting the Same Data
The degree-1 model is just a straight line, while higher-degree
models can capture increasingly complex patterns. As we increase
the degree, our model becomes more flexible:
Degree 1: A straight line that misses most points
Degree 2: A gentle curve that follows the general trend
Degree 8: A slightly more flexible curve that gets closer to all
points
Degree 12: A wildly oscillating curve that touches every point
perfectly
Stop here and think about it! This flexibility is a double-edged sword.
The degree-12 model fits our training data perfectly, but it’s learned a

--- Strana 423 ---
complex pattern that’s unlikely to generalize well to new houses. It’s
like memorizing the exact answers to the practice problems without
understanding the underlying principles—you’ll ace the practice test
but struggle with new problems.
6.1.3    The Balance of Complexity
Adding more polynomial terms is like giving our model increasingly
sophisticated vocabulary—but as with human language, more words
don’t always lead to clearer communication. Let’s see what might go
wrong if we try to use the 12th degree polynomial we modeled
previously. To truly understand how our models perform, we need to
look beyond the training data. That’s where our test set comes in.
These are data points our model hasn’t seen during training—the
equivalent of a pop quiz with new questions. Let’s visualize how

--- Strana 424 ---
models of different complexities perform on both training and test
data in Figure 6.5.
Figure 6.5     Introducing the Test Set into the Mix
Notice how the curve passes precisely through each x (training
points), creating an elaborate, winding path. At first glance, this might
seem impressive, like a student who can recite every example from
the textbook perfectly. But the true test of learning isn’t
memorization; it’s the ability to apply knowledge to new situations.
When we look at how this model performs on the test data (the
circles), we see concerning discrepancies. The most dramatic
example occurs around x = 200, where our model takes a dramatic
plunge to predict a value of -500. But the actual test point in that
region shows a value closer to +400! That’s a staggering 900-unit
error.

--- Strana 425 ---
[+]  Interactive Demo for Polynomial Fits
You can play with an interactive demo we’ve created to show how
the fit changes based on the order of the polynomial. You can find
it on the book resources page at https://recluze.net/keras-book as
06-04-polynomial-fit-demo.
Our model has become so fixated on perfectly fitting every training
point that it’s created an unnecessarily complex explanation.
Between x = 150 and x = 250, the model noticed there weren’t many
training points, so it took a wild dive downward before shooting back
up. The algorithm didn’t “decide” to do this out of malice or
confusion; it simply found that this rollercoaster curve was
mathematically the best way to hit all the training points perfectly. So,
there are two extremes that we can face while deciding on model
complexity. We’ll discuss these in the following sections and provide
guidance for finding the sweet spot in between.
When Models Are Too Simple: Underfitting
Looking at our degree-1 polynomial (the straight line), we notice it
performs poorly on both the training and test data. The model fails to
capture the curvature that clearly exists in our housing price
relationship. The training error is high, and the test error is similarly
high.
As mentioned earlier, this problem is called underfitting or high bias.
It’s like trying to explain quantum mechanics using only elementary

--- Strana 426 ---
school vocabulary—the tools are simply inadequate for the task at
hand. Our model has made an overly simplistic assumption about
the world (that housing prices are a linear function of area), and this
bias prevents it from learning the true pattern. This assumption is
built into the very structure of our linear model. By restricting
ourselves to a straight line, we’re essentially declaring that each
additional square meter adds exactly the same value to a house,
regardless of the home’s size. This ignores economic realities such
as premium pricing for larger homes, the diminishing utility of extra
space beyond certain thresholds, or the way different size brackets
might appeal to different market segments.
This is what high bias means in machine learning: The model has
strong preconceptions about what the underlying function should
look like, and these preconceptions are wrong. No amount of
additional training data will help a linear model fit a quadratic
relationship—it simply doesn’t have the capacity to represent the
curve. In practice, it’s usually easy to recognize a situation in which a
model is underfitting. This is usually when we have very high training
loss. This means that our model can’t even memorize the data points
given to it, let alone predict unseen data points.
[+]  The Term High Bias
Underfitting is called high bias because the model is biased toward
its own simplistic understanding rather than adapting to the true
complexity of the data. It doesn’t want to learn from its mistakes.

--- Strana 427 ---
When Models Are Too Complex: Overfitting
On the other end, look at the degree-12 polynomial. It creates a
wildly oscillating curve that passes almost perfectly through each
training point. The training error is nearly zero—our model has
essentially memorized the training data! But look what happens with
the test points: The model’s predictions are way off. The test error is
enormous compared to the training error. Our model has learned the
peculiarities of our specific training examples rather than the general
relationship between house size and price.
To understand this distinction, we need to recognize that any dataset
contains two components: the underlying pattern we want to learn
and the random noise or peculiarities specific to our sample. The
underlying pattern is the true relationship that generalizes across all
houses—perhaps house prices increase with area following a gentle
quadratic curve due to fundamental market dynamics. This pattern
applies to houses we haven’t seen yet and represents the predictive
knowledge we’re actually seeking. The peculiarities, on the other
hand, are random fluctuations specific to our training examples—
perhaps one house in our training set sold for slightly more because
it had a particularly nice view, or another sold for less because the
owner needed to move quickly. These factors aren’t captured in our
features and appear as random noise in our data. When we use a
degree-12 polynomial to fit just a handful of training points, we’re
giving our model enough flexibility to memorize not just the general
trend but also these random fluctuations. It’s like creating an
elaborate theory to explain why one student got a 93% and another

--- Strana 428 ---
got a 91% on a test, when the difference might just be that one
student guessed correctly on one more question.
As mentioned at the beginning of the chapter, this problem is called
overfitting or high variance and is recognizable through a key
indicator: very low error on training data along with significantly
higher error on test data that leads to a large performance gap
between training and test results. Overfitting occurs when our model
is so flexible that it captures not only the underlying pattern but also
the random noise in our training data.
[+]  The Term High Variance
Overfitting is called high variance because the parameters the
model learns are going to vary a lot depending on which data
points are used to train it. If we pick odd-numbered data points,
the model will learn their peculiarities, which will be quite different
from the specific noise in even-numbered data points.
Finding the Sweet Spot
The degree-2 polynomial seems to strike a good balance. It’s flexible
enough to capture the curvature in our data without going overboard
with unnecessary complexity. Both the training and test errors are
relatively low, and they’re similar to each other—a sign that our
model is generalizing well.

--- Strana 429 ---
This illustrates a fundamental principle in machine learning: the bias-
variance trade-off. As we increase model complexity, the following
happens:
Bias tends to decrease (the model can represent more complex
patterns).
Variance tends to increase (the model becomes more sensitive to
the specific training examples).
Our goal is to find the sweet spot that balances these two sources of
error. It’s like stretching a rubber band to wrap around a package—
not stretching enough leaves it too loose to hold anything together
(underfitting), while stretching it too far causes it to snap (overfitting).
We need just the right amount of tension that secures the package
without breaking the band.
Important Issues to Keep in Mind
Remember that our algorithms don’t “see” the data the way we do.
When we perform gradient descent, the machine isn’t visualizing
curves or making aesthetic judgments about whether or not the line
fitting the points is visually appealing. It’s simply calculating a loss
value and following the gradient downward, regardless of whether
the resulting function is sensibly smooth or wildly oscillating between
data points. This presents a fundamental challenge that becomes
even more pronounced with high-dimensional data. In our housing
example, we could visualize the relationship between house size and
price in a simple 2D plot. But what if our model includes dozens or

--- Strana 430 ---
hundreds of features? We lose our ability to eyeball the complexity of
the relationship, and even experts can’t intuitively judge when a
model with 50 features is using a relationship that’s too complex.
We have two broad approaches to address this challenge. The first,
which we touched on in Chapter 3, is to simply make an assumption
about the appropriate complexity for our problem. We might decide
based on domain knowledge that a quadratic relationship makes
sense for housing prices or that certain features should interact while
others shouldn’t. This approach works well when we have strong
prior knowledge, but it’s not always available.
The second approach—which we’ll focus on throughout the rest of
this chapter—is to develop automated methods that help us
determine the right level of complexity. We need mechanisms that
allow our models to find that balance themselves without requiring us
to manually specify the perfect polynomial degree or feature
interactions.
Another critical point to remember is that we must make these
decisions without peeking at the test set. Using test data to choose
our model’s complexity is like getting access to exam questions
before a test—it defeats the purpose of having an independent
evaluation. This form of data leakage can give us an overly optimistic
view of how well our model will perform on truly new data when
deployed in the real world.

--- Strana 431 ---
[ ! ]  Always Keep the Test Set Separate
When writing code, always make sure that you aren’t using your
test data points during training. While this might lead to good
laboratory results, the model’s real success—that in the real world
—will become unpredictable!
These techniques are guardrails that keep our models on the right
path. Rather than manually deciding when to stop adding complexity,
we’ll develop systems that naturally prefer simpler explanations
unless there’s strong evidence for complexity. As we explore these
techniques, remember that finding the right complexity isn’t simply a
theoretical concern. It’s fundamental to creating models that work in
the real world. A model that perfectly memorizes training data but
fails on new examples is like a student who can recite textbook
pages verbatim but can’t apply the concepts to new problems. Our
goal is to build models that truly learn the underlying patterns. They
shouldn’t be limited to the specific examples we’ve shown them.
But how do we come up with complex models that capture intricate
patterns in our data without overfitting? That’s where regularization
comes in—a technique that allows us to use complex models while
preventing them from overfitting. We’ll explore this powerful
approach in the next section.

--- Strana 432 ---
6.1.4    Regularization Term
Now that we’ve identified the problem of overfitting, let’s discuss a
powerful solution that doesn’t require us to manually restrict our
model’s complexity. Rather than deciding in advance which
polynomial degree to use, what if we could use a high-degree
polynomial but somehow encourage it to behave more reasonably?
This is where regularization enters the picture. Regularization works
by modifying our loss function—the very compass that guides our
model during training. Let’s recall the loss function we used in
Chapter 3 for our housing price prediction:
This function only cares about one thing: how well our predictions (
) match the actual values (
) in our training data. It’s like a teacher
who grades solely on getting the correct final answers without
considering how students arrive at those answers or whether their
methods would work on different problems.
We’re going to add a term to this loss function. It might seem strange
at first but we’ll explain the “why” of this in a minute. This is called
the L2 regularization term and is given as
where  (lambda) is a new hyperparameter that controls complexity,
and 
 represents each parameter in our model. Our complete
regularized loss function becomes

--- Strana 433 ---
We can modify the value of this parameter at will. First, let’s consider
what happens when we set 
. In this case, our loss function
simplifies to
We’re right back to our original mean squared error (MSE)! The
regularization term completely disappears, and our model is free to
use any parameter values it wants, however large, to fit the training
data perfectly. This is the world we were living in before, where our
polynomial models could create those wild oscillations to pass
through every training point. See the solid lined contour plot in
Figure 6.6 for what the loss function landscape will look like in this
case. In this example, we get 
 for our model

--- Strana 434 ---
parameter values that minimize the loss. If you want a refresher on
contour plots, please refer to Chapter 3, Section 3.2.1.
Figure 6.6     Effect of Lambda on Contour Plots and Minimizing Values
But what happens at the other extreme? Let’s say we set  to a very
large value, such as 1000. Now our loss function becomes
overwhelmingly dominated by the regularization term. The whole
MSE loss function doesn’t matter much at all because the
regularization term has all the say in the final value of the overall
loss.
[Ex]  Effect of Weights: A Simple Example
To fully internalize what  is doing, consider

--- Strana 435 ---
where W (our hyperparameter) is a very large number such as
1000. If q = 10 and r = 0.01, then
Now, if we change q by adding 2 to it, p becomes
On the other side, if we merely change r a tiny bit to 0.015, then
Even though we made a much smaller relative change to r, its
effect on the final result is more significant than a large change in
q because it’s being multiplied by that large weight W.
When  is very large, the MSE term becomes almost irrelevant
compared to even tiny changes in the regularization term. Our
gradient descent algorithm will focus almost entirely on minimizing
the regularization term, with little regard for how well the model
actually fits the training data.
So, what does minimizing the regularization term mean? Let’s look at
it again:
When we’re trying to minimize this expression and  is fixed (even if
it’s large), the only way to make it smaller is to reduce the sum of

--- Strana 436 ---
squared parameters. And the absolute minimum value this sum can
take is 0, which happens when all parameters 
 are exactly 0.
This is a critical insight: When  is extremely large, our model will
push all parameters toward 0, effectively ignoring the actual
relationships in the data. Even increasing one parameter to a small
value like 0.1 would add 
 to our sum, which gets
multiplied by our large 
 to add 10 units to our loss—a huge
penalty compared to the minor improvement it might make to the
MSE term. Refer back to Figure 6.6. In this case, when  is very
large, the only thing that affects the loss is the regularization term,
which is forcing the loss to have a minimum when both parameter
values are 0 (or extremely close to it). Remember, the MSE term is
what’s looking at our data points and measuring how well our
predictions match the actual house prices. It’s the part of our loss
function that connects our model to reality. If we ignore it by setting 
too high, we’re essentially telling our model, “Don’t worry about
predicting house prices accurately—just make sure all of your
parameters are as close to 0 as possible!”
With all parameters at or near 0, our model would predict virtually the
same value for every house, regardless of its size or any other
features. This is the opposite extreme of overfitting—we’ve now
created a model that’s too simple to capture any meaningful patterns
in our data, which is a classic case of underfitting.
To summarize, consider what this means: With a large value of ,
we’re saying that all values of thetas should be 0. This feels like a

--- Strana 437 ---
mathematical quirk, but it’s a fundamental reshaping of our model’s
underlying behavior.
In turn, we’re saying that none of the inputs have any relation to the
output, so we completely disconnected the inputs from the predicted
output. That is obviously not what we want. Imagine trying to predict
house prices without considering size, location, or any features at all!
It would be like a real estate agent who gives the same price
estimate for every house, regardless of whether it’s a mansion or a
studio apartment. But now, we have two extremes: when  is 0, the
regularization term has no effect, but when it’s very large, the
regularization term dominates and says that none of the inputs have
any effect on the output. We’ve mapped out two boundaries of a
spectrum—on one end, our model is free to create wild, complex
relationships that overfit our training data, and on the other, it’s
constrained to the point of uselessness, ignoring all input features
entirely.
What we want is to somehow control this by slowly turning the knob
of . Think of  as a sensitivity dial on a sophisticated instrument.
Turn it too low, and the readings become chaotic and unreliable—our
model overfits. Turn it too high, and the instrument becomes
unresponsive—our model underfits. Somewhere in the middle lies
the sweet spot where our model is responsive to genuine patterns in
the data without being overly sensitive to noise.

--- Strana 438 ---
6.1.5    Adjusting the Complexity Knob
Refer back to Figure 6.6 one last time. When we change the  from
0 to a very high value, this takes us slowly from point A in the figure
to point B. During this movement, some of the inputs are ignored
less, and some are ignored more. Point A sits far from the origin, with
large values for both 
 and 
. This is where our model lands when
 equals 0—we’re only concerned with minimizing the MSE, and
we’ve found parameters that fit our training data exceptionally well.
But these large parameter values suggest a complex model that
might be overfitting.
Point B, in stark contrast, sits much closer to the origin. As 
increases, our model is pulled toward this simpler configuration with
smaller parameter values. It’s like watching a ball rolling downhill, but
the landscape itself is changing as we adjust , creating a stronger
gravitational pull toward the origin.
The black solid line connecting A and B traces the path our model
takes as we gradually increase . Notice how the path isn’t simply a
straight line toward the origin—it follows a nuanced trajectory
influenced by both the shape of our error surface (solid contours)
and the regularization penalty (dashed circles).
This visualization reveals something profound about regularization: It
doesn’t simply shrink all parameters equally. As we move from A
toward B, some parameters decrease more rapidly than others. The
model is making strategic sacrifices, reducing the influence of some

--- Strana 439 ---
inputs while preserving others that provide more explanatory power
per unit of regularization cost.
It’s similar to how a company might respond to budget cuts—not by
reducing every department equally, but by strategically preserving
critical functions while scaling back areas that deliver less value
relative to their cost. Our model likewise preserves the most efficient
parameters while penalizing those that contribute less to predictive
accuracy relative to their size. When this happens, the model might
decide to make the weights associated with 4+ degree polynomials
0, thus effectively reducing the model complexity. We have a way of
adjusting complexity by just changing one value—the 
hyperparameter! This movement between A and B represents the
fundamental trade-off at the heart of regularization—finding the
sweet spot where our model is complex enough to capture true
patterns in the data but simple enough to avoid fitting noise.
But how do we figure out where to stop? How do we know which
value of  gives us that perfect balance between simplicity and
accuracy? Here’s the plan: We already know that we can’t trust our
training loss. So, we’re going to set  to a particular value, run the
whole training/testing, and come up with a final test loss value for
this particular  value. Then, we’ll change the  value and rerun the
whole thing again—this time getting a different overall test loss.
Remember, training loss isn’t important. That is always going to be
minimum for an overfitting model.
So, we end up with this experimental process:

--- Strana 440 ---
1. Choose a specific  value.
2. Train a model using this  value on your training data.
3. Evaluate the model’s performance on test data to get a test loss.
4. Record the  value and corresponding training and test losses.
5. Select a different  value.
6. Repeat steps 2–5 for multiple  values.
7. Plot the relationship between  values and training and test
losses.
8. Identify the  value that produces the lowest test loss.
Each experiment gives us a point on a curve showing the
relationship between regularization strength and generalization
performance. It’s like a scientist methodically testing different
conditions to find the optimal formula. A typical example of this plot is
shown in Figure 6.7.
The figure illustrates the dance between underfitting and overfitting
as we adjust our regularization strength. Take a careful look at the x-
axis—it’s actually plotted in reverse, with high  values on the left
(1.0) decreasing to 0 on the right. This reverse scaling helps us

--- Strana 441 ---
visualize the journey from simple to complex models as we move
from left to right.
Figure 6.7     Effect of Regularization on Training and Testing Losses
When we start on the left side with a high  value, we’re firmly in the
underfitting region. Here, our model is playing it too safe—most
parameters are essentially 0, and the model is largely ignoring the
patterns in our data. The training loss is high because our model isn’t
capturing much of anything, and the test loss is equally
disappointing.
As we begin to decrease , moving rightward on the graph, both
training and test loss start to decrease. This is the sweet spot of
learning—our model is gradually embracing more complexity,
discovering genuine patterns in the data rather than just playing it
safe. The model is learning something meaningful from the data, and
this learning generalizes well to new examples. But notice what
happens as we continue moving right, further decreasing  below
0.33. The training loss continues its downward trajectory—after all,
with less regularization, our model can fit the training data more and

--- Strana 442 ---
more precisely. It’s like a student who memorizes the textbook
examples perfectly.
However, the test loss reaches its minimum at 
 (marked by
the dot and vertical dashed line) and then begins to climb back up.
This inflection point tells us something crucial: our model has started
to overfit. It’s no longer just learning meaningful patterns; it’s starting
to memorize the quirks and noise in our training data. Like an actor
who rehearses so rigidly that they can’t adapt to unexpected
circumstances, our model is losing its ability to generalize.
[+]  The Goldilocks Zone
The visualization in Figure 6.7 perfectly captures the Goldilocks
principle in machine learning: With high , our model is too simple
(underfitting); with low , it’s too complex (overfitting); but at
, it’s just right—complex enough to learn meaningful
patterns but not so complex that it gets distracted by noise.
This vertical line marks this optimal value—the point where we
should stop reducing  and declare this as our best model. It has just
the right amount of complexity, balancing the need to fit the training
data against the risk of memorizing noise. It’s found the sweet spot
between ignoring the data (underfitting) and believing everything it
sees (overfitting). What’s particularly elegant about this approach is
that we didn’t need to manually specify how complex our model
should be. Instead, by systematically exploring different  values and
measuring their effect on test performance, we let the data itself tell

--- Strana 443 ---
us the right level of complexity. This data-driven approach to model
selection is at the heart of modern machine learning.
6.1.6    Do I Need More Data
Now we’re in the position to answer that difficult question in machine
learning practice: Should I get more data to make my machine learn
better. The answer is “not always.” It’s a bit like wondering if you
need more ingredients to improve your cooking—sometimes the
secret lies not in more stuff but in better technique—or in our case,
complexity. Data collection is expensive, especially labeled data.
Getting it in good quality is more difficult. Think of labeled data like
handcrafted furniture—each piece requires careful human attention,
making it valuable and time-consuming to produce. So, we need to
make sure our model actually needs more data before spending the
time and effort to collect it.
Before rushing to gather more examples, you first need to use
whatever data is available and plot your complexity curves, as we
saw in the previous subsection. This diagnostic step is like a doctor
running tests before prescribing medication—we need to understand
the nature of our model’s struggles before we can properly address
them. Then, figure out if you’re in the overfitting or underfitting zone.
If you’re underfitting, first increase the complexity of the model by
adding higher order polynomials or add complexity in other ways.
This is like upgrading from a bicycle to a car when you’re

--- Strana 444 ---
consistently arriving late—sometimes, the tool itself lacks the
necessary capacity.
In neural networks, adding more complexity means adding more
layers or more neurons. Each layer in a neural network acts like a
team of specialists that processes information in increasingly
sophisticated ways. The first layer might identify simple patterns
such as edges or colors, while deeper layers combine these basic
observations into complex concepts such as “this is a face” or “this
sentence expresses disappointment.” Adding more neurons is like
hiring more specialists within each team, allowing for more nuanced
processing.
For example, if you’re building an image recognition system that
struggles to distinguish between cats and dogs, adding more layers
might help it recognize hierarchical features—moving from
identifying basic shapes to understanding fur patterns to recognizing
distinctive facial structures. Similarly, adding more neurons might
help it become sensitive to subtle distinctions within these
categories. When you do this, you’ll get a better understanding of
which zone you’re in. It’s like turning up the volume on your model’s
capabilities to see if that solves the problem.
If you’re underfitting, first make your model complex enough. Don’t
rush to collect more data if your current model isn’t even capable of
capturing the patterns in your existing dataset.
If you’re overfitting, then more data can usually help because as you
get more data, there are more patterns and complexity, and your

--- Strana 445 ---
model can actually find these patterns and decrease the loss. Think
of it like teaching someone to recognize bird species—if you only
show them three examples of eagles, they might fixate on irrelevant
details such as the background color. But show them hundreds of
eagles in different positions, lighting conditions, and environments,
and they’ll start to focus on the truly distinctive features. Additional
data in the overfitting zone works because it forces your model to
find generalizable patterns rather than memorizing specific
examples. It’s the difference between a student who has memorized
a few specific math problems versus one who has solved enough
variations to understand the underlying principles that apply to all
problems of that type.
This strategic approach to model improvement—diagnosing the
problem first, then addressing it appropriately—saves you from the
costly mistake of gathering unnecessary data or the frustration of
trying to force a too-simple model to perform complex tasks. It’s
about working smarter, not just collecting more. Once all of this is
done and we have the best value for our hyperparameter , one final
test for our model remains.
6.1.7    Reporting the Final Results: Validation Set
Hold on a minute—we’ve just uncovered a subtle but critical issue in
our approach. Remember how we used our test set to pick our
hyperparameter value ? There’s a hidden danger here that we need
to address.

--- Strana 446 ---
Think about what we’ve been doing so far. We used our training data
to learn the model parameters, which makes perfect sense. Then,
we used what we’ve been calling our “test set” to find the best 
value. But here’s the catch: By using this test data to make decisions
about our model structure, we’ve actually leaked information from
the test data into our design process. Like peeking at part of the final
exam while studying, it compromises the integrity of our evaluation.
Just as we used the training set to pick the model parameters and
then used the test set to ensure that these parameters were correct,
we need to somehow ensure that the  picked using the test set is
also correct. We need a truly independent evaluation that hasn’t
influenced any of our choices. For this, we’re going to need some
more data, but we used up all our data during training and testing
(hyperparameter optimization). What now? Don’t worry. We can still
keep the same process but start slightly differently. In step 1 of our
machine learning process, we won’t split the data into just training
and testing. We’ll split it in three parts: training, validation, and test
sets. The training part is self-evident—it’s the data our model learns
from directly, adjusting its parameters to minimize the loss function.
The second set that we use to select the best hyperparameters—
what we’ve been calling the test set until now—will be called the
validation set. It’s like a practice exam that helps us fine-tune our
study strategy before the real thing.
Once the hyperparameter best value is decided, we’ll use this
singular value to run the whole model on the third set, which we’ll
now call the test set as it’s doing the final testing of our model. This

--- Strana 447 ---
test set is our genuine, untouched evaluation data—it’s like the
sealed final exam that only gets opened when everything else is
ready and once you take that, you can no longer retake it.
Whatever result is achieved by the model on the test set, we report
that. If it’s not good, our model didn’t learn well. This lets us ensure
that when the model is deployed in the real world, it will likely
perform just the same as it did on the test set. By maintaining this
discipline, we build models that don’t just perform well on data
they’ve seen before but are truly prepared for the challenges of the
real world.
[+]  The Three-Way Split of Data
This three-way split creates a clean separation of concerns:
Training data teaches our model parameters.
Validation data helps us choose the best hyperparameters.
Test data gives us a true evaluation of our final model’s
performance.
This is the scientific method for machine learning: We form
hypotheses with the training data, refine them with the validation
data, and then conduct the final experiment with the test data.

--- Strana 448 ---
To summarize this section, regularization gives us a powerful way to
manage complexity, acting like a judicious editor that simplifies our
model by gradually silencing unnecessary parameters—encouraging
our model to generalize from patterns rather than memorize specific
examples. However, this approach does come with its own
challenges, particularly in computational efficiency. To calculate the
best value of , we have to run the entire training multiple times in a
loop, which might not be feasible for large-scale modern machine
models.
In the next section, we’ll explore an alternative technique that
maintains this core philosophy of controlled complexity while
addressing this limitation. The concepts we’ve learned until now will
still be useful, but we’ll find an easier way to reduce unnecessary
complexity.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 449 ---
6.2    Dropout: Concept and Implementation
Take a look at Figure 6.8. Even though a large part of the object in
front of the keyboard is obstructed, you can tell that it’s unmistakably
a banana. Despite this obstruction, your brain can still identify it
easily. You’ve learned the concept of “banana-ness” so well that you
don’t need to see the entire fruit to recognize it even if it’s
surrounded by other unrelated objects.
Figure 6.8     An Obstructed Image
Neural networks, however, often struggle with this kind of robust
recognition because they tend to fall into a trap known as co-
adaptation.

--- Strana 450 ---
6.2.1    The Problem: Co-Adaptation and Overfitting
Co-adaptation occurs when neurons in a network become overly
reliant on one another during training. Recall that in neural networks,
neurons are all connected to each other in adjacent layers, with each
neuron feeding its learned features forward to neurons in the next
layer. This interconnected structure is powerful, but it creates an
environment where co-dependencies can easily form. Instead of
learning independent, robust features, neurons develop intricate
dependencies. This is like a study group where, instead of each
student developing their own understanding of the material, they
become completely dependent on each other’s notes and can’t
function independently. In our neural network, this means that
specific neurons start to compensate for the mistakes or biases of
others. Rather than learning complementary features that contribute
to overall understanding, they form a fragile ecosystem where each
neuron’s output critically depends on precisely what other neurons
are doing.
Think about our banana image again. A robust network should
recognize bananas based on multiple independent features: color,
shape, texture, and size. But a co-adapted network might develop
strange dependencies where one neuron only activates if another
specific neuron has activated in a particular way. Remove or alter
any piece of this intricate puzzle, and the whole recognition system
falls apart.

--- Strana 451 ---
6.2.2    The Road to Memorization
This co-adaptation leads directly to overfitting, which is perhaps the
most persistent challenge in machine learning. Instead of learning
generalizable patterns from the training data, the network essentially
memorizes the training examples. When this happens, our network
performs brilliantly on training data but fails miserably when faced
with new examples. The network has learned the peculiarities and
even the noise in the training set rather than the true underlying
patterns that would allow it to generalize to new situations.
The consequences of this co-adaptation and overfitting are far from
academic. In real-world applications, they manifest as follows:
Medical diagnosis systems that work perfectly in the lab but fail
with patients from different demographics
Facial recognition systems that can’t handle varying lighting
conditions
Recommendation engines that can’t adapt to shifting user
preferences
Autonomous vehicles that struggle with unfamiliar road conditions
In each case, the network has learned to rely too heavily on specific
patterns in the training data rather than developing robust,
generalizable features.
The elegant concept of dropout was designed to solve this very
issue. The strategy is pretty simple: Randomly ignore some neurons

--- Strana 452 ---
during training. That’s it—that’s the whole strategy. By randomly
“dropping out” neurons during training, we force the network to build
redundancy and resilience. Each neuron can no longer rely on any
other specific neuron being present, so it must learn features that are
robust even when parts of the network are missing—just like how
you can still recognize a banana even when most of it is covered by
a white rectangle.
Let’s consider how this simple concept cleverly simulates an
ensemble of different networks to combat this problem of co-
adaptation and overfitting.
6.2.3    The Ensemble Intuition Behind Dropout
Picture yourself assembling a team for an important project. Would
you rather have one brilliant but temperamental expert who might not
show up on the day of your presentation, or would you prefer a
diverse group of solid performers who can cover for each other if
someone falls ill? Most of us would choose the reliable team. This is
precisely the wisdom behind dropout, as we’ll discuss in the
following sections.
Training an Ensemble in Disguise
At its heart, dropout is a clever illusion. While it appears we’re
training a single neural network, we’re actually training thousands of
different networks simultaneously. It’s like having a theater company

--- Strana 453 ---
where, for each rehearsal, some actors randomly call in sick, forcing
the remaining cast to adapt and cover their roles. When we apply
dropout to a neural network with 100 neurons and set our dropout
rate to 0.5 (meaning each neuron has a 50% chance of being
temporarily disabled), we’re effectively creating 2100 different
possible network configurations. That’s more possible networks than
there are atoms in the observable universe! Each training iteration
randomly samples one of these possible networks, trains it for that
batch, and then moves on to another random configuration.
This is the magic of dropout: instead of training one massive, co-
dependent network, we’re training an implicit ensemble of thinner,
more robust networks that are forced to work independently.
Connection to Other Ensemble Methods
The concept behind dropout is part of a broader class of machine
learning techniques known as ensemble methods. In traditional
machine learning, algorithms such as random forests improve on
basic decision trees by training on different subsets of features and
examples to create a more robust predictor.
If you’re interested in exploring these connections further, looking
into traditional ensemble methods such as bagging and boosting can
be illuminating. These approaches explicitly train multiple complete
models and then combine their predictions. What makes dropout
special is that it achieves a similar ensemble effect implicitly within a

--- Strana 454 ---
single model, making it computationally efficient while still capturing
the wisdom of the crowd.
The key insight that connects dropout to classical ensemble methods
is this: Diversity in learning leads to robustness in prediction. By
forcing different parts of the network to function independently, we
create a system where errors tend to cancel out rather than
compound. This ensemble intuition helps explain why,
counterintuitively, deliberately handicapping our network during
training by randomly shutting off neurons actually leads to better
generalization. It’s the neural network equivalent of the old saying,
“What doesn’t kill you makes you stronger.”
In the next section, we’ll dive into the nuts and bolts of how dropout
is actually implemented, including the subtle but important scaling
adjustments needed to make the technique work properly.
6.2.4    Dropout Mechanics
Now that we understand the “why” behind dropout, let’s roll up our
sleeves and explore the “how.” Like many brilliant ideas, dropout’s
implementation is surprisingly straightforward, though there are
some subtle but crucial details that make all the difference, as we’ll
discuss in the following sections.

--- Strana 455 ---
Two Phases: Training vs. Inference
Think of dropout as wearing two different hats—one during training
and another during testing (or inference). This dual personality is key
to understanding how dropout works in practice. During training,
dropout behaves like that one friend who’s always canceling plans at
the last minute. As your network processes each batch of data,
dropout randomly selects neurons and says, “Sorry, can’t make it
today!” These neurons are temporarily removed from the network,
their outputs are set to zero, and they don’t contribute to the forward
pass or receive updates during backpropagation.
When it’s time for the real show—the inference phase where your
model makes predictions on new data—dropout suddenly becomes
completely reliable. All neurons show up for work with no exceptions.
This Jekyll and Hyde behavior serves a purpose. During training, the
random dropout forces the network to build redundancy and
resilience. During inference, we want our model to use all of its
resources to make the best possible predictions.
The Mathematics of Scaling: Balancing the Books
There’s a mathematical wrinkle in this that we need to iron out
though. If we’re turning off, say, 50% of our neurons during training
but keeping them all on during inference, won’t this create a
mismatch in the scale of activations? This is a crucial detail that the
original dropout paper addresses. Let’s walk through it with a simple
example.

--- Strana 456 ---
Consider the case where you have a layer with 4 neurons, each
outputting the value 2. The total output sum is 8. Now, if we apply
dropout with a rate of 0.5, we randomly disable 2 of these neurons,
leaving us with a sum of 4 instead of 8. That’s a significant reduction!
To compensate for this reduction during training, we scale up the
remaining activations by dividing by (1 – dropoutRate). In our
example, we’d multiply the output of each remaining neuron by 1/(1
– 0.5) = 2. So, our 2 remaining neurons now output 4 each, giving us
a total of 8 again—matching the expected magnitude of the full
network.
Inverted Dropout: The Modern Approach
In early implementations, the scaling correction was applied during
inference—all activations were multiplied by (1 – dropoutRate).
However, this approach has a disadvantage: You need to apply
different operations depending on whether you’re in training or
inference mode.
Modern implementations use what’s called inverted dropout, which
flips this approach. With inverted dropout, the following occurs:
During training, we scale up the remaining activations
immediately.
During inference, no scaling is needed at all.
This shift simplifies deployment by ensuring the inference-time
computation is exactly what you’d expect without dropout. In code,

--- Strana 457 ---
inverted dropout looks like that given in Listing 6.2.
def inverted_dropout(x, dropout_rate):
    if training:
        # Generate binary dropout mask
        mask = np.random.binomial(1, 1-dropout_rate, 
size=x.shape)
        # Apply mask and scale
        return (x * mask) / (1 - dropout_rate)
    else:
        # During inference, no changes
        return x  
Listing 6.2     Inverted Dropout in Python
6.2.5    Finding the Sweet Spot: Dropout Rates in
Practice
Not all layers are created equal when it comes to dropout. Through
years of experimentation, the deep learning community has
developed some rules of thumb for dropout rates:
Input layers
Light dropout (0.1–0.2) or none at all.
Hidden layers
Moderate dropout (0.3–0.5).
Very deep networks
Increasing dropout for deeper layers.

--- Strana 458 ---
Convolutional layers
Lower dropout rates than fully connected layers.
Recurrent layers
Apply dropout carefully, often with specialized techniques.
Transformers
Typically use dropout rates around 0.1.
We’ll get to the convolution and transformer layers in Chapter 7 and
Chapter 9, respectively. The intuition here is that earlier layers learn
more general features that are less prone to overfitting, while deeper
layers learn more specialized features that benefit more from
regularization.
It’s worth noting that dropout isn’t a one-size-fits-all solution. Some
architectures (particularly very deep ones or those with skip
connections) may benefit from different dropout strategies or
alternative regularization techniques. Like any good recipe, the key
is experimentation and adaptation to your specific ingredients.
In the next section, we’ll put theory into practice by visualizing
exactly what happens to your network’s internal representations
when dropout is applied. Seeing is believing, and these
visualizations will give you a concrete understanding of how dropout
reshapes your model’s learning process.

--- Strana 459 ---
6.2.6    Implementing Dropout in Pure Python
Let’s roll up our sleeves and build dropout from the ground up.
There’s something magical about implementing an algorithm yourself
—it transforms an abstract concept into something tangible that you
can poke, prod, and truly understand. Like learning to bake bread
from scratch instead of buying it at the store, coding dropout yourself
gives you insights you’d never get from just importing a library. So,
let’s create a simple Dropout layer in pure Python using Listing 6.3.
The complete code for this section can be seen in the book
resources page on https://recluze.net/keras-book in the notebook 06-
02-dropout-scratch and on the book’s official web page.
import numpy as np
class Dropout:
    def __init__(self, dropout_rate=0.5):
        self.dropout_rate = dropout_rate
        self.mask = None
        self.training = True
        
    def forward(self, inputs):
        if not self.training:
            return inputs
        
        # Create a binary mask: 1 for keep, 0 for drop
        self.mask = np.random.binomial(1, 1 - \ 
                     self.dropout_rate, size=inputs.shape)
        
        # Apply the mask and scale by the keep probability
        # This is inverted dropout

--- Strana 460 ---
        outputs = (inputs * self.mask) / (1 - 
self.dropout_rate)
        
        return outputs
    
    def backward(self, grad_outputs):
        # Apply the same mask to the gradient
        return (grad_outputs * self.mask) / (1 - 
self.dropout_rate)
    
    def set_mode(self, training):
        self.training = training  
Listing 6.3     Dropout Layer in Pure Python
Let’s take a moment to digest what’s happening here. Our Dropout
class is like a gatekeeper that neurons must pass through. During
training, this gatekeeper randomly stops some neurons from passing
(setting them to 0) and gives a boost to the ones that make it through
(scaling them up). During inference, the gatekeeper steps aside and
lets everyone through without any interference.
To really understand what’s happening, let’s create a toy example
and see dropout in action through Listing 6.4. Consider having a
small layer with just 10 neurons, and we’re applying a dropout rate of
0.5, meaning roughly half the neurons will be deactivated.
# Let's create a toy example
np.random.seed(42)  # For reproducibility
# Create an input with 10 neurons, each with activation 1.0
inputs = np.ones(10)

--- Strana 461 ---
print("Original inputs:", inputs)
# Apply dropout during training
dropout = Dropout(dropout_rate=0.5)
dropout.set_mode(training=True)
outputs_training = dropout.forward(inputs)
print("Mask:", dropout.mask)
print("Training outputs:", outputs_training)
# Now, let's see what happens during inference
dropout.set_mode(training=False)
outputs_inference = dropout.forward(inputs)
print("Inference outputs:", outputs_inference)
# Outputs ---------
Original inputs: [1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1.]
Mask: [1 0 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 0]
Training outputs: [2. 0. 2. 0. 2. 2. 0. 2. 2. 0.]
Inference outputs: [1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1.]  
Listing 6.4     Using the Custom Dropout Layer
Notice how during training, some outputs become 0 (where the mask
is 0), while others are scaled up to 2.0 (because our dropout_rate is
0.5, we divide by 0.5, which doubles the value). But during inference,
all outputs remain at their original values of 1.0. This is inverted
dropout in action—scale during training, and do nothing during
inference. Keras uses something very similar to this layer in its
implementation. So, you can use Keras’s implementation but be
aware of some common pitfalls that you might encounter when using
it, as we’ll discuss next.

--- Strana 462 ---
6.2.7    Common Pitfalls and Debugging Tips
When implementing dropout, there are a few common pitfalls to
watch out for:
Forgetting to switch modes
The most common mistake is forgetting to set training=False
during inference. This would apply random dropout to your
production predictions! Always double-check your mode
transitions.
Incorrect scaling
If you scale during inference instead of training (noninverted
dropout), you might accidentally apply the scaling factor twice.
This manifests as predictions that are consistently too small by a
factor of (1 – dropoutRate).
Too much dropout
Applying too high a dropout rate, especially in smaller networks,
can prevent the model from learning anything useful. If your model
is underfitting, try reducing the dropout rate.
Memory leaks
In our simple implementation, we store the dropout mask for
backpropagation. In a production system with many layers, these
masks can consume significant memory. Consider clearing them
after backpropagation if you’re rolling out your own Dropout code.
Uneven distribution
Random dropout should follow a binomial distribution. If you

--- Strana 463 ---
implement it with a simple threshold on uniform random values,
check that you’re not introducing subtle biases.
To debug dropout issues, try these approaches:
Temporarily set the dropout rate to 0 and see if your model
converges. If it does, gradually reintroduce dropout.
Print the proportion of 0s in your dropout masks to verify it
matches your intended dropout rate.
Look at activations before and after dropout to ensure the scaling
is working correctly.
Check gradients flowing through Dropout layers during
backpropagation to confirm they’re properly masked and scaled.
Now that you’ve built dropout from scratch, you’ll have a much
deeper appreciation for what’s happening under the hood when you
use high-level libraries such as Keras or TensorFlow. Speaking of
which, in the next section, we’ll see how to implement dropout in
Keras with just a few lines of code, using all the insights we’ve
gained so far.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 464 ---
6.3    Other Regularization Methods: L1 and
L2 Regularization
So far, we’ve explored dropout as a powerful technique to combat
overfitting. Think of dropout as randomly silencing neurons during
training, forcing the network to build redundancy and more robust
feature detection. But dropout isn’t the only tool in our regularization
toolkit.
In this section, we’ll turn our attention to two other important
regularization techniques: L1 and L2 regularization. These
approaches tackle overfitting from a different angle—instead of
randomly shutting down neurons, they put constraints on the
magnitude of the weights themselves. At their core, both L1 and L2
regularization add an extra term to our loss function that penalizes
large weights. The mathematical approach is straightforward. If our
original loss function is denoted as Loriginal, our regularized loss
becomes
where  controls how much we care about the penalty compared to
our original objective. A larger \lambda means we’re more concerned
about keeping weights small than minimizing the original loss.

--- Strana 465 ---
6.3.1    L1 Regularization (Lasso)
L1 regularization, also known as Least Absolute Shrinkage and
Selection Operator (Lasso), adds a penalty equal to the absolute
value of the weights. Mathematically, we add this term to our loss
function:
This simple modification creates some interesting and highly useful
effects on how our model learns. The most notable characteristic of
L1 regularization is its tendency to push weights exactly to 0,
effectively removing certain features from consideration. While L2
regularization reduced the weights of less important features, L1
regularization is like a harsh judge who says, “If that feature isn’t
absolutely necessary, don’t use it at all.”
Consider a situation where you’re trying to predict house prices, and
you have dozens of potential factors—number of bedrooms, location,
square footage, age of the house, and even more specific details like
the color of the front door or the type of doorknobs. L1 regularization
helps you identify which features actually matter by setting the
weights for irrelevant features (perhaps doorknob type) to exactly 0,
while maintaining nonzero weights for important features such as
location and square footage. This feature selection property makes
L1 particularly valuable when you suspect many of your inputs might
be irrelevant or redundant. It leads to sparse models—models that

--- Strana 466 ---
only use a subset of available features—which are often easier to
interpret and can be more efficient to deploy.
On the other hand, L2 regularization also has a nice mathematical
property: It works particularly well when you have correlated
features. For example, if both “square footage of living space” and
“number of rooms” help predict house prices (and they’re obviously
related), L2 will distribute the importance between them rather than
arbitrarily picking one over the other.
6.3.2    Elastic Net: Combining L1 and L2
What if we want the best of both worlds—the feature selection
properties of L1 and the stability benefits of L2? Enter Elastic Net,
which simply combines both penalties:
Elastic Net gives us fine-grained control over regularization by letting
us adjust the relative importance of L1 versus L2 penalties. It’s like
having two different teachers in the classroom—one focused on
removing distractions entirely and another on making sure everyone
participates without anyone being too dominant.
This hybrid approach shines in scenarios where you have many
correlated features but suspect only some are truly relevant. For
instance, in genomic studies where thousands of genes might be
measured but only a small subset actually influence the trait being

--- Strana 467 ---
studied, Elastic Net can identify groups of related important genes
rather than arbitrarily selecting one representative from each
correlated group (as L1 might do) or spreading importance too thinly
across all of them (as L2 might do).
6.3.3    When Not to Use Regularization
Now that we’ve explored the powerful regularization techniques in
our arsenal, let’s talk about when to put these tools back on the
shelf. Regularization isn’t always the answer, and knowing when to
avoid it is just as important as knowing how to apply it. The first and
most obvious scenario is when you’re already facing underfitting.
Adding regularization to a model that’s struggling to capture the
underlying patterns in your data is like giving low calorie diet advice
to someone who’s already underweight. If your training loss is high
and your model can’t even fit the training data well, adding
regularization will only make the problem worse.
Very small datasets present another case where regularization might
do more harm than good. When data is scarce, your model needs to
squeeze every bit of information from the limited examples available.
Regularization, by design, restricts the model’s capacity to fit the
data perfectly. With very small datasets, the risk of overfitting is
naturally reduced because there’s simply not enough data to
memorize. In these cases, you might find better performance by
letting your model use its full capacity without regularization
constraints.

--- Strana 468 ---
There are also situations where interpretability is your primary
concern. L1 regularization can be helpful here because it creates
sparse models, but sometimes you need to retain all features to
understand their relationships properly. For instance, in medical
research, removing certain variables through aggressive
regularization might eliminate factors that doctors need to see, even
if they only have a small effect on the prediction. It’s like a detective
needing to consider all the evidence, not just the most compelling
pieces.
Interpretability is a very active area in modern deep learning
research. Modern models work so well that they are being used in
almost all domains you can think of. The issue though is that
researchers and engineers aren’t really sure why and how the
results are so accurate. Interpretable machine learning is an active
area of research that aims to create tools and methods for figuring
out why the models are working and what different learned weights
mean, as well as to improve the models in the process.
[+]  Interpretable Machine Learning
I find the area of interpretability to be highly interesting. While it’s
beyond the scope of this book, I highly recommend you check out
the work by Chris Olah (https://colah.github.io) as an introduction
to this area.
Finally, consider your domain knowledge. If you have strong prior
information that all of your features are relevant, regularization might

--- Strana 469 ---
be unnecessarily discarding valuable information. For example, if
you’ve carefully crafted a set of financial indicators for stock
prediction based on years of economic theory, you probably don’t
want regularization to arbitrarily zero out some of these hard-won
features.
6.3.4    Practical Considerations: Dropout vs. L1/L2 in
Neural Networks
While understanding L1 and L2 regularization is essential for your
machine learning toolkit, it’s worth noting that dropout has become
the dominant regularization technique for deep neural networks in
practice. The reason lies in computational efficiency and
convenience. Both L1 and L2 require careful tuning of the
regularization strength parameter . Finding the optimal  often
involves running multiple training sessions with different values,
which becomes prohibitively expensive for large neural networks that
might take days or weeks to train once, let alone multiple times.
Dropout, by contrast, typically works well with default settings
(dropping 20%–50% of neurons), making it more of a plug-and-play
solution. It also integrates naturally into the forward and backward
passes of neural network training without requiring additional
hyperparameter searches.
That said, in smaller models or when you have specific goals such
as feature selection, L1 and L2 regularization remain valuable tools.
Many practitioners even combine techniques—using dropout

--- Strana 470 ---
between layers while also applying a small L2 penalty on the
weights. It’s important to understand the strengths and limitations of
each approach, allowing you to make informed choices based on
your specific needs rather than blindly applying the same technique
to every problem. Regularization is both art and science—it requires
not just mathematical understanding but also intuition developed
through practice. This intuition can be developed by repeatedly using
it in actual code. So, let’s do such an implementation in the next
section.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 471 ---
6.4    Applying Regularization in Keras
In this section, we’ll take a look at how both L2 regularization and
dropout can be applied in Keras. Adding these powerful
regularization techniques to your models is surprisingly
straightforward.
6.4.1    Implementing L2 Regularization in Keras
In Keras, adding L2 regularization is refreshingly easy, as shown in
Listing 6.5.
from tensorflow.keras.layers import Dense
from tensorflow.keras.regularizers import l2
# Adding L2 regularization to a Dense layer
x = Dense(units=128, 
          activation='relu',
          kernel_regularizer=l2(0.001))(inputs)  
Listing 6.5     L2 Regularization in Keras
That’s it! One parameter, and you’ve transformed your model. The
kernel_regularizer=l2(0.001) argument tells Keras to apply L2
regularization to the layer’s weights (but not biases) with a
regularization strength of 0.001. You can visit the official
documentation of Keras to take a look at other options that are

--- Strana 472 ---
available for regularization here:
https://keras.io/api/layers/regularizers.
6.4.2    Dropout in Keras
Finally, let’s see how we can implement dropout in Keras with just a
few lines of code. The beauty of Keras is that it handles all the
complex machinery we explored earlier, wrapping it in a clean,
intuitive interface that lets us focus on designing our architecture
rather than managing implementation details.
In Keras, adding dropout to your model is remarkably
straightforward. It’s akin to installing a quality control checkpoint
between assembly lines in a factory. Each checkpoint randomly
inspects some products and lets others pass through without
scrutiny. Take a look at how we can create a simple neural network
with Dropout layers in Listing 6.6.
from tensorflow.keras.models import Sequential
from tensorflow.keras.layers import Dense, Dropout
import numpy as np
# Create a simple model with Dropout
model = Sequential([
    # Input layer
    Dense(128, activation='relu', input_shape=(784,)),  
    # Dropout layer with 30% rate
    Dropout(0.3),                                       
    Dense(64, activation='relu'),                       
    Dropout(0.2),                                       

--- Strana 473 ---
    Dense(10, activation='softmax')                     
])
# Compile the model
model.compile(
    optimizer='adam',
    loss='sparse_categorical_crossentropy',
    metrics=['accuracy']
)  
Listing 6.6     Dropout Usage in Keras
That’s it! With these few lines, we’ve created a network that
automatically applies dropout during training. Notice how we place
the Dropout layers directly after the Dense layers we want to
regularize. The parameter we pass to Dropout(0.3) indicates the
fraction of neurons that will be randomly deactivated during each
training pass—in this case, 30% of the neurons in the first hidden
layer. When we train this model, Keras handles all the complexity
behind the scenes. During each training batch, it randomly selects
different neurons to deactivate, forcing the network to learn
redundant representations. But here’s the really clever part—when it
comes time to make predictions, Keras automatically switches to
using all neurons with appropriately scaled weights. You don’t need
to write any additional code to handle this transition between training
and inference behaviors.
There are a few key options for the Dropout layer that are worth
knowing:

--- Strana 474 ---
rate
This is the fraction of units to drop, typically between 0.2 and 0.5.
Higher values mean more aggressive regularization but might
slow down learning.
seed
If you want reproducible results, you can set a random seed to
ensure the same neurons are dropped in each run.
noise_shape
This allows you to specify the shape of the binary dropout mask,
giving you finer control over which dimensions get dropped.
For most applications, you’ll only need to adjust the dropout rate.
Finding the right rate often requires experimentation. Too little
dropout, and your model might still overfit. Too much, and it might
struggle to learn patterns at all. One common pattern is to use higher
dropout rates for larger layers (those with more neurons) and lower
rates for smaller layers. You can also experiment with gradually
increasing dropout rates as you go deeper into the network.
Let’s see a complete example of training our model with dropout in
Listing 6.7.
# Generate some dummy data
# 1000 examples, 784 features
x_train = np.random.random((1000, 784))  
# 10 classes
y_train = np.random.randint(10, size=1000)  
# Train the model

--- Strana 475 ---
history = model.fit(
    x_train, y_train,
    epochs=10,
    batch_size=32,
    validation_split=0.2
)  
Listing 6.7     Using Dropout with Dummy Data
When you run this code, you’ll notice something interesting in the
training metrics. Initially, the training accuracy might be lower than
you’d expect for such a simple dataset. That’s dropout at work!
During training, the network is deliberately handicapped by having
some neurons turned off. Sort of like if you ask a football team to
play with only 7 players instead of 11, performance will suffer.
But when evaluation time comes on the validation set, Keras
automatically switches to using all neurons with scaled weights.
You’ll often see a significant gap between training and validation
performance, with validation surprisingly outperforming training. This
isn’t a bug—it’s a sign that dropout is working as intended. Your
model is learning to be robust.
Remember, the whole point of regularization isn’t to achieve the
highest possible training accuracy. It’s to build a model that
generalizes well to new, unseen data. Dropout helps us achieve that
by preventing our network from becoming too reliant on any specific
neuron.

--- Strana 476 ---
In the next section, we’ll explore other forms of regularization
available in Keras and discuss strategies for combining them
effectively.
6.4.3    Beyond Basic Dropout: Specialized Variants
While standard dropout has proven remarkably effective across
many architectures, it sometimes introduces unexpected
complications in specific network designs. As we continue to refine
our understanding of neural networks, researchers have developed
specialized dropout variants to address these unique challenges, as
we’ll discuss in the following sections.
The Challenge with Self-Normalizing Networks
Try to picture a beautiful fountain with multiple levels, where each
basin perfectly controls the water flow to the next. The water
pressure at each level stays consistent, creating a harmonious
system. Now, what happens if you randomly block some of the water
spouts? The carefully balanced pressure throughout your fountain
system becomes disrupted.
This is similar to what happens in self-normalizing neural networks
that use Scaled Exponential Linear Unit (SELU) activation functions.
These networks are designed to maintain a specific statistical
distribution of activations across layers—essentially keeping the
“water pressure” steady throughout the network. Standard dropout

--- Strana 477 ---
disrupts this carefully balanced system by randomly zeroing
activations.
AlphaDropout: Preserving the Statistical Character
AlphaDropout offers an elegant solution to this problem. Instead of
simply setting values to 0, which shifts the mean and variance of the
layer, AlphaDropout replaces dropped values with noise that
maintains the layer’s statistical properties. Let’s take a look at a
model using AlphaDropout in Listing 6.8.
from tensorflow.keras.models import Sequential
from tensorflow.keras.layers import Dense, AlphaDropout
# Create a self-normalizing neural network with AlphaDropout
model = Sequential([
    Dense(128, activation='selu', input_shape=(784,)),
    AlphaDropout(0.2),  # Maintains mean and variance of SELU 
activations
    Dense(64, activation='selu'),
    AlphaDropout(0.3),
    Dense(10, activation='softmax')
])  
Listing 6.8     AlphaDropout in Keras
What makes AlphaDropout special is its mathematical design. When
using SELU activations, our networks develop a particular statistical
property—activations tend to have a mean of 0 and variance of 1
(what statisticians call the standard normal distribution). It’s
specifically designed for networks using SELU activation functions. If

--- Strana 478 ---
you’re building a self-normalizing neural network with SELU
activations, AlphaDropout should be your regularization method of
choice. Its parameter options are virtually identical to standard
dropout as shown in Listing 6.9.
AlphaDropout(
    rate=0.2,  # Fraction of units to drop
    seed=None  # Optional random seed for reproducibility
)  
Listing 6.9     AlphaDropout Settings
Like standard dropout, AlphaDropout operates only during training
and is automatically disabled during evaluation and prediction
phases.
Other Specialized Dropout Variant
The Keras ecosystem offers several other specialized dropout
variants worth knowing about:
SpatialDropout 1D/2D/3D
These variants drop entire feature maps rather than individual
neurons, particularly useful in convolutional networks where
adjacent pixels have high correlation. We’ll return to these in the
next chapter after we’ve covered another type of layer.
GaussianDropout
Instead of binary dropout, this applies multiplicative Gaussian
noise to the inputs, achieving a similar regularizing effect with
different statistical properties.

--- Strana 479 ---
GaussianNoise
This adds zero-centered Gaussian noise to the inputs, serving as
a form of data augmentation rather than dropout.
Each variant addresses specific challenges in neural network
architectures, giving you a powerful toolkit for regularization. As we
explore more complex architectures in later chapters, we’ll see how
these specialized techniques can be vital for optimizing advanced
models.
The power of Keras is that it makes these sophisticated techniques
accessible through simple, consistent interfaces. Just like how
modern cameras abstract away the complex physics of photography,
Keras allows you to focus on the architecture of your network while it
handles the mathematical intricacies under the hood. One issue
remains though: How do we figure out the dropout rate when we’re
actually applying dropout?
6.4.4    Finding the Perfect Dropout Rate: A Systematic
Approach
So far, we’ve talked about dropout rates as if they were values you
should just intuitively know. “Use 0.2 here, maybe 0.5 there”—but
where do these numbers come from? The truth is, finding the ideal
dropout rate is a bit like finding the perfect amount of spice in a
recipe. Too little, and your model might still overfit. Too much, and
your network might struggle to learn anything useful. In practice, the
optimal dropout rate depends on many factors:

--- Strana 480 ---
The complexity of your dataset
The depth and width of your network
The amount of training data available
The specific patterns your network needs to learn
Rather than relying on rules of thumb or intuition, we can let
systematic experimentation find the answer for us. This is where
Keras Tuner comes to our rescue, allowing us to try multiple dropout
rates and see which one yields the best performance.
Let’s see how we can systematically search for the best dropout rate
using Keras Tuner. You might have to install the Tuner using the
following command:
pip install keras-tuner  
If you’re in Google Colab or in a Jupyter Notebook, you can issue the
magic command:
!pip install keras-tuner  
The code begins by loading the MNIST dataset, as shown in
Listing 6.10, which contains images of handwritten digits. We’ve
done this a few times already, so we’ll go through it quickly. The
complete code for this section can be seen in the book resources
page on https://recluze.net/keras-book in the notebook 06-03-keras-
tuner.
import keras
import keras_tuner as kt

--- Strana 481 ---
from keras import layers
from keras.datasets import mnist
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
(X, y), (_, _) = mnist.load_data()
X = X.reshape(X.shape[0], -1) / 255.0  
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = \
      train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.2)  
Listing 6.10     Loading and Shaping the Data
This section loads the MNIST dataset, normalizes pixel values to
[0,1] by dividing by 255, and splits data into 80% training and 20%
testing sets with a fixed random seed for reproducibility. Then, we
get to the heart of hyperparameter tuning, which is defining which
aspects of the model should be adjustable. The build_model function
shown in Listing 6.11 creates a neural network with tunable
hyperparameters.
# A model-building function that takes a hyperparameter object
def build_model(hp):
    model = keras.Sequential()
    
    # Add our first layer with tunable units
    model.add(layers.Dense(
        units=hp.Int('units_1', min_value=32, \
              max_value=128, step=32),
        activation='relu',
        input_shape=(784,)
    ))
    
    # Add our first Dropout layer with a tunable rate

--- Strana 482 ---
    model.add(layers.Dropout(
        rate=hp.Float('dropout_1', min_value=0.2, \
                               max_value=0.4, step=0.1)
    ))
    
    # Output layer
    model.add(layers.Dense(10, activation='softmax'))
    
    # Compile the model
    model.compile(
        optimizer=keras.optimizers.Adam(),
        loss='sparse_categorical_crossentropy',
        metrics=['accuracy']
    )
    
    return model  
Listing 6.11     Building the Model for Parameter Tuning
This function defines a neural network with the following:
A tunable first Dense layer where the number of neurons (units)
can vary from 32 to 128 in steps of 32
A tunable Dropout layer where the dropout rate can range from 0.2
to 0.4 in steps of 0.1
A fixed output layer with 10 neurons (one for each digit) and
softmax activation
The hp parameter is a hyperparameter object provided by Keras
Tuner that allows us to define searchable parameters. For each
parameter, we specify the following:

--- Strana 483 ---
A unique name (e.g., units_1 or dropout_1)
The range of values to search (min_value to max_value)
The step size between values
The model uses Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU) activation for the
hidden layer and softmax for the output layer, which is standard for
classification tasks. It’s compiled with the Adam optimizer and sparse
categorical cross-entropy loss function that we’ve already seen
previously.
Once we’ve defined our model structure and tunable parameters, we
set up and run the hyperparameter tuning process, as shown in
Listing 6.12.
# Create a tuner with our model builder
tuner = kt.Hyperband(
    build_model,
    objective='val_accuracy',
    max_epochs=10,
    factor=3,
    directory='dropout_tuning',
    project_name='mnist_dropout'
)
# Start the search
tuner.search(X_train, y_train, 
             epochs=30,
             validation_split=0.2)  
Listing 6.12     Keras Tuner Execution

--- Strana 484 ---
This sets up a hyperband tuner, which will find the optimum values
for us, with these specifications:
Uses our build_model function as a template
Aims to maximize validation accuracy (val_accuracy)
Trains models for a maximum of 10 epochs in its final round
Prunes underperforming models at a level of aggression
determined by the factor of 3
The results of optimum hyperparameter search are stored in a
directory called dropout_tuning under the project name
mnist_dropout. The search method initiates the hyperparameter
search by following these steps:
It trains on our training data (X_train, y_train).
Each model can train for up to 30 epochs.
Of the training data, 20% is set aside for validation during training.
After the search completes, we retrieve and use the best
hyperparameters through the code shown in Listing 6.13.
# Get the best model and hyperparameters
best_hps = tuner.get_best_hyperparameters(num_trials=1)[0]
print(f"Best dropout rate for first layer: 
{best_hps.get('dropout_1')}")
print(f"Best units for first layer: {best_hps.get('units_1')}")  
Listing 6.13     Getting Keras Tuner Results

--- Strana 485 ---
The code extracts the best hyperparameters based on validation
accuracy. The get_best_hyperparameters method returns an ordered
list of hyperparameter sets, with the best-performing configuration
first. By specifying num_trials=1, we retrieve only the single best
result. The code then prints both the optimal dropout rate and the
optimal number of units (neurons) found for the first layer. The output
of the tuner when I ran it is shown in Listing 6.14. For this run, the
best dropout rate it found was 0.2 and the number of units was 128.
These values represent the hyperparameter combination that
produced the highest validation accuracy during the tuning process.
Trial 3 Complete [00h 00m 10s]
val_accuracy: 0.9292708039283752
Best val_accuracy So Far: 0.9512500166893005
Total elapsed time: 00h 00m 35s
Search: Running Trial #4
Value             |Best Value So Far |Hyperparameter
128               |128               |units_1
0.3               |0.2               |dropout_1
Best dropout rate for first layer: 0.2
Best units for first layer: 128  
Listing 6.14     Results of the Keras Tuner
We can use these optimal values to construct our final model,
knowing it has been specifically tuned for this dataset with the ideal
dropout rate and neuron count in the first layer. As you can see, we

--- Strana 486 ---
can optimize any parameter value, including the number of neurons
in the layer. This systematic approach to hyperparameter
optimization gives us confidence that we’re using dropout effectively,
neither under-regularizing nor over-regularizing our model.
[+]  Hyperparameter Tuning in Production
Once the best values of hyperparameters are found, the model is
updated to just use the parameter values instead of the hp
parameter. For instance, the preceding model will be replaced with
the following:
model.add(layers.Dense(128, activation='relu', \
                            input_shape=(784, )))
model.add(layers.Dropout(0.2)) 
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 487 ---
6.5    Summary
This chapter examined regularization techniques to solve overfitting
in machine learning models. It began by explaining overfitting and
underfitting through examples of polynomial features and model
complexity, introducing regularization terms as a solution. The
chapter then explored dropout, presenting its concept, mechanics,
and implementation details to prevent neurons from co-adapting. It
covered L1 and L2 regularization methods, explaining their
mathematical foundations and appropriate use cases. The final
section demonstrated practical implementations of these techniques
in Keras, including code examples for L2 regularization, Dropout
layers, and specialized dropout variants. The chapter concluded with
systematic approaches for finding optimal dropout rates for different
model architectures. We’re now in the position to move on to more
advanced models and techniques, starting with a powerful type of
model in the next chapter that’s especially good at working with
images. All the fundamentals we’ve built until now will be reused time
and again to support us.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 488 ---
7    Convolutional Neural Networks
In this chapter, we’ll explore convolutional neural networks
(CNNs) and their revolutionary impact on computer vision. We’ll
investigate how convolutional layers detect patterns while
minimizing parameters and explore some other types of
commonly used layers. Through our case study, you’ll see how
these components unite into a powerful image classification
system, gaining the intuition needed to design effective CNNs
that process visual information similar to our own visual
systems.
Look at your smartphone recognizing faces in photos, or think about
how self-driving cars detect road signs. Behind these remarkable
capabilities lies a special kind of neural network we’ll be exploring in
this chapter—one that revolutionized how computers understand
images.
So far, we’ve built a foundation with fully connected neural networks
—those intricate webs where every neuron connects to every other
neuron in adjacent layers. We’ve seen how they learn by adjusting
weights through gradient descent and how techniques such as
dropout can prevent them from memorizing instead of learning.
However, when confronted with images, these networks face

--- Strana 489 ---
significant challenges. Consider trying to process a typical
smartphone photo with a fully connected network. Each photo
contains millions of pixels, and connecting every pixel to every
neuron creates an enormous number of connections. Not only does
this require massive computational resources, but as we’ll see in this
chapter, the dense connectivity pattern makes these networks
particularly vulnerable to a severe problem we’ll explore shortly.
This chapter introduces a specialized architecture that overcomes
these limitations. We’ll start from familiar ground—our understanding
of fully connected networks—and gradually build up to this new
approach that has transformed computer vision. First, we’ll examine
why traditional fully connected networks struggle with image data,
particularly focusing on how their structure leads to not only a
computation issue but also that of hampering learning itself.
Next, we’ll explore the building blocks of this new architecture. Rather
than connecting every input to every neuron, we’ll discover how using
localized connections and sharing weights across the image creates
a more efficient and effective system for processing visual
information. We’ll build up an understanding of the key components
that make this possible without assuming any prior knowledge of how
they work.
Perhaps the most practical section comes next, where we tackle what
I call the “shapes problem.” This is the perplexing issue that confuses
nearly every beginner: keeping track of how data dimensions
transform as information flows through these networks. I’ve seen
students spend hours troubleshooting their models simply because a

--- Strana 490 ---
tensor’s dimensions were incorrect, so we’ll develop a powerful but
concise strategy for understanding and managing these
transformations.
Finally, we’ll bring everything together in a comprehensive case study,
building a complete image classification system. You’ll create a model
that serves as the foundation for real-world applications.
By the end of this chapter, you’ll have both a conceptual
understanding of this powerful neural network architecture and the
practical skills to implement it. The concepts you learn here will serve
as building blocks for even more advanced techniques in later
chapters.
7.1    Introduction to Convolutional Neural
Networks
Let’s begin our exploration of the neural network architecture that
gave computers the ability to see and understand the visual world by
looking at what’s wrong with our existing architectures.
7.1.1    The Limitation of Fully Connected Networks
We’ve spent the previous chapters exploring fully connected
networks (FCNs), those interconnected layers of neurons where
every neuron connects to every other neuron in adjacent layers.
These networks have shown remarkable capabilities, but they come

--- Strana 491 ---
with inherent challenges that limit their effectiveness, especially as
they grow deeper. Let’s now step back and consider what happens in
these fully connected networks during training. At the heart of our
neural network’s learning process lies the sigmoid activation function
(or similar “squishing” functions) that we’ve been using. This function
takes any input and transforms it into a value between 0 and 1,
creating a smooth, S-shaped curve that helps our neurons make
decisions about whether to “fire” based on their inputs.
While this squishing property is useful for stabilizing our network’s
outputs, it introduces a subtle but significant problem. Not only does
the sigmoid function restrict outputs to between 0 and 1, but its
derivative, which tells us how quickly the function changes at any
point, is also bounded between 0 and 1. In fact, the derivative of the
sigmoid function reaches its maximum value of 0.25 at the center
(when the input is 0) and trails off toward 0 as we move away in
either direction. This becomes clear when we look at the

--- Strana 492 ---
mathematical expression for the sigmoid function and its derivative,
both of which are shown in Figure 7.1.
Figure 7.1     Sigmoid Activation Function and Its Derivative
The sigmoid function is defined as 
 and its
derivative as 
. When we plot this
derivative, we see that it peaks at 0.25 when x = 0 (i.e., 
)
and approaches 0 as x moves toward either positive or negative
infinity. This means that the sigmoid function is most sensitive to
changes when its input is near 0 and becomes increasingly
insensitive as the input moves away from 0.
This limitation might seem minor at first glance, but it becomes
critically important when we consider how neural networks learn
through backpropagation. When our network makes a prediction and
calculates the resulting error, that error needs to be communicated
backward through the network to adjust the weights. This process

--- Strana 493 ---
relies on the chain rul e from calculus, which tells us how to calculate
derivatives through composed functions. To understand this clearly,
consider that each layer in a neural network actually takes inputs,
performs some operations (multiplying, adding, and applying an
activation function), and produces outputs. Mathematically, we can
view each layer as a function that transforms data.
If we have a network with three layers, we can denote the network as
a composition of functions:
Here, 
, 
, and 
 are the functions computed by each layer. When
we want to find how sensitive our network’s output is to a change in a
particular weight in the first layer, we need to apply the chain rule.
Let me illustrate this with a simple calculus example. Consider two
simple functions: g( x) = x2 and h( u) = 3 u + 1. If we compose them
to get 
 = 
, and we want to find 
, the
chain rule tells us the following:
Let’s compute this as follows: 
 as the derivative of 3 u +
1 + 3 and 
 as the derivative of x2 = 2 x, so
In neural networks, this same principle applies, but with many more
functions composed together. The gradient of the loss with respect to
a weight in the first layer requires us to multiply derivatives across all

--- Strana 494 ---
subsequent layers. This last sentence is all that matters here. There
are several multiplications of derivatives with each other. In a
multilayer network, we’re essentially dealing with functions of
functions, as shown in Figure 7.2. To calculate how a weight in an
early layer affects the final output, we need to multiply the derivatives
of each layer in between.
Figure 7.2     Fully Connected Network (FCN) with Back Propagation
If each derivative is at most 0.25 (as with the sigmoid function), what
happens when we multiply several of these small numbers together?
The result gets exponentially smaller. If we have, say, 10 layers, and
we multiply 0.25 ten times, we end up with a minuscule value of
approximately 0.0000095—effectively 0 for computational purposes.
This phenomenon is what we call the vanishing gradient problem. As
we backpropagate through many layers, the gradient, which guides
our weight updates, becomes so small that the earliest layers in the
network receive practically no update signal. It’s as if we’re trying to

--- Strana 495 ---
whisper a message through several walls, and by the time it reaches
beyond the last wall, the sound is so faint that it’s completely
inaudible.
Fully connected networks are particularly susceptible to this vanishing
gradient problem because of their dense connectivity pattern. Each
neuron connects to every neuron in the previous layer, which means
during backpropagation, gradients flow through all these connections,
getting multiplied by small derivatives at each step. The math
becomes even more troublesome when we consider that these
multiplications occur not just layer by layer but connection by
connection. In a fully connected layer with 100 neurons connecting to
another layer with 100 neurons, we have 10,000 connections, each
potentially contributing to gradient shrinkage.
7.1.2    The Learning Standstill
The practical implication of vanishing gradients is straightforward but
severe: Our network stops learning effectively. Remember that in
gradient descent, we update our parameters (weights and biases)
using
where  is our learning rate and is multiplied with the gradient of our
loss function with respect to our parameters. If this gradient
approaches 0 due to the vanishing gradient problem, the second term
in our update rule also approaches 0, leaving us with

--- Strana 496 ---
In other words, no meaningful update occurs. The weights in the
earlier layers of our network remain virtually unchanged, regardless
of how much error the network produces. It’s as if these layers are
frozen in time, unable to learn from their mistakes. What makes this
situation particularly frustrating is that it creates a learning dead end
that’s remarkably resistant to our usual solutions. At this point, it
doesn’t matter how large our loss value is because even enormous
prediction errors won’t generate sufficient gradients to travel back
through all of those layers. It doesn’t matter how much data we have
because even with millions of perfectly labeled examples, the network
can’t extract meaningful patterns if the learning signal can’t reach the
early layers. It doesn’t matter if we simplify or complicate our model
architecture as the fundamental mathematics of the vanishing
gradient remains the same.
Perhaps most insidiously, the weights in these early layers remain
stuck at or near their random initialization values. Remember that
when we first create a neural network, we typically initialize weights
with small random values. Without meaningful updates, these random
patterns never evolve into useful feature detectors. It’s trying to build
a sophisticated image recognition system but being unable to
progress beyond random pixel shuffling in the critical early processing
stages.
This a practical barrier that prevented researchers from successfully
training deep neural networks for many years. No matter how much

--- Strana 497 ---
data we feed into such a network, if the gradients vanish, the network
can’t learn from that data.
7.1.3    Solving the Vanishing Gradient Problem
Now that we understand the vanishing gradient problem that plagues
deep networks with sigmoid activations, let’s discuss the first major
innovation that helped overcome this limitation. The solution came
from a surprisingly simple idea: What if we used a different activation
function?
Enter the Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU), which we’ve mentioned earlier
in the book. Unlike the sigmoid function with its elegant S-curve,
ReLU is refreshingly straightforward:
That’s it! ReLU simply takes an input and returns either that same
value (if it’s positive) or 0 (if it’s negative). Visually, it looks like a bent
line that hugs the horizontal axis for negative inputs and then shoots
upward at a 45-degree angle for positive inputs. ReLU and its
derivative are shown in Figure 7.3.
Figure 7.3     ReLU and Its Derivative

--- Strana 498 ---
This simple function sparked a revolution in neural networks. But
why? Let’s discuss its advantages. First, ReLU tackles the vanishing
gradient problem head-on. Its derivative is either 1 (for positive
inputs) or 0 (for negative inputs). When backpropagating through a
ReLU network, those 1s don’t shrink the gradient signal like the tiny
values from sigmoid derivatives. You might wonder that ReLU isn’t
squishing values between 0 and 1. Is it still a squishing function?
Absolutely! While the term squishing function made intuitive sense for
sigmoid, the broader concept is about introducing nonlinearity. ReLU
still creates a threshold (at 0) that determines whether a neuron fires
or not. Without this nonlinearity, our neural networks would just be
glorified linear regression models, unable to learn complex patterns.
This is one of the reasons that the term activation function has gained
more traction over the squishing function term recently.
ReLU brings additional benefits too. It’s computationally efficient—just
a simple max operation between 0 and the input. This matters when
you’re running networks with millions of neurons. It also tends to
create sparse activations (many neurons output 0), which helps with
feature specialization and efficient representation. However, ReLU
isn’t perfect. Its most notorious issue is the dying ReLU problem. If a
neuron’s weights are updated such that its inputs always fall in the
negative range, it will always output 0, and its gradient will also be 0,
meaning it stops learning entirely.
To address these (and some other) limitations, researchers
developed several variants. One of the most successful is the
Gaussian Error Linear Unit (GeLU), which has become a favorite in

--- Strana 499 ---
modern language models and other cutting-edge networks. The
GeLU function can be approximated as
Intimidating formula aside, GeLU essentially creates a smooth curve
that resembles ReLU but with some key differences. Instead of a
hard cutoff at 0, GeLU gradually attenuates negative values based on
their magnitude, informed by ideas from probability theory. Take a
look at Figure 7.4 for what GeLU appears like.
Figure 7.4     GeLU and Its Derivative
Consider a neuron using GeLU as being more thoughtful about
negative inputs. Rather than immediately dismissing them as ReLU
does, it considers: “How negative is this input? Should I let some of
this information through?” This nuanced approach allows GeLU
networks to learn more complex representations.
GeLU offers several advantages:
Avoids the dying neuron problem by allowing gradients to flow
even for negative inputs
Makes optimization more stable via its smooth nature
Often leads to better performance in very deep networks

--- Strana 500 ---
Maintains computational efficiency similar to ReLU
[»]  Effect of Minor Changes in Deep Learning Models
The success of GeLU in models such as BERT and GPT
demonstrates how seemingly small changes to activation functions
can have outsized impacts on model performance. It’s a reminder
that in neural networks, the details matter tremendously. A single
character change in your Keras code can make a world of
difference.
Both ReLU and GeLU represent crucial steps in solving one part of
the deep learning puzzle. By choosing activation functions with better
gradient properties, we’ve cleared one obstacle on our path to
building effective deep networks. However, the problem of densely
connected layers still remains, and that’s where the architecture
changes we explore next come into play.
7.1.4    Dense vs. Sparse Connections
We’ve tackled one part of our vanishing gradient problem by
introducing activation functions that don’t shrink our gradients to
microscopic values. But we still have another challenge to address:
the everything-connected-to-everything architecture of fully
connected networks. Think about what happens in these densely
connected networks: Each neuron is like a social butterfly with
hundreds or thousands of connections. While this might seem

--- Strana 501 ---
powerful—giving each neuron access to all possible information—it
actually creates a tangled web that’s difficult to train effectively. It’s
like being at a party where everyone is shouting at once; extracting
meaningful signals becomes nearly impossible.
To solve this problem, we need to look back at a mathematical
operation that’s been around for centuries, quietly helping scientists
in fields from signal processing to physics: the convolution operator.
The word convolution might sound intimidating, but it’s actually a
beautifully simple idea with a profound impact on how we process
information. Unlike matrix multiplication, where every element
interacts with every other element, convolution creates local, focused
interactions—more like conversations between small groups of
neighbors rather than a chaotic town hall meeting.
The Convolutional Operation Explained
Let me walk you through how convolution works with a concrete
example. Assume we have a 5×5 image represented as a matrix:
Now, let’s say we have a small 3×3 filter (sometimes called a kernel):
To apply convolution, we slide this filter across our image, one step at
a time. So, at step 1, [1 0 -1] will be placed over the matrix values of
[10 20 30], which is the second row of the filter on the first three

--- Strana 502 ---
elements of the second row of the matrix, and so on. At each position,
we multiply each filter value with the image pixel it overlaps and then
sum all these products. It’s similar to placing a stencil over different
parts of our image and calculating a weighted average of the covered
pixels. A visual representation of this operation is shown in Figure 7.5.
Figure 7.5     The Convolution Operator with a Single Kernel
Let’s make this concrete by computing the first output value. We
position our filter over the top-left 3×3 portion of our image:

--- Strana 503 ---
That’s our first convolution output value that goes in (0, 0) of our
output matrix! We then slide our filter one step to the right and repeat
the process. The full output of this convolution operation would be a
3×3 matrix (smaller than our original 5×5 because the filter needs to
fit completely within the image). There will be no “hanging” filter
operations. That’s all there is to the operation. This simple operation
leads to some powerful results. You can see an interactive demo
we’ve created for you to play around with different values on the
book’s web page and on the resources page at
https://recluze.net/keras-book in the 07-05-conv-demo link.
The Magic of Filters: Blurring and Edge Detection
Let’s take a look at some practical examples that demonstrate why
this operation is so powerful. Think of convolution filters as different
lenses for your camera that each reveal something unique about the
image you’re examining. First, let’s look at how we can blur an image
using a Gaussian filter. This isn’t simply for creating those dreamy,
soft-focus photos; it’s a crucial preprocessing step that helps reduce
noise and unnecessary details. A Gaussian blur filter is inspired by
the bell-shaped Gaussian distribution. It creates a gentle, weighted
average where the center pixels matter most and the influence fades
as we move outward. A typical 3×3 Gaussian blur filter might look like
this:

--- Strana 504 ---
Notice how these values add up to 1 (16/16), ensuring our image
maintains its overall brightness. In addition, the center value (4/16) is
the largest, with the values gradually decreasing as we move outward
—just like a tiny bell curve. It’s asking a group of neighbors about
their opinion but giving more weight to those who live closest to you.
The result is a more balanced, consensus view that smooths out
extreme opinions—much like how Gaussian blur smooths out
extreme pixel values.
Now, for another example, let’s take a look at edge detection. While
blurring can help us remove unnecessary details, sometimes what we
really want is to highlight where significant changes occur in an image
—the edges. Edge detection is fundamental to how computers
understand images, helping them distinguish between objects and
recognize shapes.
One of the most common edge detection filters is the Sobel operator.
Unlike our previous examples, Sobel filters are directional, so they
detect edges oriented in specific directions. Here’s a Sobel filter for
detecting horizontal edges:
This filter highlights places where pixel values change significantly as
we move from top to bottom. When there’s a significant change from
top to bottom, we get a negative value in output. This negative value
indicates a strong edge because there’s a significant change from

--- Strana 505 ---
lighter values at the top to darker values at the bottom. If we were to
apply this filter across an entire image, we’d end up with a new image
that highlights horizontal edges, with stronger edges appearing as
brighter or darker pixels depending on the direction of the change.
[+]  Where Are These Numbers Coming From?
Don’t worry about where these specific numbers in the filters are
coming from. It took experts from computer vision and image
processing field decades to come up with these precise values.
We’ll see in a while that we don’t have to come up with all of these
values. In fact, we don’t even have to know them. We’re just
looking at them as an example to fully understand the underlying
operation.
These edge-detecting filters serve as the foundation for how
convolutional networks “see” images. In the early layers of these
networks, many of the filters naturally evolve to become edge
detectors during training, automatically discovering what we manually
designed in these examples.
Implementing Raw Convolution Through Code
Let’s take a look at some code that helps us understand how this
works exactly. Listing 7.1 shows the code that retrieves and
processes an image for analysis. It fetches an image from a URL
using the requests library and then opens the image data with the
Python Imaging Library (PIL). The code converts the color image to

--- Strana 506 ---
grayscale using the 'L' mode, which simplifies the image by
representing each pixel as a single intensity value rather than RGB
channels. Finally, it transforms the grayscale image into a numerical
array that can be manipulated mathematically. This numerical
representation in img_array enables various computational operations
such as edge detection, feature extraction, or input preparation for
machine learning models. The complete code for this section can be
seen in the book resources page on https://recluze.net/keras-book in
the notebook 07-01-conv-basics, as well as on the book’s official
web page.
from io import BytesIO
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from PIL import Image
import requests
# Load image from URL
url = "https://recluze.net/kb/building.jpeg"
response = requests.get(url)
img = Image.open(BytesIO(response.content))
# Convert to grayscale
gray_img = img.convert('L')
img_array = np.array(gray_img)  
Listing 7.1     Loading an Example Image for Applying Convolutions
Next, we create a function shown in Listing 7.2 that takes a filter (or
kernel) and applies convolution to it. We’ll code the actual convolution
filter later. This listing simply takes the input and the convolved output
and displays it in a plot.

--- Strana 507 ---
# If you want to try different kernels, you can use this 
function
def apply_kernel(kernel_name):
    if kernel_name in kernels:
        result = apply_convolution(img_array, 
kernels[kernel_name])
        result = np.clip(result, 0, 255).astype(np.uint8)
        plt.figure(figsize=(10, 5))
        plt.subplot(1, 2, 1)
        plt.imshow(img_array, cmap='gray')
        plt.title('Grayscale Image')
        plt.axis('off')
        plt.subplot(1, 2, 2)
        plt.imshow(result, cmap='gray')
        plt.title(f'After {kernel_name.replace("_", " 
").title()} Filter')
        plt.axis('off')
        plt.tight_layout()
        plt.show()
        return result 
    else:
        print(f"Kernel '{kernel_name}' not found.")  
Listing 7.2     Taking a Kernel, Applying Convolution, and Displaying the Result
To actually perform the convolution, we first prepare the inputs as
shown in Listing 7.3. The code creates an empty output array with the
same shape as the original image to store the results. It then applies
padding to the input image using NumPy’s pad function with constant

--- Strana 508 ---
mode, which adds 0s around the borders. This padding is necessary
because when the kernel is positioned at the image edges, it would
otherwise extend beyond the image boundaries. The added 0 buffer
allows the convolution operation to process every pixel in the original
image while keeping the spatial relationships intact.
def apply_convolution(image, kernel):
    # Get dimensions
    image_height, image_width = image.shape
    kernel_height, kernel_width = kernel.shape
    # Calculate padding
    pad_height = kernel_height // 2
    pad_width = kernel_width // 2
    # Create output array
    output = np.zeros_like(image)
    # Apply padding to the input image
    padded_image = np.pad(image, ((pad_height, pad_height), \
                   (pad_width, pad_width)), mode='constant')
    # ... function continues in next listing  
Listing 7.3     Preparing Inputs for Convolution
The convolution operation itself is shown as continued code within
this function in Listing 7.4. This code implements the core of the
convolution operation through nested loops. For each pixel position in
the original image, it performs these steps:
1. Extracts a region from the padded image that’s the same size as
the kernel, centered on the current pixel position. This region of

--- Strana 509 ---
interest moves pixel by pixel across the entire image as the loops
progress.
2. Applies the kernel to this region through element-wise
multiplication (region * kernel), which means each corresponding
element in the region and kernel are multiplied together.
3. Calculates the sum of all of these multiplied values and assigns
this single value to the corresponding pixel in the output image.
This sum represents how well the pattern defined by the kernel
matches the local image region.
The operation continues until every pixel in the original image has
been processed, resulting in a transformed image where certain
features (determined by the kernel) have been enhanced or detected.
Notice that we’re using multiple loops here which will be inefficient.
    # Apply convolution
    for i in range(image_height):
        for j in range(image_width):
            # Extract the region of interest
            region = padded_image[i:i+kernel_height, \
                                      j:j+kernel_width]
            # Apply the kernel
            output[i, j] = np.sum(region * kernel)
    return output
kernels = {
    'identity': np.array([[0, 0, 0], [0, 1, 0], [0, 0, 0]]),
    'edge_detection': np.array([[-1, -1, -1], [-1, 8, -1], [-1, 
-1, -1]]),
    'sharpen': np.array([[0, -1, 0], [-1, 2, -1], [0, -1, 0]]),

--- Strana 510 ---
    'gaussian_blur': np.array([[1, 2, 1], [2, 4, 2], [1, 2, 1]]) 
/ 16,
}
result = apply_kernel('gaussian_blur')  
Listing 7.4     Applying the Convolution
When we apply this gaussian_blur kernel to an input, the output will
be slightly blurred, as shown in Figure 7.6.
Figure 7.6     Applying a Convolution Filter to an Image
[ ! ]  Inefficiency in the Implementation
In practice, we’ll never roll out our own convolution code but use
pre-optimized libraries such as TensorFlow to calculate it for us.
These libraries will use the underlying GPU libraries such as the
CUDA Deep Neural Network library (cuDNN) to apply highly
efficient parallel processes to do the calculation.
An efficient implementation of this operation becomes necessary as
input size increases. With fully connected networks, each additional
input pixel creates new connections to every neuron in the next layer,

--- Strana 511 ---
causing an exponential growth in parameters. In contrast, convolution
maintains a fixed number of parameters regardless of input size.
Number of Parameters in Convolution
The parameter efficiency of a convolution operation comes from two
key properties. First, each filter has a fixed size (typically small, e.g.,
3×3 or 5×5) that doesn’t change when the input grows. Second, we
reuse exactly the same filter weights across the entire input by sliding
the filter across it. To make this concrete, when we apply a 3×3 filter
to a small 28×28 image (like those in the MNIST digit dataset), we
use just nine parameters per filter. If we then move to high-resolution
1000×1000-pixel images, a fully connected layer would require
millions more parameters, but our convolutional filter still uses just
those same nine parameters. This remarkable property means that
our filter learns to detect patterns regardless of the image size. The
filter that detects edges in a thumbnail will detect the same edges in a
billboard-sized image. This scaling property has profound implications
for how neural networks process visual information. It’s why we can
train a network on smaller images but apply it to larger ones without
retraining every parameter.
There’s also an interesting connection between convolution and other
mathematical operations. If you look at the code implementation of
convolution, you might notice striking similarities to the dot product
operation. Both involve element-wise multiplication followed by
summation. In fact, convolution can be implemented efficiently using

--- Strana 512 ---
highly optimized matrix multiplication routines, which is one reason
modern GPUs excel at these operations.
This connection to fundamental linear algebra operations hints at
deeper mathematical patterns that recur throughout machine
learning. The same principles that make convolution so effective will
reappear later when we explore transformers—the architecture
behind today’s most powerful language models. Both approaches
leverage the power of focused, weighted combinations of inputs, just
applied in different contexts and with different structural constraints.
7.1.5    From Convolution to Neural Networks: The
Conv2D Layer
Now that we’ve explored the power of convolutions, this section will
showcase how this useful operation transforms our neural networks.
So far, we’ve become familiar with dense layers, where every neuron
connects to every neuron in the next layer to create our fully
connected architecture. But now, we’re going to introduce a new
member to our neural network family: the two-dimensional
convolutional layer (Conv2D layer). The key difference lies in how
these layers process information. Instead of the familiar matrix
multiplication operation (
) we used in dense layers, Conv2D uses
our newly discovered convolution operation. This shift completely
transforms how information flows through our network. The layer
doesn’t treat each pixel as an isolated input. Instead, it applies filters

--- Strana 513 ---
across the entire image, scanning for patterns just like we did in our
manual convolution examples.
Each filter slides across the input image, performing its convolution
operation at each position. The result isn’t a single number but
another “image”—a feature map that highlights where certain patterns
appear in the original image. If our filter is designed to detect vertical
edges, the output feature map will light up wherever those edges
appear. The shape of these feature maps depends on several factors:
the input size, filter size, and something new called stride, which is
how many pixels we move each time we slide our filter.
Strides in Convolution
Let’s work through some examples to make this concrete: Assume we
have a simple 5×5 input image and a 3×3 filter, as shown in
Figure 7.5. If we use a stride of 1—moving our filter 1 pixel at a time
—how large will our output feature map be? Starting at the top-left
corner, we can place our 3×3 filter on positions (0,0), (0,1), (0,2), then
to the next row as (1,0), and so on. The last valid position would be
(2,2) because if we go any further, our filter would extend beyond the
input image. This gives us a 3×3 output feature map (3 positions
horizontally × 3 positions vertically).
Now, let’s scale up to a real example. If we have a 28×28 MNIST digit
image and apply a 3×3 filter with a stride of 1, our output shape
becomes 26×26. We can position our filter at coordinates (0,0)
through (25,25) for a total of 26 positions in each dimension. The

--- Strana 514 ---
output shrinks because our filter needs to fit completely within the
input image.
What if we use a stride of 2, jumping 2 pixels each time we move our
filter? This cuts our output dimensions roughly in half. With our 28×28
input, the filter positions would be (0,0), (0,2), (0,4), and so on. This
gives us a 13×13 output feature map. We can verify this: starting from
0, we can jump by two 13 times (0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20,
22, 24) while keeping our 3×3 filter within the 28×28 image. Keras
calculates this output size automatically for us, but you need to spend
some time understanding it to avoid any debugging headaches when
you get to larger networks.
Multiple Filters: Introducing Channels
Let’s do something a little more interesting and closer to the real
world. Instead of using just one filter, we can apply multiple filters to
the same input image. Each filter searches for different patterns—
perhaps one detects horizontal edges, another vertical edges, and a
third diagonal lines. If we apply two different filters to our 28×28
MNIST image with a stride of 1, we get two 26×26 feature maps. We
can stack these maps together to form a 26×26×2 output. That third
dimension—2, in this case—is what we call the number of channels
or feature maps. This is conceptually similar to how color images
work. A color image typically has three channels—red, green, and
blue—stacked together. But in convolutional layers, each channel
represents a different feature detected by a unique filter.

--- Strana 515 ---
So far, we’ve been applying convolution with filters that have
predefined values—like our edge detectors and blurring filters. What
if we let the network itself discover what filters would be most useful?
From Handcrafted to Learned Filters
When we build a CNN, we don’t actually program the specific values
in each filter. Instead, we initialize these values randomly—essentially
starting with filters that do nothing meaningful. One filter might
randomly brighten some pixels and darken others in a chaotic
pattern. Another might create strange, haphazard distortions.
This might seem counterintuitive. How can random noise possibly
help us classify images? The key lies in what happens next. Once
we’ve initialized our random filters, we push an image through our
network on the forward pass. The image gets transformed by each
convolutional layer, with each filter extracting meaningless patterns
(at first). Eventually, after passing through several layers, the network
makes a prediction about what’s in the image.
In the beginning, this prediction is almost certainly wrong. A network
trying to recognize handwritten digits might confidently declare that
an 8 is actually a 1—it’s basically guessing randomly because its
filters haven’t learned anything yet.
But here’s the crucial part: We calculate how wrong the network is
(the loss), and then we propagate this error backward through the
network. This backward pass calculates how each filter value
contributed to the mistake, and then—drawing on the gradient

--- Strana 516 ---
descent algorithm, we explored in Chapter 3—it adjusts these values
in the direction that reduces the error. Remember the core idea of
gradient descent? We find the gradient (the direction of steepest
increase) of our loss function with respect to each parameter and
then take a small step in the opposite direction to reduce the loss.
This same principle applies here, but now our parameters are the
values in each convolutional filter.
After this adjustment, each filter changes slightly, moving a tiny bit
closer to extracting a pattern that’s actually useful for the
classification task. We repeat this process thousands of times with
many examples, and gradually, these initially random filters transform
into purposeful feature detectors.
Some filters might indeed evolve to detect edges, just like the ones
we designed manually. Others might become specialized for
detecting curves, corners, textures, or more abstract patterns that
humans might not even recognize as meaningful. The network
discovers what features are most useful for distinguishing between
the classes it’s trying to predict. It’s like letting a group of artists
discover their own styles through trial and error. We don’t tell them
exactly what techniques to use; they figure out what works best
through practice and feedback.
The Beauty of Sparse Connectivity
This approach of learning filters through gradient descent combines
the best of both worlds. We get the benefit of sparse connectivity—

--- Strana 517 ---
each output value depends only on a small neighborhood of input
pixels, not the entire image. This dramatically reduces the number of
parameters compared to fully connected networks. At the same time,
we’re using better activation functions such as ReLU that don’t
squash gradients to microscopic values. This helps the learning
signal propagate more effectively through the network, especially as
we add more layers. The result is a network that can learn much
faster and more effectively than its fully connected counterparts. It
uses the inherent structure of images—the fact that nearby pixels are
related and distant ones less so—while still discovering the features
that matter most for the specific task at hand.
Take a moment to appreciate how this connects to our earlier
discussions of gradient descent. The intuition we developed in
Chapter 3—about parameters adjusting to minimize loss—is exactly
what powers these convolutional networks, just with a different set of
parameters and a different network structure. The fundamental
principles remain the same, showcasing the beautiful coherence of
deep learning’s mathematical foundations. We were able to take our
grayscale images and extract several feature maps out of them.
The Third Dimension: Understanding Image Channels
We’ve been working with simple matrices as our inputs, which is
perfect for grayscale images where each pixel has just one intensity
value. But the colorful world around us demands more nuance. This
is where channels come in as the secret ingredient that adds richness
and depth to our image representation.

--- Strana 518 ---
Think about how your digital camera captures a sunset. It doesn’t
simply record a single value for each point in the scene. It captures
separate intensity values for red, green, and blue light. These three
primary colors, when combined in different proportions, can recreate
virtually any color our eyes can perceive.
In an RGB image, each pixel location doesn’t hold just one value but
three:
The red channel records how much red light is present at each
position.
The green channel captures the intensity of green.
The blue channel measures the blue component.
When we stack these three matrices together, we get a more
complex structure—a 3D array that computer scientists call a tensor.
It’s having three separate but aligned grayscale images, each one
capturing a different aspect of the scene.
[Ex]  An Example of Channels
In a picture of a vibrant red apple, the pixels in the red channel
have high values, while the green and blue channels show lower
values. The sky portion of an image might have high values in the
blue channel but lower values in the red and green channels. You
can actually look at these channels in any photo editor. I highly
recommend you try doing that to get a deeper understanding of
how they are represented.

--- Strana 519 ---
This shift from a simple matrix to a multi-channel tensor requires us to
think more carefully about how we organize our data. If our image is
28×28 pixels with three color channels, we’re actually working with a
tensor of 28×28×3 values.
But things can get a bit tricky here. Different deep learning
frameworks organize these dimensions in different ways. TensorFlow
and Keras (which we’ll be using) typically organize image tensors in
the shape of (Height, Width, Channels), also known as the HWC
format, so our example is a tensor of shape (28, 28, 3). Some
libraries use the (Channels, Height, Width) convention, also known as
CHW. In that case, the shape will become (3, 28, 28). This ordering
might seem arbitrary, but it’s crucial to keep track of it. When you’re
debugging shape errors (and trust me, you’ll encounter these), the
first thing to check is whether you’re aligning your dimensions
correctly. Always pay attention to the shape information in error
messages and when printing tensor shapes as this information is a
compass that helps you navigate through the multidimensional
landscape of your model.
Filtering Across Channels
Now that our inputs have become three-dimensional, our filters need
to match. When working with a multi-channel input, each filter must
have the exact same number of channels as the input, as shown in
Figure 7.7. For an RGB image, this means each filter becomes a 3D
tensor itself. If we’re using a 3×3 filter, it actually becomes a 3×3×3
filter—the extra dimension corresponding to the three color channels.

--- Strana 520 ---
You can visualize this as three separate 3×3 filters, one for each
channel, working together as a single unit. How does convolution
work with these 3D tensors? The process, shown concisely in
Figure 7.7, is a natural extension of what we’ve already learned.
When applying a three-channel filter to a three-channel input, we do
the following:
1. Position the filter at a location in the image.
2. For each channel, multiply the filter values with the
corresponding input values.
3. Sum up all of these products—not just across each 2D slice but
across all three channels.
4. Recognize that this single scalar value becomes one element in
our output feature map.
Contrast this operation with the single channel one shown previously
in Figure 7.5. This is a crucial point: No matter how many channels
our input has, a single filter always produces a single channel in the
output. The multi-channel filter collapses the input channels into a
single value at each position. In addition, if the input is a three-
channel one, the filter applied to it must also be a made of three
channels.

--- Strana 521 ---
If we want our output to have multiple channels, we need to apply
multiple filters. Each filter creates its own feature map, and these
maps stack together to form a multi-channel output.
Figure 7.7     Applying Convolution on a Three-Channel Input
Let’s consider the concrete example shown in Figure 7.7. We have an
RGB input image of shape (5, 5, 3)—5 pixels tall, 5 pixels wide, with
three color channels. We apply a 3×3×3 filter with a stride of 1. The
output will be a single-channel feature map of shape (3, 3, 1). If we
add a second 3×3×3 filter, we get two single-channel feature maps,
which stack to create an output of shape (3, 3, 2). An interactive
demo of three-channel convolution is available on the book resources
page at https://recluze.net/keras-book in the link 07-06-conv-3-
channel-demo and on the book’s official web page.

--- Strana 522 ---
Refer back to the code given in Listing 7.1 to Listing 7.4. We can
modify it to use a three-channel input instead. When we load the
image, we make a minor change so that the image isn’t converted to
grayscale. The code will look like Listing 7.5.
# Load image from URL
url = "https://recluze.net/kb/building.jpeg"
response = requests.get(url)
img = Image.open(BytesIO(response.content))
# Convert to numpy array (now with 3 channels)
img_array = np.array(img)  
Listing 7.5     Loading a Three-Channel Image to NumPy
The apply_kernel function remains the same as in Listing 7.2 but the
apply_convolution function is updated to that shown in Listing 7.6.
This code creates a convolution operation that performs channel
mixing across a color image. It starts by preparing a single-channel
output array, recognizing that we’re transforming a multi-channel
image into a grayscale result. Each color channel gets padded
individually and stored in a list for processing. Then comes the heart
of the operation—nested loops that visit every pixel position in the
image. At each position, the code extracts regions from all color
channels, applies the same kernel to each one, and accumulates
their contributions into a single sum.
This channel mixing is like blending ingredients in a recipe—
information from red, green, and blue channels combines to create a
single, rich output value. When a filter finds a pattern in any channel,

--- Strana 523 ---
it contributes to the final result. This approach mirrors how
convolutional layers in neural networks often work, where a single
filter produces one feature map by integrating information across all
input channels.
The final output represents the collective response of all channels to
the filter pattern, capturing the essence of the image’s structure in a
single grayscale representation.
def apply_convolution_rgb(image, kernel):
    # Get dimensions and calculate padding as before.
    # Create single-channel output array
    output = np.zeros((image_height, image_width))
    # Pad each channel
    padded_channels = []
    for c in range(channels):
        padded_channel = np.pad(image[:,:,c],
                             ((pad_height, pad_height), 
                              (pad_width, pad_width)),
                             mode='constant')
        padded_channels.append(padded_channel)
    
    # Apply convolution with channel mixing
    for i in range(image_height):
        for j in range(image_width):
            pixel_sum = 0
            # Sum contributions from all channels
            for c in range(channels):
                # Extract the region of interest
                region = padded_channels[c][i:i+kernel_height, 
                                            j:j+kernel_width]

--- Strana 524 ---
                # Apply the kernel and add to running sum
                pixel_sum += np.sum(region * kernel)
            
            # Store the combined result
            output[i, j] = pixel_sum
    return output  
Listing 7.6     Applying Three-Channel Convolution
Running this code, we see that the input image isn’t really blurred but
somehow a mix of all three input channels, as shown in Figure 7.8.
Figure 7.8     Applying a Three-Channel Convolution Filter
However, the more important task here is to understand the shapes
of inputs and outputs. Listing 7.7 shows what we get for the shapes of
inputs, kernels, and output.
print(img_array.shape)
print(kernels['identity'].shape)
print(result.shape)
# Output 
# (473, 473, 3)

--- Strana 525 ---
# (3, 3)
# (473, 473)  
Listing 7.7     Shapes of Different Arrays When Performing Convolution
You’ll notice that the resulting output is 473×473 because the input
was 473×473×3, that is, with three channels. We also had a filter of
size 3×3 with a stride of 1. With padding, our input became 474×475,
and striding over it with a value of 1 would produce 473 steps in a
row. If we were to go ahead and apply another filter here, the result
would become 473×473×2. If we have a hundred filters, the output
would be 473×473×100. Please stop here and make sure this
calculation makes sense. It will be of paramount importance as we
move to more complex models.
[+]  Number of Channels vs. Number of Filters
This distinction between the number of channels in a filter and the
number of filters is subtle but important. A single filter must match
the input channel depth, but it always creates just one output
channel. The number of filters determines how many channels your
output will have.
In practice, CNNs typically use dozens or even hundreds of filters in
each layer, creating rich, multi-channel representations that capture
diverse aspects of the input. Each filter specializes in detecting
different patterns, giving the network a comprehensive vocabulary for
understanding images. Let’s explore this in further detail in the
context of Keras next.

--- Strana 526 ---
[»]  Practice with Shapes
It’s a really good idea to make sure you know exactly how these
numbers work. These shapes are an essential part of any modern
network, and you should internalize these calculations. As an
example, try to calculate the output shape if we change the stride
here to 2. Later, in Section 7.4, you’ll see how to make Keras show
exact shapes to us.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 527 ---
7.2    Convolutional Layers, Pooling Layers
and Fully Connected Layers
The convolution layer is used in a particular way inside neural
networks. Figure 7.9 shows a typical convolutional neural network
(CNN or ConvNet).
Figure 7.9     A Convolutional Neural Network
We’ll cover the different types of layers shown in this figure one by
one in the following sections. There are even some points we need
to consider for the fully connected or dense layers that we missed
earlier. So, let’s begin from the top where we have the input image
being fed to the first convolution layer.
7.2.1    Core Implementation of a Convolutional Layer
The code for creating this is shown in Listing 7.8. Let’s walk through
what’s happening under the hood. First, we create our digital canvas
—an image array with a specific shape using NumPy’s random()
function. This results in a 4D tensor of shape (1, 1000, 1000, 3).

--- Strana 528 ---
This 4D tensor might look complex, but let’s break it down:
1. The first dimension 1 is our batch size. Neural networks typically
process multiple images simultaneously for efficiency, but here,
we’re feeding just one image through our layer. Think of batch
size as the number of paintings an art critic examines at once—
in this case, just a single masterpiece we just created.
2. The next two dimensions 1000, 1000 represent the height and
width of our image in pixels—a high-resolution square image
with a thousand pixels in each direction.
3. The final dimension 3 represents the color channels, similar to
red, green, and blue in a standard digital photo, combining to
create the full color spectrum.
In real-world applications, we’d typically use larger batch sizes (e.g.,
32 or 64) to process multiple images in parallel, which dramatically
speeds up training. The batch size of 1 here keeps our example
simple and focused on understanding the convolutional operation
itself.
Now comes the interesting part—our convolutional layer—through
layers.Conv2D. Here, we’re creating two pattern detectors (our
filters), each looking through a small 3×3 window. But notice that
special strides=(2, 2) parameter. With a stride of 2, our filter doesn’t
examine every possible position in the image. Instead, after looking
at one 3×3 patch, it skips 1 pixel and moves to the next position.

--- Strana 529 ---
The padding='same' parameter tells the system to add a border of 0s
around our image so that the filter can be centered on edge pixels
too. This ensures our filter can see the entire original image,
including the edges.
We process our image through this layer using the layer name as a
function call. This is a powerful feature of Keras where every layer is
callable allowing for easy experimentation. So, when we compute
the output simply through conv_layer(dummy_data) our 1,000×1,000
image transforms into a 500×500 representation. The output shape
becomes (1, 500, 500, 2)—half the original dimensions in both
height and width.
What if we changed the padding to 'valid' instead of 'same'? With
valid padding, we don’t add any 0s around the border of our image.
This means our filter can only be applied where it fits completely
within the original image. The 3×3 filter needs to stay entirely inside
the boundaries, so it can’t be centered on edge pixels. The result
would be even more dimension reduction. The output shape would
become slightly smaller than half the original—approximately (1,
499, 499, 2) instead of (1, 500, 500, 2).
This subtle but important difference shows how padding choice
affects not only edge preservation but also your network’s
architecture dimensions. It’s not necessary to memorize how to do
these calculations, but it does help to internalize what difference they
make to the shapes as these are critical for large-scale networks. In
any case, irrespective of the padding type, what’s fascinating is that

--- Strana 530 ---
this random downsampling allows our filters to simultaneously learn
to detect meaningful patterns while reducing the image size. Please
take a look at the 07-02-layer-types notebook on
https://recluze.net/keras-book for the full code listing.
import numpy as np
import tensorflow as tf
from keras import layers
# Create dummy data, shape:(batch_size, height, width, 
channels)
# Here we have 1 sample of 1000x1000 image with 3 channels
dummy_data = np.random.random((1, 1000, 1000, 3))
# Create a Conv2D layer with 2 filters of size 3x3
conv_layer = layers.Conv2D(
    filters=2,               # Number of output filters
    kernel_size=(3, 3),      # Size of the convolution window
    strides=(2, 2),          # Stride of the convolution
    padding='same',          # Try 'valid' too
    activation=None,         # No activation function
    use_bias=True            # Include bias term
)
# Feed the data through the conv layer
output = conv_layer(dummy_data)
# Print input and output shapes
print(f"Input shape: {dummy_data.shape}")
print(f"Output shape: {output.shape}")
# Output --------

--- Strana 531 ---
# Input shape: (1, 1000, 1000, 3)
# Output shape: (1, 500, 500, 2)  
Listing 7.8     Applying the Conv2D Layer from Keras
Finally, let’s consider the number of parameters our network has to
learn here as well as the shapes of our tensors. First, our code in
Listing 7.9 and its output tell us there are exactly 56 parameters in
our convolutional layer, that is, 
 weights per filter.
Plus, each filter gets its own bias term—think of this as the filter’s
baseline sensitivity. With 27 weights, one bias per filter, and two
filters total, we get 
 total parameters.
As before, we must examine the shapes more closely so that we can
see exactly how these parameters are organized. In a Conv2D layer,
weights are stored in a 4D tensor with shape (height, width,
input_channels, filters). The indexing weights [:, :, 0, 0] are
detailed here:
[:, :]: Take all rows and columns (the full 3×3 kernel)
0: From the first input channel only
0: Of the first filter only
So, this code line shows the 3×3 kernel matrix for the first filter’s first
channel, essentially displaying how that filter responds to the first
channel of the input.

--- Strana 532 ---
[ ! ]  Inside-Out Arrangement
Notice how this indexing of weights might seem inside out. You
need some practice to get used to it. For instance, try to output all
channels for this filter. What needs to change in the code? This
arrangement of parameters is one of the most confusing aspects
of modern machine learning but is necessary for efficient
computations involving these high dimensional values.
# Print the number of parameters in the conv layer
print(f"Number of parameters: {conv_layer.count_params()}")
# Access and print the weights and biases
weights, biases = conv_layer.get_weights()
print(f"Weights shape: {weights.shape}")  # (3, 3, 3, 2)
print(f"Biases shape: {biases.shape}")    # (2,)
# Print a sample of the weights (first filter, first channel)
print("Sample weights (first filter, first channel):")
print(weights[:, :, 0, 0])
# Output ----------
# Number of parameters: 56 
# Weights shape: (3, 3, 3, 2) 
# Biases shape: (2,) 
# Sample weights (first filter, first channel): 
# [[-0.26943967 0.28036994 0.04134339] 
#   [-0.2828865 -0.29205972 0.3480931 ] 
#   [ 0.15567559 0.29582542 -0.2867809 ]]  
Listing 7.9     Number and Sample of Parameters

--- Strana 533 ---
What’s truly remarkable about this number is how efficiently
convolutional layers handle high-resolution images. If we were to
replace our convolutional layer with a single dense (fully connected)
layer containing just two neurons, the parameter count would
explode astronomically. Each dense neuron would need one weight
for every single pixel value for one channel in our input image. This
means 1000 × 1000 × 3 = 3,000,000 weights per neuron. Add a bias
term for each neuron and with two neurons, this totals (3,000,000 +
1) × 2 = 6,000,002 parameters that need to be learned. All
derivatives are going to be divided into these million boxes leaving
each box with essentially nothing—compounding the vanishing
gradient problem. With ConvNets though, we have just 56
parameters, ensuring each parameter gets a good share of the
loss’s derivative and allowing it to update in a meaningful way.
What’s more, that’s more than 100,000 times more parameters with
just two neurons! This number will also increase as the input size
increases. The number of parameters in ConvNet layer doesn’t
depend on the input size and will thus scale up efficiently. This
parameter efficiency is one of the most beautiful aspects of
convolutional layers—they can process massive images while
maintaining a compact, focused set of parameters that look for the
same patterns everywhere instead of learning separate patterns for
each pixel position.

--- Strana 534 ---
7.2.2    The Hidden Superpowers of Convolutional Layers
When we talk about convolutional layers, we often focus on their
parameter efficiency, that is, how they can handle massive images
with just a handful of weights. But that’s just the beginning of their
magic. These layers possess several remarkable properties that
make them uniquely suited for understanding visual information. In
the following sections, we’ll go over some of these in brief as they
will be very important for our discussions in later chapters as we
move to even more powerful models.
Translation Invariance: Why Your Cat Is Still a Cat, No Matter
Where It Sits
Consider what happens when you show cat photos to a young child.
Whether the cat is lounging in the center of the frame, hiding in the
corner, or perched on a windowsill, the child easily recognizes it.
This ability to recognize objects regardless of their position seems
obvious to us, but it’s actually a sophisticated cognitive skill—one
that convolutional layers naturally replicate. This property, called
translation invariance, is perhaps the most powerful feature of
convolutional layers. Because the same filter weights slide across
the entire image, a pattern detector that recognizes whiskers in the
top-left corner will also recognize whiskers in the bottom-right. The
filter doesn’t care where the pattern appears; it responds the same
way everywhere.

--- Strana 535 ---
In a traditional dense neural network, moving an object just a few
pixels would completely change which neurons process it, requiring
the network to essentially relearn the same pattern in different
locations. It’s like having thousands of specialized art critics, each
only able to evaluate one tiny spot on a canvas. With convolutional
layers, we instead have a few expert critics who examine the entire
artwork, bringing their expertise to every inch of the painting.
Hierarchical Feature Learning: From Simple Lines to Complex
Concepts
Another superpower of convolutional networks emerges when we
stack multiple layers together. Early layers typically detect simple
features such as edges, corners, and color gradients—the basic
building blocks of visual information. As we move deeper into the
network, something remarkable happens: These simple features
combine to form increasingly complex representations.
It’s similar to how you might learn a language. First, you recognize
individual letters, then common words, then phrases, and eventually
entire narratives. A deep convolutional network undergoes a similar
progression:
Layer 1 might detect edges and simple textures.
Layer 2 might combine these to recognize shapes and contours.
Layer 3 might identify more complex patterns such as eyes or
wheels.

--- Strana 536 ---
Deeper layers might recognize entire objects or scenes.
This hierarchical feature learning happens naturally from the network
architecture, creating a sophisticated visual understanding system
that mirrors how our own visual cortex processes information—from
simple to complex, concrete to abstract.
Preserving Spatial Relationships: The Power of Locality
When you look at a face, you don’t often recognize individual
features. You understand the relationships between all these
features and their nuances: eyes above the nose, nose above the
mouth, ears on the sides. These spatial relationships are crucial for
visual understanding. Convolutional layers excel at preserving these
spatial relationships. Unlike dense layers that flatten the input and
lose all spatial information, convolutional layers maintain the 2D
structure of images. This allows them to capture not only what
features are present but also where they are in relation to each
other. This property, known as spatial locality, means that nearby
pixels are processed together, preserving their relationships. It’s like
reading a book and understanding not only the individual words but
also how they’re arranged into sentences and paragraphs to convey
meaning.
Built-In Regularization: Less Overfitting, More Generalization
Perhaps most surprisingly, convolutional layers come with a built-in
resistance to overfitting. By forcing weights to be shared across all

--- Strana 537 ---
positions, we’re imposing a strong constraint on what the network
can learn. This weight sharing acts as a form of regularization,
preventing the network from becoming too specialized to training
examples and helping it generalize better to new images. It’s like
teaching someone to identify birds by focusing on general patterns
such as “wings, beak, feathers” rather than memorizing specific
examples. The constraint actually improves learning by focusing on
what truly matters rather than individual pixel values.
When we combine these properties—parameter efficiency,
translation invariance, hierarchical feature learning, spatial
awareness, and natural regularization—we get a system that’s
remarkably well-suited for visual understanding tasks. It’s no wonder
convolutional networks have revolutionized computer vision and
become a cornerstone of modern AI. In a while, we’ll put these layers
to use in a larger network, but first, let’s finish off out discussion
about the rest of the layer types shown earlier in Figure 7.9.
7.2.3    Pooling Layers: The Image Simplifiers
Consider a beautiful, high-resolution photo of a mountain landscape.
While those millions of pixels create a stunning image, your brain
doesn’t need every single pixel to recognize that that’s a mountain.
You naturally focus on key features—the triangular peak, the snow
cap, the tree line—while ignoring much of the fine detail. Pooling
layers in neural networks perform a similar kind of visual
simplification. They’re like the art of summarizing—keeping the

--- Strana 538 ---
essence while reducing the word count. Their job is elegantly simple:
Take a patch of an image, pick out the most important information,
and discard the rest.
In the most common type—max pooling—we slide a small window
(typically 2×2 pixels) across our image and keep only the brightest
(maximum) pixel value from each window. It’s like saying, “If there’s
something interesting in this neighborhood, let’s remember it, but we
don’t need to remember every house on the block.” This process
dramatically reduces the image size while preserving the most
prominent features. If a strong edge or bright spot exists somewhere
in that 2×2 window, it will survive the pooling operation, ensuring
important visual information isn’t lost.
Other pooling variants exist too. Average pooling takes the average
value of each window (like capturing the general mood of a scene
rather than just the standout moments), while min pooling keeps the
minimum values (useful for dark features against bright
backgrounds). We’ll discuss code for max pooling in the next
section, but it’s straightforward to modify it to use another variant.
Max Pooling in Action
In Listing 7.10, we’re creating a max pooling layer with a 2×2
window. The strides=None means our window will move 2 pixels at a
time (defaulting to the pool size), and padding='valid' means we’re
not adding any extra padding around the edges as before. Our
massive 1,000×1,000 image shrinks down to just 500×500—a 75%

--- Strana 539 ---
reduction in data! This is because each 2×2 patch becomes a single
pixel in the output, effectively halving both the width and height.
import numpy as np
from keras import layers
# Create dummy data - shape: (batch_size, height, width, 
channels)
# Here we have 1 sample of 1000x1000 image with 3 channels 
(like RGB)
dummy_data = np.random.random((1, 1000, 1000, 3))
# Create a MaxPooling2D layer
pool_layer = layers.MaxPooling2D(
    pool_size=(2, 2),      # Size of the pooling window
    strides=None,          # Default is same as pool_size
    padding='valid'        # No padding
)
# Feed the data through the pooling layer
output = pool_layer(dummy_data)
# Print input and output shapes
print(f"Input shape: {dummy_data.shape}")
print(f"Output shape: {output.shape}")
# Print the number of parameters in the pooling layer
print(f"Number of parameters: {pool_layer.count_params()}")
<output> 
Input shape: (1, 1000, 1000, 3) 
Output shape: (1, 500, 500, 3) 

--- Strana 540 ---
Number of parameters: 0
</output>  
Listing 7.10     Max Pooling Layer in Keras
Notice that the number of channels (three) stays the same. Pooling
operates independently on each channel, preserving the color
information while reducing the spatial dimensions. And perhaps most
remarkably, this entire operation requires zero learnable parameters.
Unlike convolutional or dense layers with their adjustable weights,
pooling layers perform a fixed mathematical operation—no learning
required. They’re like simple machines with a single function: reduce
size while preserving important features.
The Fading Role of Pooling Layers
While pooling layers were once a staple in neural network
architecture, they’ve gradually fallen out of fashion in cutting-edge
designs. They’re still perfectly functional, but researchers discovered
more sophisticated alternatives. Modern networks often opt for
strided convolutions instead. By using a convolutional layer with a
stride of 2, we can achieve the same downsampling effect while
giving the network the freedom to learn exactly how that
downsampling should happen. Rather than blindly taking the
maximum value, a strided convolution can learn which patterns are
most important to preserve. Think of it as the difference between
having a fixed rule for summarizing text (e.g., “always keep the first
sentence of each paragraph”) versus training someone to identify

--- Strana 541 ---
and preserve the most important ideas. The latter is more flexible
and potentially more effective.
Another issue with traditional pooling is that it can be too aggressive
in discarding information. Sometimes, those “unimportant” pixels
actually contain subtle patterns that would be useful for
classification. Strided convolutions and other modern approaches
can be more nuanced in what they keep and what they discard.
The philosophy in modern neural network design has shifted toward
letting the network learn every step of the process rather than hard-
coding operations such as pooling. This gives these networks more
flexibility to adapt to the specific challenges of each dataset.
That said, pooling layers haven’t disappeared entirely. They remain
valuable tools in many applications, especially when computational
efficiency is a priority or when a simple, reliable downsampling
method is all that’s needed. These remain in the form of global
pooling.
7.2.4    Global Pooling
If standard pooling is like creating a smaller, simplified version of an
image, global pooling is like distilling that image down to its absolute
essence—a handful of numbers that capture its most distinctive
features. Imagine you’re an art critic trying to describe a famous
painting. You could describe it region by region, noting the colors,
shapes, and textures in each part (similar to what we get after

--- Strana 542 ---
regular pooling). Or, you could step back and capture its signature
characteristics—“vibrant use of blue” or “swirling brushstrokes”—a
few key descriptors that summarize the entire work.
Global pooling does exactly this. It takes an entire feature map—no
matter how large—and reduces it to a single value per channel. It’s
like asking, “What’s the most important feature in this entire
channel?” or “What’s the average characteristic across this whole
feature map?” While this might sound counterintuitive, it does
actually work really well in practice on many problems. So, it’s great
to keep these types of pooling in your machine learning toolbelt. And,
just as with regular pooling, we have several flavors of global
pooling:
Global max pooling
Takes the maximum value from each feature map. It’s essentially
asking, “What’s the strongest activation anywhere in this feature
map?” This is particularly useful for detecting the presence of
specific features, regardless of where they appear.
Global average pooling
Calculates the average of all values in each feature map. This
captures the overall intensity or prevalence of each feature across
the entire image. Think of it as measuring the general mood or
atmosphere rather than picking out specific highlights.
Global sum pooling
Adds up all values across each feature map. This is less common
but can be useful in certain specialized networks where the

--- Strana 543 ---
cumulative effect of a feature matters more than its average or
maximum strength.
The most remarkable aspect of global pooling is how dramatically it
transforms our data. Let’s look at the code example shown in
Listing 7.11 to understand this point. When we apply global pooling
to our 1,000×1,000 pixel image with three channels, our million-pixel
image (1,000×1,000) has been distilled down to just three numbers
—one maximum value for each of our three channels! This is a truly
radical transformation, compressing all spatial information into a
handful of values. In addition, like regular pooling, this operation
requires zero learnable parameters. It’s a fixed mathematical
operation—find the maximum (or average) value in each channel—
with no adjustable weights or biases.
# Create a GlobalMaxPooling2D layer
global_pool_layer = layers.GlobalMaxPooling2D()
# Feed the data through the pooling layer
output = global_pool_layer(dummy_data)
# Print input and output shapes
print(f"Input shape: {dummy_data.shape}")
print(f"Output shape: {output.shape}")
# Print the number of parameters in the pooling layer
print(f"Number of parameters: 
{global_pool_layer.count_params()}")
# Output 
# Input shape: (1, 1000, 1000, 3)

--- Strana 544 ---
# Output shape: (1, 3)
# Number of parameters: 0  
Listing 7.11     Global Pooling in Code
Why Global Pooling Matters
This extreme dimensionality reduction serves several crucial
purposes in modern neural networks:
Creating fixed-size representations
No matter the input size—whether your image is 100×100 or
1,000×1,000—global pooling will always produce the same output
shape (just the number of channels). This makes it perfect for
handling variable-sized inputs.
Bridging convolutional and dense layers
After a series of convolutional and pooling operations, we often
want to connect to fully connected (dense) layers for final
classification. Global pooling creates the perfect bridge,
transforming our spatial data into a simple vector that dense
layers can work with.
Enforcing translation invariance
By keeping only the strongest activation regardless of location,
global max pooling ensures our network doesn’t care where a
feature appears—only whether it appears at all. This helps our
network recognize objects even when they move around in the
frame.

--- Strana 545 ---
Reducing overfitting
By dramatically reducing the parameter count of subsequent
layers, global pooling serves as a powerful regularizer, helping
prevent our network from memorizing training examples rather
than learning generalizable patterns.
[»]  Importance of Global Pooling
Unlike regular pooling layers, which have somewhat fallen out of
favor, global pooling remains a cornerstone of modern network
architectures. Networks such as ResNet, Inception, and
EfficientNet all use global average pooling in their final layers.
Whether we’re building a network to classify images, detect objects,
or generate new visual content, global pooling provides that crucial
step of simplification—helping our networks see the forest, not just
the trees. What’s more, we have some fine-tuned control over how
we perform this pooling. Let’s see what other variations we have for
this.
Selective Pooling: Controlling What Gets Simplified
Consider analyzing data from a time series, where preserving the
time dimension while condensing other features is crucial. This is
where axis-specific pooling comes into play as it lets us decide
exactly which dimensions to simplify and which to preserve. Before
we jump into custom pooling, let’s recall what those axis numbers

--- Strana 546 ---
actually mean in our image data. A typical image tensor has four
dimensions that are arranged like this:
Axis 0: Batch dimension (number of images)
Axis 1: Height (rows of pixels)
Axis 2: Width (columns of pixels)
Axis 3: Channels (color information)
Standard pooling operations reduce both height and width together.
Global pooling collapses both completely. But what if we want to be
more selective? To do this, instead of using prepackaged pooling
layers, we can craft our own using the lambda layer in Keras,
combined with TensorFlow’s reduction operations, as shown in
Listing 7.12.
import tensorflow as tf
# Create custom pooling layers using Lambda
# Pool across width only (axis=2)
width_pool_layer = layers.Lambda(lambda x:  \
                     tf.math.reduce_max(x, axis=2))
width_pooled = width_pool_layer(dummy_data)
# Print input and output shapes
print(f"Input shape: {dummy_data.shape}")
print(f"Width-pooled shape: {width_pooled.shape}")
# Output ---- 
# Input shape: (1, 1000, 1000, 3) 
# Width-pooled shape: (1, 1000, 3)  
Listing 7.12     Custom Pooling Layer Using TensorFlow

--- Strana 547 ---
In this code, we’re creating a custom layer that applies the
reduce_max function, specifically along axis 2—the width dimension.
(Refer to Chapter 5, Section 5.3.1, for the detailed discussion we
had on axes.) When we run this on our 1,000×1,000 image, it’s
condensed to 1,000×1 (shown as (1, 1000, 3) because the single
pixel has three channels). We’ve preserved the full height
information while completely collapsing the width, keeping only the
maximum value along each row. You might wonder why we’d want to
pool along just one dimension. There are several compelling use
cases:
Directional feature detection
Sometimes, features have a stronger orientation in one direction
than another. For instance, horizontal text lines might be better
preserved by pooling vertically but not horizontally.
Time series data
When working with time-based data (e.g., video or sensor
readings) where each frame is a 2D image, you might want to
preserve the temporal dimension while condensing the spatial
information.
Attention mechanisms
In more advanced architectures, we might want to pool across
certain dimensions to create attention weights that help the
network focus on specific parts of the input.
Creating input for specialized layers
Some network architectures require inputs with specific shapes,

--- Strana 548 ---
and axis-specific pooling can help transform our data to fit those
requirements.
Beyond the width-pooling example, we can create custom pooling
operations for any dimension:
Height pooling: lambda x: tf.math.reduce_max(x, axis=1)
Channel pooling: lambda x: tf.math.reduce_max(x, axis=3)
Multi-axis pooling: lambda x: tf.math.reduce_max(x, axis=[1, 3])
In addition, we aren’t limited to maximum operations. We can use
the following:
Average pooling: tf.math.reduce_mean()
Sum pooling: tf.math.reduce_sum()
Minimum pooling: tf.math.reduce_min()
This flexibility gives us precise control over how information flows
through our networks, allowing us to preserve exactly the
dimensions that matter most for our specific task.
7.2.5    Bringing It All Together: Fully Connected Layers
in CNNs
After our convolutional and pooling layers have worked their magic
extracting patterns from images, we need a way to make sense of all
these discovered features. This is where fully connected (dense)
layers come into play as the final piece of the CNN puzzle that

--- Strana 549 ---
transforms all those detected patterns into actual decisions. Think of
the convolutional and pooling sections of our network as incredibly
observant detectives, meticulously collecting evidence, such as
edges, textures, shapes, and more complex patterns. But collecting
evidence is just part of the job. Eventually, someone needs to look at
all the gathered clues and make a decision. That’s exactly what our
fully connected layers do.
When we add fully connected layers to our network, we’re essentially
creating a section that can see all the features our convolutional
filters have discovered everywhere in the image, all at once. While
convolutional layers focus on local patterns, fully connected layers
see the big picture, making connections between features that might
appear in completely different parts of the image.
The structure is quite simple. We typically start with a flattening
operation that takes all those 2D feature maps and stretches them
out into a long 1D vector of values. It’s similar to taking a collection
of smaller puzzle pieces and laying them all out in a row so we can
see everything at once. This flattened representation then feeds into
one or more dense layers where every neuron connects to every
value in the input.
How many dense layers should we add? It depends. Sometimes, a
single dense layer is all we need—taking the extracted features and
mapping them directly to our classification outputs. Other times, we
might include several dense layers of decreasing size, allowing the

--- Strana 550 ---
network to learn more abstract relationships between features before
making the final decision.
[+]  The Top Layer in ConvNets
The very last layer in our network is often called the “top” of the
neural network. This layer makes the actual discrimination or
classification decision. If we’re classifying images into 10
categories, our top layer will have 10 neurons, each one
representing the network’s confidence that the image belongs to a
particular class. This will be of particular importance when we later
look at more advanced techniques such as transfer learning.
It’s important to recognize the division of labor here. Everything
before the fully connected layers—our convolutional and pooling
operations—is essentially feature extraction. These layers transform
the raw pixel space into a rich feature space where important visual
patterns become prominent. The fully connected layers then perform
the discrimination task, taking those extracted features and making
decisions based on them. This separation of concerns is so powerful
that it’s become common practice to take the convolutional parts of
pretrained networks and reuse them for different tasks. Because the
feature extraction ability is so valuable and generalizable, we can
keep those parts intact while replacing just the fully connected layers
to solve new problems—a technique known as transfer learning.
We’ll return to this in later chapters, and you’ll most likely be using
this technique on a daily basis in your machine learning endeavors.

--- Strana 551 ---
And with that, we’ve completed our tour of the CNN architecture.
From the specialized pattern detectors in convolutional layers, to the
dimensionality-reducing pooling layers, to the decision-making fully
connected layers, each component plays a vital role in the network’s
overall ability to understand and classify visual information. We do
have some loose ends to tie up in these discussions. Let’s discuss
them in the context of Keras next.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 552 ---
7.3    Implementing CNNs with Keras
We’ve gone through the details of convolutional layers, exploring
how they scan images for patterns, reduce parameters through
weight sharing, and transform visual information into meaningful
features. But there are a few variations we haven’t yet explored—
different flavors of convolution that expand what these powerful
operations can do. We’ll talk through those in this section.
7.3.1    Conv2D vs. Conv1D
First, let’s talk about the difference between Conv2D and Conv1D.
We’ve been focusing on Conv2D operations, which slide their filters
across two dimensions (height and width) of our input. But what
happens when our data only has one meaningful dimension to
traverse? This becomes apparent when you consider working with
text data. Each word or character might be represented as a vector
(like a one-hot encoding, which we covered in Chapter 4,
Section 4.3.2, or an embedding, which we’ll cover later). At first
glance, this might look 2D—a sequence of vectors. But unlike
images where patterns exist in both horizontal and vertical
directions, in text, the meaningful relationships typically flow in just
one direction: the sequence of words.
This is where we must use Conv1D. Instead of sliding a 2D window
across height and width, Conv1D slides a 1D window along just one

--- Strana 553 ---
dimension—the sequence length. Each filter might be 3 or 5
positions wide, looking at small groups of words or characters at a
time. This operation is perfect for finding local patterns in sequential
data such as text, time series, or audio signals. For example, a
Conv1D filter might learn to recognize particular three-word phrases
or sound patterns that are important for classification. The key
insight is that we’re still using the same powerful convolutional
principle—applying the same filter repeatedly across different
positions—but we’re doing it in just one dimension instead of two.
7.3.2    The Opposite of Convolution: Deconvolution
Layers
Now, let’s flip things around and talk about a different variation:
deconvolutional layers (sometimes called transposed convolutions).
If standard convolutions are about condensing information,
deconvolutions are about expanding it. In a normal convolution, we
might go from a 1,000×1,000 image to a set of smaller feature maps.
But what if we want to go in the other direction? What if we need to
generate a larger, detailed output from a smaller representation?
That’s exactly what deconvolutional layers do. They work like
convolutions in reverse, taking a small input and creating a larger
output. This operation is vital in many advanced network
architectures, particularly in image generation tasks. Take a look at
the code in Listing 7.13 along with its output.

--- Strana 554 ---
import numpy as np
from keras import layers
dummy_data = np.random.random((1, 50, 50, 3))
# Create a Conv2DTranspose layer (deconvolution)
deconv_layer = layers.Conv2DTranspose(
    filters=2,               # Number of output filters
    kernel_size=(3, 3),      # Size of the convolution window
    strides=(2, 2),          # Stride of the convolution 
    padding='same',          # Padding mode
    activation=None,         # No activation function
    use_bias=True            # Include bias term
)
# Feed the data through the deconvolution layer
output = deconv_layer(dummy_data)
# Print input and output shapes
print(f"Input shape: {dummy_data.shape}")
print(f"Output shape: {output.shape}")
# Output: 
# Input shape: (1, 50, 50, 3)
# Output shape: (1, 100, 100, 2)  
Listing 7.13     Deconvolution Layer through Code
Deconvolution, implemented as Conv2DTranspose in Keras, performs
the inverse of standard convolution by expanding spatial dimensions
rather than reducing them. In our example, the layer transforms a
50×50 image with three channels into a 100×100 image with two
channels (because we have two filters). The kernel_size determines

--- Strana 555 ---
the pattern of this influence, while the filters parameter sets the
number of output channels.
[+]  Upsampling Using Deconvolution
This upsampling capability makes deconvolution essential for
generative networks, super-resolution models, and architectures
that need to reconstruct detailed outputs from compressed
representations. These are extremely useful tools in modern
machine learning, and we’ll be returning to these again in later
chapters.
Think about a network that reconstructs high-resolution images from
low-resolution inputs or one that generates realistic photos from
simple sketches. These networks need a way to expand their
representations, adding detail and dimension as they process data.
Deconvolutional layers provide this capability.
The mathematics behind deconvolutions can get complex, but
conceptually, you can think of them as spreading out each input
value across a region of the output, with the filter weights
determining how that value gets distributed. It’s like taking a rough
sketch and progressively adding more and more detail until you have
a complete picture. There’s a lot more to these discussions, but you’ll
have to wait a little for that. Right now, we’ve been talking a lot about
shapes and need to tackle an issue of particular importance.

--- Strana 556 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 557 ---
7.4    The “Shapes” Problem
There’s a moment that every machine learning practitioner dreads.
You’ve spent hours designing your neural network architecture,
carefully considering each layer, and meticulously preparing your
data. You hit run, anticipating the first training epoch to begin, and
instead an error message appears. Your model has crashed before
even starting, with a cryptic message about incompatible shapes or
shape mismatch between layers.
This shape mismatch problem is perhaps the most common
technical hurdle you’ll face when moving beyond tutorials into
creating your own models. When you’re following a book (like this
one) or working through tutorials, everything seems to work
seamlessly. That’s because what you’re seeing is the final,
debugged version—the end product of someone else’s
troubleshooting process. It’s like being given a perfectly assembled
puzzle without witnessing all the trial and error that went into figuring
out which pieces connect where. But the moment you venture into
creating your own architecture or adapting an existing one to your
specific needs, you enter a different world entirely. Suddenly, you’re
the one who needs to ensure that each neural layer correctly
interfaces with the next. You’re building the puzzle from scratch, and
not all pieces are designed to fit together.

--- Strana 558 ---
However, there’s a world of difference between a model that
produces poor results and one that won’t run at all. Poor results
mean your model is at least functioning—the data flows through it
and predictions come out, but they’re just not very good. Shape
mismatches, on the other hand, mean your model is structurally
flawed—the data simply can’t flow from one layer to the next.
These mismatches occur because neural networks process data as
tensors—multidimensional arrays with specific shapes. Each layer
expects input tensors of a certain shape and produces output
tensors of another shape. When the output shape of one layer
doesn’t match the expected input shape of the next, your model
breaks. You might be thinking that programming languages have
ways to reshape data, which is true—operations such as reshaping
and broadcasting can help in some cases. These are like adapters
for our metaphorical pipes. But there are limits to what these
operations can automatically resolve. Some shape incompatibilities
are fundamental design issues that require you to rethink your
architecture.
This problem becomes especially pronounced when working with
complex architectures such as transformers or when combining
different types of layers (convolutional, recurrent, attention-based) in
novel ways. Each of these components has its own tensor shape
requirements, and making them work together can feel like solving a
multidimensional puzzle.

--- Strana 559 ---
Understanding how to diagnose and fix shape mismatches is a
crucial skill that separates beginners from experienced practitioners.
It requires not just theoretical knowledge of how neural networks
function but also a practical understanding of how data flows through
them, how shapes transform at each step, and how to intervene
when things don’t align.
Let’s take a look at a model that deliberately contains shape
mismatches to see exactly what happens when we try to run it.
Listing 7.14 shows a seemingly reasonable CNN architecture that
attempts to classify images but contains a critical tensor shape
incompatibility. It’s highly recommended that you run this code and
spend some time with it. For ease of use, you can run the notebook
07-03-shapes-mismatch in the resources page at
https://recluze.net/keras-book.
import tensorflow as tf
from keras import layers, models
import numpy as np
# Create some dummy image data 
# 100 images of pixels with 3 color channels
dummy_images = np.random.random((100, 64, 64, 3))
dummy_labels = np.random.randint(0, 10, size=(100,))
# Build a model with a shape mismatch
model = models.Sequential([
    layers.Conv2D(32, kernel_size=(3, 3), activation='relu',
                      input_shape=(64, 64, 3)),
    layers.GlobalMaxPooling2D(),
    layers.Conv2D(128, kernel_size=(3, 3), activation='relu'),

--- Strana 560 ---
    layers.Flatten(),
    layers.Dense(10, activation='softmax')
])
# Try to compile the model
model.compile(optimizer='adam',
              loss='sparse_categorical_crossentropy',
              metrics=['accuracy'])
model.summary()
# Error produced: 
# Input 0 of layer "conv2d_83" is incompatible with the
# layer: expected min_ndim=4, found ndim=2. 
# Full shape received: (None, 32)  
Listing 7.14     A Model with a Shape Mismatch Error
When you encounter this kind of error in the real world, simply
staring at it might not immediately reveal what’s gone wrong. It’s a bit
like being handed a jigsaw puzzle with pieces that don’t quite fit
together—you need a systematic approach to find where the
mismatch begins.
Rather than trying to guess at the solution, let’s take the approach
that experienced practitioners use: Build the model step-by-step,
adding one layer at a time until we identify exactly where things
break down. Think of it as constructing a bridge piece by piece,
testing each section before adding the next. This methodical
approach helps us pinpoint exactly where our architectural design
fails, which is much more effective than trying to diagnose a fully

--- Strana 561 ---
assembled but nonfunctional structure. Let’s build the foundation, as
shown in Listing 7.15.
# Build a model with a shape mismatch
model = models.Sequential([
    layers.Conv2D(32, kernel_size=(3, 3), activation='relu',
                      input_shape=(64, 64, 3)),
])
# Try to compile the model
model.compile(optimizer='adam',
              loss='sparse_categorical_crossentropy',
              metrics=['accuracy'])
model.summary()
# Reduced Output ------
# Layer (type)          | Output Shape
# conv2d_84 (Conv2D)  | (None, 62, 62, 32)  
Listing 7.15     Building the Foundation of the Model as Step 1
So, we can see that this part is fine as our Conv layer is producing a
4D output—batch size, height, width, channel—and there’s no
problem. Then, we add another layer and see what happens using
the following code:
model.add(layers.GlobalMaxPooling2D())
model.summary()  
This is also fine as we get the expected output:
# Reduced Output ------
# Layer (type)           | Output Shape

--- Strana 562 ---
# conv2d_84 (Conv2D)     | (None, 62, 62, 32)
# global_max_pooling2d_1 | (None, 32)  
This is also fine as the GlobalMaxPooling layer is doing what it’s
supposed to be doing, that is, getting rid of the height and width
dimensions and just returning a 2D output (batch size, channel).
Finally, let’s try to add the third layer from our original model of
Listing 7.14 using the following code:
model.add(layers.Conv2D(128, kernel_size=(3, 3), 
activation='relu'))
model.summary()  
This time, we get the error as follows:
Input 0 of layer "conv2d_3" is incompatible with the layer: 
expected min_ndim=4, found ndim=2. Full shape received: (None, 
32)  
Ok great! Now that we’ve identified where our model breaks down,
let’s unravel the mystery of this shape mismatch error. The Conv2D
layer is expecting a 4D input—something with height, width,
channels, and a batch dimension. But what’s actually arriving at its
doorstep is a flat, 2D tensor that’s been transformed by our
GlobalMaxPooling2D layer.
[+]  Build Models Step-by-Step
When designing new neural network architectures, it’s generally
more flexible to build models layer by layer using the Sequential
model’s add method rather than defining all layers at initialization.

--- Strana 563 ---
This approach allows you to incrementally construct your network,
examining shapes at each step, making adjustments and
debugging as needed.
No amount of reshaping can restore what’s been lost. Once our
spatial information has been pooled away, we can’t magically
recreate it. The height and width dimensions are gone completely,
and Conv2D layers specifically need these spatial dimensions to
operate. The fundamental issue in our architecture was placing a
pooling layer before future convolutional layers. Pooling is typically
used to progressively reduce the spatial dimensions of your data as
it flows through a network, but once you’ve applied global pooling,
you’ve essentially committed to moving away from convolutional
operations. While it’s possible to upscale again from this lower-
dimensional space, that’s not what we’re going for here.
So, let’s go ahead and remove the pooling layer from the top and
recompile the model. Run the code given in Listing 7.15 to reset the
model to just one layer. Skip over the pooling layer and add the
Conv2D layer:
model.add(layers.Conv2D(128, kernel_size=(3, 3), 
activation='relu'))  
Run model.summary() to ensure everything is as expected. Finally,
add the other layers afterwards:
model.add(layers.Flatten())
model.add(layers.Dense(10, activation='softmax'))  

--- Strana 564 ---
We’ve used a Flatten() layer that simply takes all the output
dimensions of the previous layer and flattens them out in a 1D
vector. This vector, resulting from the process of flattening, can be
thought of as a dense layer except that it doesn’t have any
associated weights. It’s just a reshaping layer to facilitate the
connection between our high dimensional convolutional layers and
the single dimensional dense layers.
[»]  Going from Convolutional Layers to Dense Layers
Flatten provides one way to transition from convolutional layers to
dense layers but consider using a GlobalPooling layer instead.
This alternative approach often proves more parameter-efficient
while maintaining essential feature information. Try implementing
this variation as a learning exercise.
This debugging exercise of slowly building the model one layer at a
time highlights an important lesson in deep learning design: always
be mindful of how each layer transforms your data’s shape. Every
layer in your network needs to receive input in a format it can
process. When designing your own neural architectures, try to keep
a mental model of the tensor shapes flowing through your network.
Are there any points where the output shape of one layer doesn’t
match the expected input shape of the next?
By developing this intuition for tensor shapes, you’ll find yourself
solving complex architectural challenges long before they become
runtime errors. This skill becomes especially valuable as you move

--- Strana 565 ---
beyond tutorials and start designing custom networks for your
specific problems. Let’s combine all the lessons learned in this
chapter through a case study of image classification using
convolutional, global pooling, and dense layers, along with some
enhancements learned in earlier chapters.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 566 ---
7.5    Case Study: Image Classification
Once you understand the whole background and theory behind the
choices, the actual Keras code for performing classification is going
to be surprisingly compact. It’s like discovering that an intricate
watch mechanism you’ve spent weeks studying piece by piece can
be assembled with just a few precise movements. All of those layers,
activation functions, and tensor manipulations we’ve explored in
detail get distilled into a handful of clean, readable lines. This isn’t
magic—it’s the power of abstraction that Keras brings to the table.
The framework handles all the intricate implementation details while
exposing a clear, high-level API that maps directly to the conceptual
building blocks we’ve been discussing.
In the following case study, we’ll implement a complete CNN-based
image classifier in code that’s so concise you could write it in a
couple of minutes, yet so powerful it can recognize complex patterns
that would have seemed impossible to detect programmatically just a
decade ago. But don’t let the brevity fool you—behind each line lies
the deep understanding you’ve been developing throughout this
chapter.
Let’s examine the code in Listing 7.16, which prepares the CIFAR-10
dataset for our image classification task. This code reaches out to
Keras’s built-in datasets and retrieves CIFAR-10, a collection of
60,000 32×32 color images across 10 different categories such as

--- Strana 567 ---
airplane, automobile, and bird. The function returns two tuples: one
containing the training data and another containing the test data.
Notice that we’re renaming the standard training set to x_full and
y_full. This reveals our intention to further divide this data. The
second step does exactly that, using scikit-learn’s train_test_split
function to carve out a validation set from our training data. Keep in
mind that unlike the MNIST dataset we worked with earlier, CIFAR-
10 contains color images with three channels (RGB). So, each
image in our dataset is represented as a 32×32×3 tensor, making
this a more challenging classification task than our earlier grayscale
examples. The complete code listing is available on
https://recluze.net/keras-book in the 07-04-image-classification
notebook.
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
import keras
from keras import layers
from keras.datasets import cifar10
# Load and prepare the CIFAR-10 dataset
(x_full, y_full), (x_test, y_test) = cifar10.load_data()
# Split the full dataset into training and validation sets
x_train, x_val, y_train, y_val = train_test_split(

--- Strana 568 ---
    x_full, y_full, test_size=0.2, random_state=42
)  
Listing 7.16     Setting Up the Dataset for a CNN Model
With our dataset split into training, validation, and test sets, we now
need to prepare the data for optimal model training, as shown in
Listing 7.17. The preprocessing consists of two critical steps. First,
we normalize the pixel values. Raw images have pixel intensities
ranging from 0 to 255, but neural networks generally perform better
when their inputs are scaled to smaller ranges. By converting our
data to floating-point format and dividing by 255, we rescale all pixel
values to the range [0, 1]. This normalization helps with numerical
stability during training and often leads to faster convergence.
The second step addresses how we represent our target classes.
Initially, the classes in CIFAR-10 are represented as integers from 0
to 9. However, for multi-class classification tasks, we typically want
our model to output a probability distribution across all possible
classes. To align our ground truth with this output format, we convert
our integer labels to one-hot encoded vectors using
keras.utils.to_categorical().
Recall that one-hot encoding transforms each integer label into a
binary vector where all elements are 0 except for a single 1 at the
index corresponding to the class. For example, the class 3 becomes
[0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]. This representation allows us to use
categorical cross-entropy as our loss function, which we’ve
previously seen is well-suited for classification tasks.

--- Strana 569 ---
# Normalize pixel values to be between 0 and 1
x_train = x_train.astype("float32") / 255.0
x_val = x_val.astype("float32") / 255.0
x_test = x_test.astype("float32") / 255.0
# Convert class vectors to one-hot encoded labels
y_train = keras.utils.to_categorical(y_train, 10)
y_val = keras.utils.to_categorical(y_val, 10)
y_test = keras.utils.to_categorical(y_test, 10)  
Listing 7.17     Preprocessing Data and Preparing Output Vectors
Now, let’s analyze the model architecture shown in Listing 7.18. This
code defines a simple yet effective CNN architecture organized in
blocks. Each block doubles the number of filters while gradually
extracting higher-level features. The first layer specifies our input
shape (32×32×3) to match CIFAR-10’s color images. Note the
strategic use of padding='same' in alternating convolutional layers,
which preserves spatial dimensions while extracting features.
Instead of the traditional flattening approach, this model uses
GlobalAveragePooling2D() to reduce each feature map to a single
value, dramatically decreasing parameter count while maintaining
performance.
The output layer has 10 neurons with softmax activation, producing a
probability distribution across our 10 possible classes. The model is
compiled with Adam optimizer and categorical cross-entropy loss
function—the natural choice for our one-hot encoded labels.

--- Strana 570 ---
While traditional CNNs often include explicit pooling layers and
dropout for regularization, this initial architecture doesn’t include that.
We can expect some overfitting, but we’ll fix that later.
# Build the ConvNet model - Variation 1 
model = keras.Sequential([
    # First convolutional block
    layers.Conv2D(32, (3, 3), padding='same', 
activation='relu', 
                              input_shape=(32, 32, 3)),
    layers.Conv2D(32, (3, 3), activation='relu'),
    
    # Second convolutional block
    layers.Conv2D(64, (3, 3), padding='same', 
activation='relu'),
    layers.Conv2D(64, (3, 3), activation='relu'),
    
    # Third convolutional block
    layers.Conv2D(128, (3, 3), padding='same', 
activation='relu'),
    layers.Conv2D(128, (3, 3), activation='relu'),
    layers.GlobalAveragePooling2D(),
    
    # Output layer
    layers.Dense(10, activation='softmax')
])
# Compile the model
model.compile(optimizer='adam',
    loss='categorical_crossentropy',
    metrics=['accuracy']

--- Strana 571 ---
)
model.summary()  
Listing 7.18     Model Architecture for CIFAR-10 Classification
With our model architecture defined, we can now train and evaluate
it as shown in Listing 7.19. This code initiates the model training
process using the fit() method. We’re processing our data in
batches of 64 images, which strikes a balance between training
speed and memory usage. The fit() method trains our model for 50
epochs with batch size 64, monitoring validation performance
throughout. The returned history object tracks metrics such as loss
and accuracy, which are useful for visualizing learning curves.
After training, we evaluate on the test set to get an unbiased
estimate of our model’s performance. This final accuracy gives us a
baseline for further experimentation with different architectures or
hyperparameters.
history = model.fit(
    x_train,
    y_train,
    batch_size=64,
    epochs=50,
    validation_data=(x_val, y_val)
)
# Evaluate the model on the test set
test_loss, test_acc = model.evaluate(x_test, y_test, verbose=2)
print(f"Test accuracy: {test_acc:.4f}")
print(f"Test loss: {test_loss:.4f}")  
Listing 7.19     Training the Model and Reporting Evaluation Metrics

--- Strana 572 ---
Understanding what our CNN has learned can be challenging. One
useful approach is to visualize the convolutional filters, as shown in
Listing 7.20. This utility function extracts and visualizes learned filters
from any convolutional layer in our model. It’s designed to be
reusable across different architectures, making it a valuable tool for
model inspection and debugging. The function first retrieves the
weights from the specified layer, then normalizes them to the range
[0,1] for consistent visualization. For RGB image processing
networks, each filter has three channels, which are displayed
separately to reveal how the filter responds to different color
information.
By default, it shows up to 16 filters to prevent overwhelming
visualizations when layers contain hundreds of filters. The resulting
plots provide unique insights into what features each filter detects—
from simple edges and textures in early layers to more complex
patterns in deeper layers.
# Function to visualize convolutional filters
def visualize_filters(model, layer_name, max_filters=16):
    layer = model.get_layer(name=layer_name)
    filters, biases = layer.get_weights()
    
    # Normalize filter values to 0-1 for visualization
    f_min, f_max = filters.min(), filters.max()
    filters = (filters - f_min) / (f_max - f_min)
    
    # Plot up to max_filters from the layer
    n_filters = min(max_filters, filters.shape[3])
    plt.figure(figsize=(12, 12))

--- Strana 573 ---
    
    for i in range(n_filters):
        # Get filter
        f = filters[:, :, :, i]
        
        # Plot each channel
        for j in range(3):
            plt.subplot(4, n_filters, i + 1 + j * n_filters)
            plt.imshow(f[:, :, j], cmap='viridis')
            plt.title(f'Filter {i+1}, Channel {j+1}')
            plt.axis('off')
    
    plt.suptitle(f'Convolutional Filters in {layer_name}')
    plt.tight_layout()
    plt.close()  
Listing 7.20     Visualization Function for CNN’s Learned Filters
To use this function, simply call it with your model and the name of
any convolutional layer as in Listing 7.21. It’s highly recommended
that you spend some time here and visualize all the different layers’
filters to get used to the shapes they are producing. While individual
filter values aren’t important, studying these have often led the
world’s leading researchers to come up with new and innovative
ideas in the field of machine learning.
model.layers[0]._name = 'conv2d_1'
visualize_filters(model, 'conv2d_2')  
Listing 7.21     Visualizing the First Layer’s Features

--- Strana 574 ---
Finally, we can go ahead and get the metrics of evaluation using the
code shown in Listing 7.22.
print("Model training and evaluation complete.")
print(f"Final training accuracy: \
           {history.history['accuracy'][-1]:.4f}")
print(f"Final validation accuracy: \
           {history.history['val_accuracy'][-1]:.4f}")
print(f"Test accuracy: {test_acc:.4f}")  
Listing 7.22     Reporting the Metrics
And there you have it! The real power of Keras shines through those
eight lines of model definition code in Listing 7.18. After all our
theoretical exploration, isn’t it remarkable how such a compact
architecture can learn to recognize complex visual patterns? While
the supporting code handles necessary logistics, it’s this elegant
model definition that captures the essence of deep learning
engineering. This is the code that transforms mathematical concepts
into problem-solving tools—and mastering this interface between
theory and implementation is what makes a skilled machine learning
engineer invaluable.
[»]  A Bit of Homework
Now it’s time for you to spend some time playing with the
architecture and hyperparameters. This will help you develop
intuition about CNN architectures through experimentation. As you
modify the hyperparameters, do the following:

--- Strana 575 ---
Track how dropout affects overfitting. Start with 0.2 and try
higher values.
Compare max versus average pooling on feature preservation.
Experiment with filter sizes (3×3, 5×5, 7×7), and observe how
they capture different feature scales.
Test different stride configurations to understand their impact on
resolution and computational efficiency.
Record validation score changes with each modification.
Look for patterns in how each parameter affects model
performance and generalization. The insights gained will help you
make more informed architectural decisions in future projects.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 576 ---
7.6    Summary
In this chapter, we dove into the architecture that revolutionized
computer vision—CNNs. We explored how convolutional layers act
as specialized pattern detectors that scan images while dramatically
reducing parameter counts through weight sharing. We tackled the
critical shapes mismatch problem that every deep learning
practitioner inevitably faces, as well as covered how pooling layers
provide elegant dimensionality reduction. The ReLU and GeLU
activations emerged as our heroes in the battle against vanishing
gradients, while global pooling showed us how to distill entire feature
maps down to their essence. Through our case study, you saw these
building blocks come together to form a powerful image classification
system. Perhaps most importantly, you gained the intuition needed
to architect your own CNNs, understanding not just how these
networks operate, but why each component plays its crucial role in
helping machines see the world through patterns, just as our own
visual systems do.
In the next chapter, we’ll move on to a more flexible way of building
models in Keras that gives us much greater control over their
structure.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 577 ---
8    Exploring the Keras
Functional API
In this chapter, we’ll explore the Keras Functional API, moving
beyond the limitations of sequential models to build complex
neural architectures with explicit layer connections. We’ll
introduce powerful design patterns, including residual networks
with skip connections and multibranched models that process
information along parallel pathways. Through practical case
studies, we’ll implement cutting-edge applications such as
ResNet for classification, Siamese networks for similarity
learning, and U-Net for image segmentation. Finally, we’ll
master transfer learning, a technique that lets us repurpose
pretrained models for specialized tasks with minimal data and
computation. By the end, you’ll understand how the Functional
API transforms Keras from a simple tool into a platform for
implementing sophisticated architectures that achieve superior
performance across diverse domains.
So far in our discussions, we’ve built neural networks like assembly
lines, where data flows in a single, straight path from input to output.
This approach has served us well for many tasks, but it’s like trying

--- Strana 578 ---
to navigate a bustling city using only one-way streets. Sometimes,
we need more flexibility in how information travels through our
networks. Consider a situation in which we can build networks where
information could take multiple paths, skip ahead, or even circle
back. What if parts of our network could share what they’ve learned
with other parts? Or what if we could feed our network different types
of information simultaneously, such as combining images with text
descriptions—often called multimodal learning? These are the kinds
of powerful architectures we’ll unlock in this chapter. We’ll move
beyond the linear assembly line to create neural networks that
resemble intricate subway systems, with multiple entry points,
express lanes, and interconnected routes that all work together to
reach our destination. Because virtually every breakthrough in deep
learning over the past decade has come from these more
sophisticated network designs. The revolutionary models that can
recognize objects in images with human-like accuracy, generate
realistic images from text descriptions, or understand and translate
languages don’t use simple sequential architectures. They employ
intricate patterns of information flow that allow them to process
complex data more effectively.
Think about how your own understanding develops when learning
something new. You don’t process information in a single, forward
pass. You make connections between concepts, revisit earlier ideas
with new understanding, and combine multiple types of information.
The most powerful neural networks work in similar ways, and that’s
why they’ve achieved such remarkable results.

--- Strana 579 ---
You’ll discover how this more flexible approach solves real-world
problems that sequential models struggle with. We’ll build networks
that can process images alongside metadata, create systems that
learn to compare inputs for similarity, and construct architectures
where information can flow more freely, avoiding the bottlenecks that
have plagued deep networks in the past. This flexibility is not only of
academic importance, but it’s also playing a large part in
transforming industries. Medical imaging systems that combine
visual analysis with patient data to improve diagnostic accuracy,
recommendation engines that process both user behavior and
content features, and autonomous vehicles that fuse inputs from
multiple sensors—all rely on the techniques we’ll explore in this
chapter.
By the end of this chapter, you’ll know how to craft custom neural
network architectures tailored to your specific problems. You’ll be
able to incorporate pretrained models into your own designs,
adapting them to your organization’s unique needs without starting
from scratch. And you’ll understand the principles behind the
revolutionary architectures that have transformed deep learning in
recent years. This is where your exploration as a neural network
architect truly begins. The building blocks we’ve explored so far
remain the same, but we’re about to learn how to arrange them in
powerful new ways that will dramatically expand what’s possible with
your models.
All of this, as with all great breakthroughs, begins with a problem—
one we’ve already seen in the previous chapter—vanishing

--- Strana 580 ---
gradients.
8.1    Overview of Keras Functional API
Remember our discussions about the vanishing gradient problem in
the previous chapter? We explored how, in deep networks, those
early layers sometimes struggle to learn because the gradients
become microscopically small by the time they travel backward
through all those layers. This challenge is intimately connected to
how information flows through our networks. When we build
sequential models, we’re essentially creating a single highway for
information, with no detours, no shortcuts, and no alternate routes.
This linear path forces every bit of information to travel through the
same congested route, often leading to traffic jams that slow down
learning.
[»]  Understanding the Philosophy of Functional API
We’ll introduce the actual mechanism to achieve all of this shortly,
but first, we must ensure that we’re on the same page about the
philosophy behind this approach. We must discuss the motivation
behind this new method of coding neural networks—the actual
syntax, as with everything Keras—isn’t too complex.
In this section, we’ll discuss how we can create dynamic pathways
for our information and gradients to flow, thus reducing the chances

--- Strana 581 ---
of information loss.
8.1.1    The Information Bottleneck
Consider what happens when playing a game of telephone, where a
message gets passed from person to person in a line. By the time
the message reaches the end, it’s often hilariously distorted. Neural
networks face a similar challenge—as information passes through
each sequential layer, it can become distorted or diluted. In deep
networks, this creates what researchers call an information
bottleneck. Each layer has the potential to lose some of the original
input’s important details. By the time the signal reaches the deeper
layers, crucial information might be lost forever, making it impossible
for the network to make accurate predictions.
Think about trying to describe a detailed painting to someone who
has to recreate it, but you have to pass your description through 10
different people before it reaches the artist. How accurate do you
think the final painting would be? In our neural networks, this rigid
structure creates several practical limitations:
Fragility
If one layer fails to learn properly, the entire network suffers
because there’s no alternative path for information.
Feature loss
Important information from earlier layers might not make it to later
layers where it’s needed for decision-making.

--- Strana 582 ---
Inefficient learning
Later layers might need direct access to earlier representations,
but they can only receive information that’s been processed (and
potentially altered) by all the intermediate layers.
Complex relationships
Many real-world problems involve multiple types of input data or
relationships that can’t be represented in a simple sequence.
At the heart of training neural networks is backpropagation—the
process that calculates how to adjust each weight to reduce errors.
Traditional backpropagation relies on the chain rule from calculus,
which works beautifully for sequential structures but becomes
limiting for more complex architectures. The chain rule is like a
bucket brigade—each person in line can only receive water from the
person directly before them and can only pass it to the person
directly after. But what if we want to create networks where layer 5
gets input directly from layer 1? Or where multiple pathways merge?
Or where certain layers share information with several others?
The traditional application of the chain rule doesn’t easily
accommodate these more complex information flows. It’s designed
for step-by-step calculations through a single path, not the intricate
web of connections we might want to create. As our problems
become more sophisticated, our network architectures need to
evolve as well. We need models that can do the following:
Skip
Allow information to skip ahead, bypassing layers that might

--- Strana 583 ---
distort it.
Create pathways
Create multiple pathways for different types of features or
processing.
Share
Share learned features across different parts of the network.
Coordinate input and output
Handle multiple inputs and outputs in coordinated ways.
8.1.2    Networks as Directed Acyclic Graphs
In the world of deep learning, we’re moving from thinking about
models as simple chains to visualizing them as what mathematicians
call directed acyclic graphs (DAGs). Don’t let the terminology
intimidate you—this is actually an intuitive concept. “Directed” simply
means that information flows in a specific direction, just like traffic on
a one-way street. “Acyclic” means there are no loops or cycles—
information never revisits a layer that it’s already passed through.
And “graph” refers to a collection of nodes (layers) connected by
edges (the flow of information).
Think about a river delta, where a single stream branches out into
multiple channels that occasionally merge back together before
reaching the ocean. This branching and merging pattern allows the
water to find multiple paths to its destination, adapting to the terrain it
encounters. Our neural networks can adopt similar patterns, with

--- Strana 584 ---
information flowing through multiple pathways that split and rejoin as
needed. This shift in perspective is powerful because it allows us to
design networks that match the natural structure of our problems
rather than forcing our problems to fit a sequential structure.
With functional models, we gain the freedom to route information in
ways that make sense for our specific task. Here are some of the
powerful patterns this enables:
Skip connections
Imagine being able to take an express elevator that bypasses
several floors of a building. Skip connections allow information to
jump ahead, creating shortcuts from earlier layers directly to later
ones. This helps combat the vanishing gradient problem by giving
those gradients a more direct path during backpropagation.
Feature reuse
In a traditional sequential network, once a layer processes
information, that specific representation is never used again
directly—it’s always transformed by the next layer first. With
functional models, multiple downstream layers can tap into the
same earlier representation, reusing those features in different
ways.
Multi-input fusion
Real-world problems often involve multiple types of data. A
medical diagnosis might use both images and patient history; a
recommendation system might consider both user behavior and

--- Strana 585 ---
item characteristics. Functional models allow us to process these
different inputs in specialized ways before combining them.
Branching pathways
Sometimes, we want our network to perform multiple related
tasks. For instance, an image analysis system might need to
identify objects, their positions, and their relationships. With
functional models, we can have shared early processing before
branching into specialized paths for each task.
In this paradigm, layers are functions that transform inputs to
outputs, and a model is simply a composition of these functions. This
approach feels very natural to those with a programming background
—like building a complex function by combining simpler ones. The
beauty of this approach is that it retains all the mathematical rigor
and learning capabilities of traditional networks while dramatically
expanding what we can build. The underlying mechanics of forward
and backward propagation still work, but now they operate on a
much more flexible architecture that better matches our needs.
8.1.3    The Functional Programming Heritage
The Keras Functional API draws inspiration from functional
programming, a paradigm with roots dating back to the 1930s with
lambda calculus. In functional programming, programs are
constructed by applying and composing functions, emphasizing what
should be computed rather than how it should be computed.

--- Strana 586 ---
The core principles that functional programming brings to neural
network design include the following:
Composition
Complex operations are created by combining simpler functions.
In our networks, this translates to building sophisticated models by
connecting simpler layers.
Pure functions
Functions that produce the same output for the same input without
side effects. In neural networks, this means layers behave
predictably based on their inputs, making models easier to reason
about.
Immutability
Once created, data structures don’t change. In the Functional API,
once a tensor flows through a layer, it produces a new tensor
rather than modifying the original one, creating a clear lineage of
transformations.
Declarative style
We specify what our program should accomplish rather than
listing step-by-step instructions. With the Functional API, we
declare the connections between layers, and Keras handles the
implementation details.
This approach creates a beautiful alignment between the
mathematics of neural networks (essentially compositions of
functions) and their implementation. The model becomes a visual

--- Strana 587 ---
and logical representation of the mathematical operations it performs
—a graph of computations that feels natural and intuitive.
As we move forward, we’ll explore exactly how to implement these
ideas using the Keras Functional API. We’ll give you the tools to
design networks that are as flexible and expressive as your
imagination, liberated from the constraints of sequential thinking.
8.1.4    Key Advantages of the Functional API
In this section, we’ll discuss the key advantages this architectural
freedom brings to our neural networks. Think about how you engage
with the world around you. When you drive a car, you’re
simultaneously processing sounds, feeling the car’s movements, and
perhaps listening to navigation instructions. Your brain integrates all
of these information streams to make decisions.
Multiple Inputs and Multiple Outputs
Traditional neural networks are like trying to drive using only a single
camera feed. The Functional API lets us build models that more
closely mimic how our brains work, processing multiple input
streams in parallel before combining them into a unified
understanding.
For example, a modern recommendation system might
simultaneously analyze the following:
Text description of an item

--- Strana 588 ---
Associated images
Your past browsing history
Current trends among similar users
Contextual information such as time of day or device
Each of these inputs might require different types of processing—
convolutional layers for images, recurrent layers for text, and dense
layers for user data. With the Functional API, we can create
specialized processing pathways for each input type and then merge
them at the perfect point to make our final recommendations.
Similarly, we can create models that perform multiple related tasks
simultaneously. An autonomous vehicle system might need to do the
following:
Detect objects in its surroundings.
Predict the objects’ future movements.
Identify safe paths forward.
Control acceleration and steering.
Rather than building separate networks for each task, we can create
a unified model with multiple outputs, allowing the shared early
layers to learn features useful for all tasks. This not only makes our
system more efficient but often improves performance as the related
tasks help guide each other’s learning.

--- Strana 589 ---
Sharing Layers Across Different Parts of a Model
Have you ever learned a skill that unexpectedly helped you in a
completely different area? Maybe learning a foreign language
enhanced your speaking abilities or solving problems helped you
become a better programmer. Neural networks can benefit from
similar cross-training when we allow them to share layers.
Layer sharing is like having the same expert contribute to different
parts of a project. If you’re building both a spam classifier and a
sentiment analyzer for emails, both tasks need to understand
language. With the Functional API, you can have them share the
same language processing layers, allowing insights from one task to
benefit the other.
This approach is particularly powerful in these applications:
Siamese networks
Used for facial recognition, identical processing pathways with
shared weights compare two inputs to determine if they represent
the same person.
Image-to-image translation
Encoder layers extract features that decoder layers then transform
into new images.
Multitask learning
Several related tasks share early processing layers before
branching into task-specific outputs.

--- Strana 590 ---
The purpose of layer sharing goes well beyond computation. It
creates powerful learning synergies, allowing knowledge gained from
one aspect of your data to enhance performance on related tasks.
Creating Nonlinear Network Topologies
The Functional API lets us create network topologies that more
closely resemble natural river deltas, with streams that branch out,
flow in parallel, and sometimes merge back together. This nonlinear
approach enables powerful architectural patterns such as the
following:
Inception modules
These process the same input at multiple scales simultaneously
before combining the results.
Deeply dense connections
Each layer receives input from all previous layers, creating a rich
web of information pathways.
Encoder-decoder
These architectures compress information into a compact
representation before expanding it into a new form.
These nonlinear topologies aren’t theoretical curiosities. They’re the
backbone of state-of-the-art models across domains. They allow
information to flow more naturally, creating multiple perspectives on
the same data before integrating them into a coherent whole.

--- Strana 591 ---
Modern transformer models powering AI-based chatbots are all built
around these concepts, especially the encoder-decoder architecture.
Enabling Advanced Architectures That Address Vanishing
Gradients
Remember the vanishing gradient problem we discussed earlier?
The Functional API provides elegant solutions through architectures
specifically designed to maintain strong gradient flow even in very
deep networks. The most revolutionary of these is the residual
connection (or skip connection), which creates highways that allow
gradients to bypass problematic layers during backpropagation. It’s
like building express lanes on a highway—traffic can still use all the
local exits but can also zoom past congested areas when necessary.
A residual connection adds the input of a layer block directly to its
output. This simple addition creates a path where gradients can flow
freely, allowing networks to grow to previously impossible depths—
from dozens to hundreds or even thousands of layers. Take a look at
Figure 8.1 for an example of a residual or skip connection. We’ll get
to the details of this later, but for now, you can see that the main path
at the bottom of the architecture is being bypassed by the skip
connection at the top. The result of the main path and the residual
connection are concatenated at the end before being output. This
enables huge improvements in backpropagation and forms a
backbone of modern machine learning architectures.

--- Strana 592 ---
As we move forward in this chapter, you’ll learn how to implement
these powerful patterns in your own models, combining the
mathematical power of deep learning with the architectural freedom
to design networks that truly match the structure of your problems.
However, we must start from the first baby step—looking at the basic
syntax of these new types of model definitions.
Figure 8.1     Residual Connection Architecture
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 593 ---
8.2    Building Complex Models with the
Functional API
Now that we’ve explored the possible benefits of this methodology,
we’ll turn our attention to the actual nuts and bolts. In this section,
we’ll start by examining a simple code snippet that illustrates the
bare minimum syntax of the Keras Functional API. This will give us
the freedom to create models with multiple inputs, multiple outputs,
shared layers, and nonlinear topology—all things that are difficult or
impossible with the Sequential API.
8.2.1    Overview of the Functional API Syntax
Let’s take a look at a basic example to get a feel for the syntax, as
shown in Listing 8.1.
inputs = keras.Input(shape=(784,), name="input_layer")
x = keras.layers.Dense(128, activation="relu", 
                       name="hidden_layer_1")(inputs)
x = keras.layers.Dense(64, activation="relu", 
                       name="hidden_layer_2")(x)
outputs = keras.layers.Dense(10, activation="softmax", 
                       name="output_layer")(x)
model = keras.Model(inputs=inputs, outputs=outputs, 
                    name="functional_model")  
Listing 8.1     Basic Syntax of the Keras Functional API

--- Strana 594 ---
At first glance, this code might look quite similar to creating a
Sequential model, but there are some fundamental differences that
make the Functional API so powerful. Let’s break it down step-by-
step. First, notice how we define our input layer separately using
keras.Input(). This is a key difference from Sequential models,
where the input shape is implicitly assumed from the first layer. Here,
we’re explicitly creating a standalone input tensor that specifies both
the shape of our data (784 dimensions, which might represent
flattened 28×28 MNIST images) and a name for this layer.
The real magic happens in the next few lines. In the Functional API,
each layer is callable—it’s very similar to a function that takes the
output of another layer as input and produces an output itself. Look
at how we’re applying our first Dense layer: we call it with the inputs
tensor as a parameter (note the parentheses after the layer
definition). This creates a connection between our input layer and
this hidden layer, establishing the flow of data in our network.
[+]  Naming Conventions for Functional Models
By convention, we name the input tensor inputs and the final
output tensor outputs. This naming helps keep our code readable,
especially as our models grow more complex. While we’ve only
defined one input and one output here, the Functional API allows
us to work with multiple inputs and outputs—a capability we’ll
explore later in this chapter.

--- Strana 595 ---
For the intermediate layers, we don’t usually assign explicit names to
the variables holding their outputs unless necessary. Instead, we
follow a pattern of reusing the variable x to store the output of each
successive layer. This approach saves us from having to come up
with unique variable names for every layer in our network. It also
makes our code cleaner and more concise, especially when we need
to repeat similar blocks of layers—something we’ll see in more
complex architectures later in this chapter.
Finally, we create our model by passing both the inputs and outputs
to the keras.Model class. This is where we define the boundaries of
our model—all layers between the specified inputs and outputs
become part of the model, including any branches or complex
pathways. The model knows exactly which operations to perform, in
which order, to transform the input into the output.
This pattern of defining our model through functional composition—
specifying the connections between layers rather than just listing
them sequentially—is what gives the Functional API its power and
flexibility. The Functional API gives you the map, allowing you to
chart whatever course you need for your specific task.
8.2.2    Creating Models with the Functional API
To further clarify this, let’s see how we define inputs in the Functional
API. The Input layer is the starting point that shapes everything that
follows. When we call keras.Input(shape=(784,)), we’re essentially
creating a blueprint that tells Keras, “Expect data with this specific

--- Strana 596 ---
structure.” The shape argument can handle various formats, as
shown in Listing 8.2—from simple vectors to complex
multidimensional tensors for images, video, or time series data.
# For vector data
vector_input = keras.Input(shape=(20,))
# For image data (height, width, channels)
image_input = keras.Input(shape=(224, 224, 3))
# For time series data (timesteps, features)
timeseries_input = keras.Input(shape=(None, 10))  
Listing 8.2     Different Types of Input Layer Definitions
The None dimension in the time series example is particularly
powerful—it tells Keras this dimension can vary, allowing us to
process sequences of different lengths. This flexibility is something
you’ll appreciate when working with real-world data that doesn’t
always come in perfectly uniform packages.
Once we’ve defined our model’s architecture by connecting layers,
we bring everything together with the Model class. This step outlined
in Listing 8.3 formalizes our network design into a cohesive object
that Keras can work with.
# Creating a model with single input and output
model = keras.Model(inputs=input_tensor, outputs=output_tensor, 
name="my_model")
# You can access model information
model.summary()

--- Strana 597 ---
model.get_config()
keras.utils.plot_model(model, "model_diagram.png", 
show_shapes=True)  
Listing 8.3     Creating and Inspecting a Functional API Model
The Model class provides a rich set of methods for training,
evaluation, prediction, and visualization. The summary() method gives
us a bird’s-eye view of our architecture, while plot_model() creates a
visual graph that can be invaluable for understanding complex
designs.
You might be wondering—if the Functional API and Sequential API
can both create similar models, why choose one over the other?
Let’s compare these approaches side by side, as shown in
Listing 8.4.
# Sequential API approach
sequential_model = keras.Sequential([
    keras.layers.Dense(128, activation="relu", input_shape=
(784,)),
    keras.layers.Dense(64, activation="relu"),
    keras.layers.Dense(10, activation="softmax")
])
# Functional API equivalent
inputs = keras.Input(shape=(784,))
x = keras.layers.Dense(128, activation="relu")(inputs)
x = keras.layers.Dense(64, activation="relu")(x)
outputs = keras.layers.Dense(10, activation="softmax")(x)
functional_model = keras.Model(inputs=inputs, outputs=outputs)  
Listing 8.4     Sequential versus Functional API Syntax Comparison

--- Strana 598 ---
The Sequential model is following a recipe step-by-step—simple and
straightforward when your dish has a linear preparation. The
Functional API, on the other hand, is more like having a fully
equipped kitchen where you can prepare multiple components
simultaneously and combine them in creative ways. While both
models in Listing 8.4 have identical architecture, the Functional API
shows its true value when we need to create more complex designs
—such as models with multiple inputs, skip connections, or
branching paths. As our models grow more complex, we can quickly
end up with hundreds of lines of layer definitions. This is where
thinking functionally can save us both time and headaches. By
wrapping common architectural patterns in Python functions, we
create reusable building blocks that make our code more
maintainable and easier to experiment with. Let’s take a look at a
detailed example in Listing 8.5 for a structured approach to building
models.
def build_encoder_block(x, filters, kernel_size=3, strides=1, 
padding="same"):
    x = keras.layers.Conv2D(filters, kernel_size, 
strides=strides, padding=padding)(x)
    x = keras.layers.Activation("relu")(x)
    return x
def build_classification_model(input_shape, num_classes):
    inputs = keras.Input(shape=input_shape)
    
    # Build encoder blocks
    x = build_encoder_block(inputs, 32)
    x = keras.layers.MaxPooling2D()(x)

--- Strana 599 ---
    x = build_encoder_block(x, 128)
    
    # Classification head
    x = keras.layers.GlobalAveragePooling2D()(x)
    x = keras.layers.Dense(256, activation="relu")(x)
    x = keras.layers.Dropout(0.5)(x)
    outputs = keras.layers.Dense(num_classes, 
activation="softmax")(x)
    
    return keras.Model(inputs, outputs)
# Create a model for a specific dataset
mnist_model = build_classification_model((28, 28, 1), 10)
cifar_model = build_classification_model((32, 32, 3), 100)  
Listing 8.5     Creating Reusable Model Architectures with Functions
This approach offers several advantages. First, it makes our code
more readable—instead of wading through dozens of layer
definitions, we can see the high-level structure at a glance. Second,
it promotes experimentation—we can easily swap out components or
adjust parameters without rewriting entire sections. Finally, it reduces
errors by encapsulating tested patterns that we know work well. This
way, we can follow the best practices without having to increase our
cognitive load. Let’s take a look at some of these practices next.
8.2.3    Best Practices for Complex Models
When building sophisticated models with the Functional API, the
following certain practices can save you from headaches later:

--- Strana 600 ---
Use meaningful names
Give important layers descriptive names that will help you identify
them in summaries, visualizations, and when debugging. So,
instead of this:
x = keras.layers.Dense(128)(x)
You should do this:
x = keras.layers.Dense(128, name="feature_embedding")(x)
Group related layers
Use functions to encapsulate logical groups of layers, making your
architecture easier to understand and modify.
Create intermediate models
For very complex architectures, consider creating separate
models for major components then combining them, as shown in
Listing 8.6.
def build_vision_encoder(input_shape):
    inputs = keras.Input(shape=input_shape)
    # Vision layers here...
    return keras.Model(inputs, x, name="vision_encoder")
def build_text_encoder(input_shape):
    inputs = keras.Input(shape=input_shape)
    # Text processing layers here...
    return keras.Model(inputs, x, name="text_encoder")
# Create component models
vision_model = build_vision_encoder((224, 224, 3))
text_model = build_text_encoder((100,))

--- Strana 601 ---
# Use them in a larger model
image_input = keras.Input(shape=(224, 224, 3))
text_input = keras.Input(shape=(100,))
image_features = vision_model(image_input)
text_features = text_model(text_input)  
Listing 8.6     Composing Through Intermediate Models
Visualize before training
Use keras.utils.plot_model() to verify your architecture before
investing time in training. These practices transform the Functional
API from a mere coding approach into a powerful design
philosophy that keeps your models maintainable even as they
grow in complexity.
8.2.4    Handling Multiple Inputs and Outputs
Now that we’ve covered the basics, let’s take a look at one of the
Functional API’s most powerful features: the ability to handle multiple
inputs and outputs. This capability opens doors to solving problems
that would be impossible with simpler architectures. Let’s look at an
example shown in Listing 8.7.
# Define inputs
image_input = keras.Input(shape=(224, 224, 3), name="image")
metadata_input = keras.Input(shape=(10,), name="metadata")
# Process image branch
x1 = keras.layers.Conv2D(32, 3, activation="relu")(image_input)

--- Strana 602 ---
x1 = keras.layers.MaxPooling2D()(x1)
x1 = keras.layers.Flatten()(x1)
x1 = keras.layers.Dense(128, activation="relu")(x1)
# Process metadata branch
x2 = keras.layers.Dense(32, activation="relu")(metadata_input)
# Combine branches
combined = keras.layers.concatenate([x1, x2])
# Output layer
output = keras.layers.Dense(1, activation="sigmoid")(combined)
# Create model with multiple inputs
model = keras.Model(inputs=[image_input, metadata_input], 
                    outputs=output)  
Listing 8.7     Creating a Model with Multiple Inputs
This model takes two completely different types of data—an image
and a vector of metadata—and processes each through its own
specialized pathway before combining them for the final prediction.
It’s like having two expert analysts working on different aspects of a
problem, and then bringing their insights together for a more
informed decision.
The same flexibility applies to outputs. We can create models, such
as those shown in Listing 8.8, that simultaneously perform multiple
tasks.
# Shared layers
shared = keras.layers.Dense(128, activation="relu")(combined)

--- Strana 603 ---
# Output branches
category_output = keras.layers.Dense(10, activation="softmax", 
                                     name="category")(shared)
price_output = keras.layers.Dense(1, name="price")(shared)
availability_output = keras.layers.Dense(1, 
            activation="sigmoid", name="availability")(shared)
# Multi-output model
multi_output_model = keras.Model(
    inputs=[image_input, metadata_input],
    outputs=[category_output, price_output, 
availability_output]
)  
Listing 8.8     Creating a Model with Multiple Outputs
When training such models, Keras allows us to specify different loss
functions and weights for each output. When you define the loss
function in model.compile, you can specify which output layer should
be using which specific loss. See the definition of losses in
Listing 8.9. Compare the loss keys in the compile function with the
layer names given in output layers shown in Listing 8.8. We can also
specify weights assigned to each loss. This approach is particularly
valuable when some tasks are more important than others or when
different outputs require different evaluation metrics.
multi_output_model.compile(
    optimizer="adam",
    loss={
        "category": "categorical_crossentropy",
        "price": "mean_squared_error",

--- Strana 604 ---
        "availability": "binary_crossentropy"
    },
    loss_weights={
        "category": 1.0,
        "price": 0.5,
        "availability": 0.8
    }
)  
Listing 8.9     Compiling a Multi-Output Model with Different Losses
The ability to process multiple inputs makes the Functional API
perfect for multimodal learning, which refers to combining different
types of data (modalities) to make more robust predictions. Think
about how humans process the world. We don’t rely solely on vision
or sound; we integrate multiple senses to understand our
environment. Multimodal models aim to do the same.
Common multimodal applications include the following:
Text + image
Combining visual features with textual descriptions for more
accurate classification or generation tasks.
Audio + text
Processing both speech recordings and their transcriptions to
improve speech recognition or sentiment analysis.
Time series + tabular data
Merging sensor readings with static features for better anomaly
detection or predictive maintenance.

--- Strana 605 ---
Video + audio
Analyzing both visual and audible components of video for content
understanding or emotion recognition.
The key advantage of multimodal learning is that different data types
often contain complementary information. When one input type is
ambiguous, the other might provide the context needed for accurate
prediction.
8.2.5    Example: Building an Image Captioning Model
Listing 8.10 brings all of these concepts together by demonstrating
how to build a simplified image captioning model—a perfect example
of multimodal learning that combines computer vision and natural
language processing.
# Image encoder
image_input = keras.Input(shape=(224, 224, 3), name="image")
cnn = keras.applications.ResNet50(include_top=False, 
                                 weights="imagenet")
(image_input)
image_features = keras.layers.GlobalAveragePooling2D()(cnn)
image_features = keras.layers.Dense(256, activation="relu")
                                 (image_features)
# Sequence encoder for captions
sequence_input = keras.Input(shape=(100,), name="caption")
embedding = keras.layers.Embedding(input_dim=10000, 
                                  output_dim=256)
(sequence_input)
sequence_features = keras.layers.LSTM(256)(embedding)

--- Strana 606 ---
# Combine both features
combined = keras.layers.concatenate([image_features, 
                                             
sequence_features])
decoder = keras.layers.Dense(256, activation="relu")(combined)
output = keras.layers.Dense(10000, activation="softmax")
(decoder)
# Create model
caption_model = keras.Model(
    inputs=[image_input, sequence_input],
    outputs=output
)  
Listing 8.10     Image Captioning Model with Dual Inputs
This model performs the following task: given an image and a partial
caption, it predicts the next word in the caption. It essentially learns
to describe images in natural language, bridging the gap between
visual and textual understanding. The architecture has two main
branches:
Image encoder
Extracts visual features using a pretrained ResNet-50. Think of
this as a built-in function for now. We’ll return to a detailed
discussion of this during our case studies later in this chapter.
Sequence encoder
That processes the partial caption using an embedding layer.

--- Strana 607 ---
By combining these features before the final prediction layer, the
model learns to associate visual patterns with linguistic expressions
—a truly multimodal capability. In practice, this model would be used
recursively to generate complete captions. We’d start with just an
image and a “start of sequence” token, predict the first word, then
feed that prediction back alongside the image to predict the second
word, and so on, until we reach an “end of sequence” token or a
maximum length.
We’ll return to a more thorough discussion of this later on in the book
when we discuss transformers. This example demonstrates the
power of the Functional API to create architectures that seamlessly
integrate different types of data processing. Whether you’re working
with images, text, time series, or any combination thereof, the
Functional API gives you the flexibility to design models that match
the true complexity of your problem domain.
As we move forward with Keras, you’ll find that mastering the
Functional API opens up a world of possibilities beyond what simpler
interfaces can offer. It’s the difference between being limited to
predesigned templates and having the freedom to architect patterns
that perfectly fit your unique challenges. Most of these patterns,
when constructed once, will come in handy in a wide range of other,
more complex models. One such pattern is that of residual
connections that we’ll discuss next.

--- Strana 608 ---
8.2.6    Residual Connections
Imagine you’re climbing a steep mountain. The traditional path
requires you to scale each section one after another—exhausting
work that gets increasingly difficult as you ascend. Now, picture if
there were occasional bridges that let you skip particularly
challenging sections, allowing you to preserve your energy for the
journey ahead. This is essentially what residual connections do for
neural networks. As we build deeper networks with dozens or even
hundreds of layers, we encounter a seemingly paradoxical problem:
adding more layers sometimes makes our models perform worse,
not better. You might think that a deeper network should always have
at least the same capabilities as a shallower one—after all, couldn’t it
just learn to use the extra layers effectively or ignore them if
needed? In theory, yes. In practice, something else happens that
makes training these very deep networks extraordinarily difficult. This
is our old enemy, the vanishing gradient problem. In the next few
sections, we’ll see how we can finally handle it using the powerful
method of residual connections.
The Vanishing Gradient Problem
To understand why residual connections are so revolutionary, let’s
first revisit the challenge they solve: the infamous vanishing gradient
problem. It always keeps coming back but it leaves us with a more
elegant solution each time.

--- Strana 609 ---
Let’s recap this problem briefly. When we train neural networks,
information flows in two directions. During the forward pass, data
travels from input to output, generating predictions. During the
backward pass, error signals travel in reverse, updating the weights
to improve future predictions. This backward signal—the gradient—is
like a message telling each neuron how it should adjust to reduce
errors.
The trouble arises because this gradient must pass through every
layer of the network, and each passage slightly weakens the signal.
It’s as if the layers near the input are too far from the action to
understand their role in the overall performance. They receive such
faint, distorted feedback that they can’t effectively learn. This
problem intensifies as networks grow deeper, creating a frustrating
ceiling on network depth—precisely when we want to build more
sophisticated models!
How Residual Connections Solve the Problem
This is where residual connections work their magic. Instead of
forcing information to flow only through a sequence of
transformations, residual connections create shortcuts—alternate
pathways that allow signals to bypass one or more layers. The key
insight is beautifully simple. In a residual block, we take the input to a
sequence of layers and add it directly to their output. Refer to
Figure 8.1 for a visual representation of this concept. We’ll explain
this figure in detail in conjunction with the code. For now, notice the

--- Strana 610 ---
skip connection going from the input to the output directly bypassing
the intermediate layers on the main path. Mathematically, if we
denote the original mapping as 
, a residual block computes
 instead of just 
. This means that even if 
 is close
to 0 (as might happen during early training), the output still retains
the original input x.
This simple change to the formulation fundamentally changes what
our layers need to learn. Instead of learning the complete
transformation from input to desired output, they only need to learn
the residual—the difference between input and output. Think of it as
asking the network, “What do I need to add to the input to get the
desired output?” rather than “How do I transform the input into the
desired output?”
This distinction might seem subtle, but it has profound implications.
Consider what happens when the optimal transformation is close to
an identity function (where output ≈ input). In a traditional network,
the layers must carefully tune weights to approximate this identity,
which is surprisingly difficult. With residual connections, they can
simply push their weights toward zero, effectively saying, “Don’t
change anything.” This makes learning much easier when small
modifications to the input are all that’s needed.
Furthermore, this approach provides a direct path for information to
flow backward during training. When calculating gradients, the
addition operation simply distributes the gradient to both its inputs—
meaning both the transformation branch 
 and the identity

--- Strana 611 ---
shortcut receive clear learning signals. The shortcut ensures
gradient information reaches earlier layers with minimal dilution,
solving the vanishing gradient problem in one elegant stroke. This
seemingly minor modification has profound implications. Now, during
backpropagation, gradients can flow through these shortcut
connections without being diminished by passing through multiple
transformation layers. It creates a highway for gradient flow that
bypasses potential bottlenecks. The early layers receive clearer
signals about how they should adjust, enabling much deeper
networks to train effectively.
[ ! ]  Be Careful When Using Residual Connections
Residual connections can be a double-edged sword in deep
learning architectures. While they excel at helping gradients flow
backward through layers, too many can create what engineers call
“highway networks” where information skips the learning process
entirely. If every road offers a bypass, traffic will always take the
path of least resistance and never explore the city itself.
Implementing Residual Connections with the Functional API
Here’s where the Functional API truly shines. Creating these skip
connections is remarkably straightforward, as shown in Listing 8.11.
def residual_block(x, filters, kernel_size=3):
    # Save the input value for the skip connection
    residual = x

--- Strana 612 ---
    
    # Apply convolutional layers
    y = layers.Conv2D(filters, kernel_size, padding='same')(x)
    y = layers.Activation('relu')(y)
    y = layers.Conv2D(filters, kernel_size, padding='same')(y)
    
    # Add the skip connection
    output = layers.add([y, residual])
    # Carry on with the rest of the model 
    output = layers.Activation('relu')(output)
    
    return output  
Listing 8.11     Creating Residual Connections Through the Functional API
This simplified code snippet shows the essence of a residual block.
We process the input through a series of layers, but crucially, we add
the original input back to the result before the final activation. The
keras.layers.add() function performs element-wise addition,
combining the transformed representation with the identity shortcut.
In more complex scenarios where the input and output dimensions
don’t match (e.g., when changing the number of filters or
downsampling), we need to transform the shortcut connection as
well. This is called projection and is the little block in the residual
path shown earlier in Figure 8.1. Code-wise, projection is just
another layer performing the required reshaping, as shown in
Listing 8.12.
def residual_block_with_projection(x, filters, 
                                   kernel_size=3, strides=2):

--- Strana 613 ---
    # Transform shortcut for dimension matching
    shortcut = keras.layers.Conv2D(filters, 1, 
                          strides=strides, padding='same')(x)
    
    # Main path
    y = keras.layers.Conv2D(filters, kernel_size, 
                           strides=strides, padding='same')(x)
    # ... rest of the layers of any type 
    
    # Add the transformed shortcut
    output = keras.layers.add([y, shortcut])
    output = keras.layers.Activation('relu')(output)
    
    return output  
Listing 8.12     Projections During Residual Connections
We’ll see complete implementations of these blocks in action later in
this chapter, but these snippets highlight the elegance of creating
residual connections using the Functional API. The ability to easily
reference any layer’s output and combine it with others is precisely
what makes these architectures possible.
Impact on Model Convergence and Performance
The introduction of residual connections has been nothing short of
transformative for deep learning. Models that would have been
practically impossible to train just a few years ago are now

--- Strana 614 ---
commonplace, with networks routinely reaching depths of 50, 100, or
even 1,000+ layers. This depth enables several critical advantages:
Improved representation power
Deeper networks can learn more complex hierarchical features,
capturing subtler patterns in the data.
Faster convergence
Despite having more parameters, residual networks often train
more quickly than their nonresidual counterparts. It’s giving the
optimization algorithm a clearer map to follow—it can take more
direct routes toward good solutions.
Better final performance
The combination of improved gradient flow and increased depth
typically results in lower error rates on challenging tasks.
Enhanced generalization
Residual networks often show better performance on new, unseen
data compared to shallow networks.
The impact is particularly visible in computer vision tasks. The
Residual Network (ResNet) family of models, which pioneered these
connections, shattered previous benchmarks on image classification
and became the backbone for countless applications. A ResNet-50
(with 50 layers) typically outperforms older nonresidual architectures
with far fewer layers despite theoretically having less
representational capacity. We’ll use this architecture in Section 8.3.1
for one of our case studies. For now, let’s turn our attention to

--- Strana 615 ---
another useful pattern of complex networks enabled by the
Functional API.
8.2.7    Branching Architectures
So far, we’ve primarily focused on networks where information flows
along a single path or simple shortcuts. But the real power of the
Functional API emerges when we break free from this linear thinking.
Branching architectures allow our models to simultaneously process
information in different ways, extracting various perspectives from
the same input before merging these insights for the final prediction.
In this section, we’ll take a look at how we can branch the flow of
information in our model to enable this parallel processing.
Creating Parallel Processing Paths
Creating branches with the Functional API is refreshingly intuitive.
We simply use the same input tensor as the starting point for
multiple processing streams. Take a look at Listing 8.13 for an
example of this.
# Start with a common input
inputs = keras.Input(shape=(224, 224, 3))
# Branch 1: Focus on local details with smaller filters
branch1 = keras.layers.Conv2D(64, 3, activation="relu", 
                              padding="same")(inputs)
branch1 = keras.layers.Conv2D(64, 3, activation="relu", 
                              padding="same")(branch1)

--- Strana 616 ---
# Branch 2: Capture broader patterns with larger filters
branch2 = keras.layers.Conv2D(64, 5, activation="relu", 
                              padding="same")(inputs)
branch2 = keras.layers.Conv2D(64, 5, activation="relu", 
                              padding="same")(branch2)
# Branch 3: Extract context with pooling operations
branch3 = keras.layers.MaxPooling2D(3, strides=1, 
                              padding="same")(inputs)
branch3 = keras.layers.Conv2D(64, 1, activation="relu", 
                              padding="same")(branch3)  
Listing 8.13     Branching to Different Paths
Each branch can be tailored to extract specific types of information
from the input. Think of it like having multiple specialists examining
the same evidence but focusing on different aspects—one might
analyze fine details, another might consider the broader context, and
a third might look for specific patterns. Their combined insights
provide a more comprehensive understanding than any single
perspective could offer.
This approach is particularly powerful for complex data such as
images, where information exists at multiple scales and patterns. A
branch with small filters might excel at capturing texture and fine
details, while another with larger filters might better recognize
broader shapes and structures. Working in parallel, they create a
rich, multifaceted representation of the input.

--- Strana 617 ---
Merging Branches: Bringing Perspectives Together
Once our branches have extracted their unique insights, we need to
bring them back together. Keras provides several ways to merge
branches, each with its own characteristics. Several types of
merging are shown in Listing 8.14.
# Concatenation: Preserve all information by stacking features 
# along a dimension
merged_concat = keras.layers.concatenate([branch1, branch2, 
                                          branch3], axis=-1)
# Addition: Combine through element-wise addition 
# (requires same shape)
merged_add = keras.layers.add([branch1, branch2, branch3])
# Average: Take the mean of corresponding elements
merged_avg = keras.layers.average([branch1, branch2, branch3])
# Maximum: Element-wise maximum 
merged_max = keras.layers.maximum([branch1, branch2, branch3])  
Listing 8.14     Merging Branches
Concatenation is like binding multiple reports together—all
information is preserved, but the resulting tensor grows larger in one
dimension. Addition, averaging, and maximum operations maintain
the original tensor shape but combine information in ways that may
emphasize or diminish certain aspects. The choice of merging
strategy depends on your specific needs:

--- Strana 618 ---
Concatenation
This preserves all information but increases the feature
dimension, potentially leading to higher computational costs in
subsequent layers.
Addition
This works well when branches process information in compatible
ways, allowing features to reinforce each other. However, it has
the disadvantage that you have to ensure equality of shapes in the
inputs.
Averaging
This provides a smoother combination that can help reduce noise
or variability. It also shares the same limitation with addition and
maximum operations.
Maximum
This selection can help emphasize the strongest detected features
across branches.
After merging, the combined representation continues through the
network, benefiting from the diverse perspectives captured by each
branch.
When to Use Branching in Your Architectures
Branching serves specific purposes that can dramatically improve
model performance in certain scenarios. Consider incorporating
branching when you’re faced with the following:

--- Strana 619 ---
Processing multi-scale features
Different-sized filters can capture patterns at various scales
simultaneously rather than relying on sequential downsampling to
handle multiple scales.
Working with heterogeneous data
When your input contains fundamentally different types of
information (e.g., images and text), dedicated branches can
process each modality appropriately before merging.
Balancing competing objectives
Some tasks require both fine-grained detail and global context.
Branches allow you to optimize for both without compromise.
Implementing ensemble-like behavior
Multiple branches can implement different modeling strategies
within a single network, similar to how ensemble methods
combine multiple models.
Managing computational resources
Branching can place more computationally intensive operations on
a separate path, allowing you to control how much processing
power is dedicated to different aspects of feature extraction.
However, branching isn’t always beneficial. It adds complexity to
your model, can increase the parameter count, and might make
training dynamics more challenging. As with many architectural
choices, the key is to experiment and let empirical results guide your
decisions.

--- Strana 620 ---
Common Patterns in Branching Models
Several powerful branching patterns have emerged in the deep
learning community. Understanding these common motifs can help
you apply branching effectively in your own models:
Inception modules
Popularized by Google’s InceptionNet (also known as
GoogLeNet), these modules run multiple convolutional operations
with different filter sizes in parallel, along with a pooling path.
They’re designed to efficiently capture patterns at multiple scales
simultaneously. Think of an Inception module as having several
specialists working in parallel—one looking at tiny details with 1×1
convolutions, others examining medium features with 3×3 filters,
and still others capturing broader patterns with 5×5 filters. A
simplified version might look something like Listing 8.15.
def inception_module(x, filters_1x1, filters_3x3, 
                        filters_5x5, filters_pool):
    # 1x1 convolution branch
    branch1 = keras.layers.Conv2D(filters_1x1, 1, 
                        activation="relu", padding="same")(x)
    
    # 3x3 convolution branch
    branch2 = keras.layers.Conv2D(filters_3x3, 3, 
                        activation="relu", padding="same")(x)
    
    # 5x5 convolution branch
    branch3 = keras.layers.Conv2D(filters_5x5, 5, 
                        activation="relu", padding="same")(x)
    

--- Strana 621 ---
    # Pooling branch
    branch4 = keras.layers.MaxPooling2D(3, strides=1, 
                                        padding="same")(x)
    branch4 = keras.layers.Conv2D(filters_pool, 1, 
                  activation="relu", padding="same")(branch4)
    
    # Concatenate all branches
    return keras.layers.concatenate([branch1, branch2, 
                                     branch3, branch4], 
axis=-1)  
Listing 8.15     Simplified Inception Block Architecture
Multi-input processing
This pattern involves separate branches for different input types,
each with architecture tailored to that data modality. We’ll see a
complete example of this pattern later with our image captioning
model.
Feature Pyramid Network (FPN)
This pattern creates a hierarchy of feature maps at different
resolutions, with lateral connections between levels. It’s
particularly effective for tasks such as object detection, where
targets appear at multiple scales.
DenseNet connections
While technically not branching in the traditional sense, DenseNet
creates dense connectivity patterns where each layer connects to
every other layer in a sequential, feed-forward manner, creating
multiple paths through the network.

--- Strana 622 ---
The beauty of the Functional API is that it makes implementing these
complex patterns surprisingly straightforward. Instead of wrestling
with complicated code structures, you can express these
sophisticated architectures in a way that visually resembles the
network diagram itself. This clarity helps you focus on the
architecture’s design rather than the implementation details.
In the next section, we’ll see some of these patterns applied in
sophisticated ways, enabling networks that can tackle complex,
multifaceted problems with elegance and efficiency. You’ll also
develop an intuition for when residual connections and branching
might help solve your specific challenges, adding a powerful
technique to your deep learning toolkit.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 623 ---
8.3    Use Cases and Examples
Now that we’ve explored the foundations of the Functional API let’s
see how it enables some of the most powerful neural network
architectures in modern deep learning. In this section, we’ll examine
four key architectures that would be challenging or impossible to
implement with the Sequential API alone: ResNet’s revolutionary
residual connections for image classification, Inception’s parallel
convolutional pathways for feature extraction, Siamese networks for
learning similarity between inputs, and U-Net’s encoder-decoder
structure with skip connections for image segmentation. Each
architecture showcases different aspects of the Functional API’s
flexibility in routing information through nonsequential paths.
8.3.1    Image Classification with ResNet
Let’s put the Functional API to work by implementing the powerful
image classification model that revolutionized the deep learning
world: ResNet. We’ve already explored how residual connections
help solve the vanishing gradient problem, but seeing them in action
will really cement your understanding. ResNet transformed how we
build deep neural networks. Before ResNet came along, adding
more layers to a network was like trying to stack blocks too high—
eventually, the tower would become unstable, and performance
would collapse. ResNet solved this fundamental problem by creating

--- Strana 624 ---
highways for information to flow through the network, bypassing
potential bottlenecks.
Think of traditional neural networks as forcing information through a
series of crowded checkpoints, where important details might get lost
in the crowd. ResNet instead creates express lanes that allow the
original information to skip some of these checkpoints entirely. It’s
like having both local streets and an expressway system in a city—
some traffic needs to wind through every intersection, but other
traffic can take the highway and arrive at the destination with the
original information intact.
[»]  Getting Complete Codes
Because we’re now working with larger models that involve more
code and repeated patterns for dataset loading and metrics
reporting, we’ll focus on the most interesting parts of the
implementation. For complete code examples, you can refer to the
supporting page where all code listings are available in their
entirety (https://recluze.net/keras-book). The complete notebook
for this ResNet case study is available under the 08-01-residual-
connections link there.
We’ll start off by loading the CIFAR-10 dataset and getting its
prebuilt training and testing splits using the following:
(x_train, y_train), (x_test, y_test) = cifar10.load_data()

--- Strana 625 ---
Then, we’ll create the part of our model that forms the residual block
shown in Listing 8.16. The main road (our shortcut) goes straight
through, but there’s also a scenic route (our convolutional layers)
that processes the information more deeply. What makes this special
is that, at the end, we combine what we learned on both paths.
# Create a function to build a residual block
def residual_block(x, filters, kernel_size=3, strides=1, 
                       use_projection=False, block_id=None):
    prefix = f'R{block_id}_' if block_id is not None else ''
    # Store the input for the residual connection
    shortcut = x
    # First convolution layer in the block
    x = layers.Conv2D(filters, kernel_size, strides=strides, \
                      padding='same', name=f'{prefix}conv1')(x)
    x = layers.Activation('relu')(x)
    # Second convolution layer in the block
    x = layers.Conv2D(filters, kernel_size, padding='same', \
                      name=f'{prefix}conv2')(x)
    # If dimensions change, we need to use projection
    if use_projection:
        shortcut = layers.Conv2D(filters, 1, \
                       strides=strides, padding='same',
                       name=f'{prefix}proj')(shortcut)
    # Add the residual connection 
    x = layers.add([x, shortcut], name=f'{prefix}add')
    x = layers.Activation('relu')(x)

--- Strana 626 ---
    return x  
Listing 8.16     Residual Block Creation for Repeated Use
The function starts by saving our input tensor as shortcut—this is
like taking a snapshot of our data before we do any processing. We’ll
need this snapshot later for our skip connection. Next, we take our
data through two convolutional layers. The first one applies filters
with a specific kernel size and stride, then activates the results with
the Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU). This is extracting basic features
from our input. The second convolutional layer further refines these
features, but interestingly, we don’t activate them yet. If our
dimensions are changing (either because we’re using a different
number of filters or a stride greater than 1), we need to transform our
shortcut to match. That’s what the use_projection parameter
controls. When it’s True, we apply a 1×1 convolution to the shortcut
path to make its dimensions match our processed data. It’s ensuring
both roads end up at the same destination (shape in this case)
despite taking different routes.
Finally, we reach the crux of the residual block: we add our
processed data back to the shortcut. This addition is what creates
the residual connection, and it’s the key innovation that helps
gradients flow during backpropagation. After adding, we apply ReLU
activation to the combined result.
What’s remarkable about this approach is that if the network decides
the convolutional layers aren’t helpful, it can essentially “turn them

--- Strana 627 ---
off” by setting their weights close to zero. This would make the
residual block act almost like an identity function, simply passing the
input forward with minimal changes. This gives the network
tremendous flexibility—it can choose to use the deeper layers when
they’re helpful but bypass them when they’re not.
The optional block_id parameter is a neat touch that helps with
model interpretability. It assigns unique names to each layer, making
it easier to identify specific components when debugging or
visualizing the network. In the grand scheme of a ResNet model,
we’ll stack many of these residual blocks together. Each one
preserves information through its shortcut connection, allowing the
network to grow much deeper without suffering from vanishing
gradients. It’s like having checkpoints throughout a long hike—even
if you get a bit lost along the way, you always have a direct path
back to where you started.
With the residual block created, we’ll also create a plain block that
doesn’t have residual connections so that we can see the effect that
the residual connection has on our learning. This is only for learning
purposes and won’t be part of a production model. Listing 8.17
shows the plain block code.
# Build a plain convolutional block (for comparison)
def plain_block(x, filters, kernel_size=3, strides=1):
    # No residual connection here
    x = layers.Conv2D(filters, kernel_size, strides=strides,\
                      padding='same')(x)
    x = layers.Activation('relu')(x)

--- Strana 628 ---
    x = layers.Conv2D(filters, kernel_size, padding='same')(x)
    x = layers.Activation('relu')(x)
    return x  
Listing 8.17     Plain Block for Comparison
With the residual and plain blocks in place, let’s unwrap how our
ResNet model comes together. The build_resnet_model function,
shown in Listing 8.18, crafts a complete neural network that uses the
power of residual connections. Think of it as an architect’s blueprint
for a building that won’t collapse no matter how tall it grows. Note
that this isn’t the exact same model as was used in the original
paper. We’ve made some modifications for ease of understanding.
# Create a deep model with residual connections
def build_resnet_model():
    inputs = Input(shape=(32, 32, 3))
    # Initial convolution
    x = layers.Conv2D(64, 3, padding='same')(inputs)
    x = layers.Activation('relu')(x)
    # First stack of residual blocks
    x = residual_block(x, 64, use_projection=True, block_id=1)
    # Second stack with downsampling
    x = residual_block(x, 128, strides=2, use_projection=True, 
                       block_id=2)
    x = residual_block(x, 128, block_id=3)
    # Global average pooling and final dense layer

--- Strana 629 ---
    x = layers.GlobalAveragePooling2D()(x)
    outputs = layers.Dense(10, activation='softmax')(x)
    model = Model(inputs=inputs, outputs=outputs)
    return model  
Listing 8.18     Building the ResNet Model
We start with our foundation—the input layer expecting 32×32-pixel
color images with three channels (RGB). This is where our data
enters the network. The process begins with a single convolutional
layer that extracts 64 basic features from the image, followed by a
ReLU activation that introduces nonlinearity. This will teach the
network to recognize elementary patterns such as edges and
textures—the building blocks of visual recognition. Next comes our
first residual block. We’re using use_projection=True because we’re
changing the number of filters (and therefore dimensions) from our
input to this block. The second stack introduces downsampling with
strides=2, essentially reducing the spatial dimensions while doubling
the feature channels to 128. This is like zooming out from the image
to see more abstract patterns. Because we’re changing dimensions
again, we need projection. The subsequent residual block maintains
these dimensions, further refining the features without changing the
spatial resolution.
After processing the image through these feature extraction layers,
we use global average pooling to summarize each feature map into
a single value. Finally, we connect to a dense layer with 10 outputs
and a softmax activation, perfect for classifying our images into 10

--- Strana 630 ---
different categories. The softmax ensures our predictions are
properly normalized as probabilities that sum to 1.
Along similar lines, we’ll create a build_plain_model function that is
very similar to this function except it uses the plain_block instead of
the residual_block. As a reminder, you can always look at the code
file in the repository for complete working code. Now, we can go
ahead and take a look at our model summaries using the code listing
given in Listing 8.19.
# Build models
resnet_model = build_resnet_model()
resnet_model.summary()
plain_model = build_plain_model()
plain_model.summary()  
Listing 8.19     Building the Models and Viewing Summaries
A portion of the complete model is shown in Figure 8.2. The
complete network can be drawn using the plot_model function of
Keras. Notice the residual connection on the right, which includes
the projection. In addition, note that the prefixes we passed to our
residual block (R1, R2, etc.) make it easier to identify which layers are
where in the overall network architecture. You can also see the need
for projection in the residual connection. The input shape is
32x32x64, and the output shape is 16x16x64. So, if we didn’t have a

--- Strana 631 ---
projection, the 32x32 and 16x16 outputs couldn’t have been added
together causing a shape mismatch error.
Figure 8.2     Snippet from the ResNet Model Showing the Skip Connection and Projection
With the models built, we’ll compile and train both the residual model
and the plain model for comparison. The results of the training are
shown in Figure 8.3. Notice that while the end results are somewhat
similar for both models, the residual model gets off to a very good
start. This is because the derivatives flowing through the residual
connections allow the model to start improving immediately, whereas
the plain model needs more training time to achieve similar results.
On much larger models, this difference becomes significantly more
pronounced, as models without residual connections can take orders
of magnitude more time to train than those with several residual
connections. What’s more, as we create more sophisticated models,
we’ll use residual connections as only part of the much larger
strategy. Combining all of these little bits of optimization will ensure

--- Strana 632 ---
our large models are able to converge. In the next section, we’ll take
a look at another pattern that is very useful in modern, large-scale
networks.
Figure 8.3     Learning Speeds With and Without Residual Connections
8.3.2    Siamese Networks for Similarity Learning
Have you ever seen identical twins who, despite looking remarkably
similar, have their own unique personalities? Siamese networks
operate on a similar principle—they’re neural networks that share
identical weights but process different inputs to measure how similar
or different those inputs are.
Consider two photographers with exactly the same equipment,
training, and technique sent to capture different scenes. When they
return, the similarities and differences in their photos would reveal
something meaningful about the scenes themselves, not about the
photographers’ styles or equipment. This is the essence of a

--- Strana 633 ---
Siamese network—by keeping everything else constant, we can truly
measure the inherent similarities between inputs.
Siamese networks are built around the concept of shared weights.
Unlike traditional neural networks that learn to classify inputs into
categories, Siamese networks learn to measure the distance or
similarity between pairs of inputs. They’re like a sophisticated
comparison engine that can tell you how alike two things are, even if
they’ve never seen those exact things before.
At their core, Siamese networks consist of two or more identical
subnetworks—exact copies with the same architecture and, critically,
the same weights. These twins process different inputs
simultaneously, transforming them into what we call “embeddings”—
compact, information-rich representations that capture the essence
of the inputs. Think of these embeddings as distilling an image,
sound, or text into its fundamental characteristics, such as extracting
the DNA of the data.
Once we have these embeddings, we can measure how close they
are to each other in this new representation space. Images of similar
digits, for instance, should have embeddings that are near each
other, while different digits should be positioned farther apart. This
distance gives us a direct measure of similarity. What makes
Siamese networks particularly powerful is their ability to generalize.
After training on enough examples, they develop an understanding
of similarity that extends beyond the specific items they’ve seen. A
Siamese network trained on handwritten digits doesn’t really

--- Strana 634 ---
memorize specific pairs of digits as similar or different. Rather, it
learns what makes digits similar in general, allowing it to compare
new handwriting samples it has never encountered before.
This property makes them ideal for tasks such as facial recognition,
signature verification, and, as we’ll explore later, creating meaningful
representations of images. For instance, using MNIST, by
embedding digits in a space where similar digits cluster together, we
can build systems that recognize handwriting patterns regardless of
small variations in how people write the same number.
[»]  The Problem of Similarity
The beauty of Siamese networks lies in their elegant approach to
the challenging problem of similarity. Rather than trying to directly
calculate similarity based on raw pixels—which would be highly
sensitive to small changes in position, rotation, or style—they learn
to transform inputs into a new space where meaningful similarities
become apparent and superficial differences fade away.
Now that we understand the concept of Siamese networks, let’s see
how we prepare data to train them. The secret lies in creating the
right pairs of examples that will teach our network to recognize
similarity. Take a look at the make_pairs function in Listing 8.20 for
this. (As before, complete code for this network, training, and
visualization can be seen on the https://recluze.net/keras-book
support page in the 08-02-siamese-network notebook.)

--- Strana 635 ---
def make_pairs(x, y):
    num_classes = max(y) + 1
    digit_indices = [np.where(y == i)[0] \
                        for i in range(num_classes)]
    pairs = []
    labels = []
    for idx1 in range(len(x)):
        # add a matching example
        x1 = x[idx1]
        label1 = y[idx1]
        idx2 = random.choice(digit_indices[label1])
        x2 = x[idx2]
        pairs += [[x1, x2]]
        labels += [0]
        # add a nonmatching example
        label2 = random.randint(0, num_classes - 1)
        while label2 == label1:
            label2 = random.randint(0, num_classes - 1)
        idx2 = random.choice(digit_indices[label2])
        x2 = x[idx2]
        pairs += [[x1, x2]]
        labels += [1]
    return np.array(pairs), np.array(labels).astype("float32")

--- Strana 636 ---
# make train pairs
pairs_train, labels_train = make_pairs(x_train, y_train)  
Listing 8.20     Creating Pairs for Measuring Similarity
Think of this function as a matchmaker for our MNIST digits. Its job is
to create meaningful relationships between images that will help our
Siamese network learn when two digits are similar or different. The
function starts by organizing our dataset by class. The line
digit_indices = [np.where(y == i)[0] for i in range(num_classes)]
creates a directory of sorts, listing all the images that belong to each
digit class. Then comes the heart of the pairing process. For each
image in our dataset, we create two specific pairs. First, we create a
matching pair—two images of the same digit. We take our current
image and find another random image of the same digit class. This
pair gets a label of 0, which in our setup means “these are similar.”
Think of this label as measuring the distance between two images—
0 means the distance is small, that is, they are very similar; and 1
means they are far apart, that is, not similar at all.
Next, we create a nonmatching pair—our current image paired with a
random image from a different digit class. This gets a label of 1,
meaning “these are different.” An example of our function creating
these pairs is shown in Figure 8.4.
Figure 8.4     Output of make_pairs Function Showing Distance as a Label

--- Strana 637 ---
Why do we need both types of pairs? This is crucial for training the
two identical branches of our Siamese network. It’s teaching parts of
the network to spot differences by showing them both identical twins
and completely unrelated people. By seeing both matching and
nonmatching examples, our network learns what makes digits similar
or different.
The beauty of this approach is balance. For every image in our
dataset, we create one matching pair and one nonmatching pair.
This ensures our network doesn’t develop biases toward similarity or
difference. Notice how we’re turning a classification problem
(identifying digits 0–9) into a similarity detection problem. Instead of
asking, “What digit is this?” we’re asking, “Are these two digits the
same?” This transformation is what makes Siamese networks so
powerful—they learn to map inputs into a space where similarity
becomes a measurable distance.
After creating all our pairs, we apply this function to our training,
validation, and test sets. This prepares the perfect training
environment for our Siamese network to learn meaningful
embeddings that capture the essence of each digit. First, we need a
way to measure how similar or different they are. This is where the
concept of distance comes into play—not physical distance, but
distance in our feature space.
Take a look at Listing 8.21 for how to calculate this distance between
two inputs. We’ve split our pairs into two separate arrays. Think of
x_train_1 as one half of our pairs and x_train_2 as the other half.

--- Strana 638 ---
Each image in x_train_1 corresponds to its partner at the same
index in x_train_2. The function eculidean_distance calculates the
distance between two image embeddings in high-dimensional space.
It implements the Euclidean distance formula—essentially, the
Pythagorean theorem extended to multiple dimensions. The
calculation follows a straightforward process: subtract the vectors,
square each element of the difference, sum these squared
differences, and take the square root. The result quantifies how
similar or different two images are according to our network’s learned
representation.
[ ! ]  Avoiding Mathematical Errors
The small detail of adding keras.backend.epsilon() is just a safety
measure to avoid mathematical problems with very small numbers
—such as making sure we don’t accidentally divide by zero.
What makes this function so powerful is that it will work on the
outputs of our neural networks—the embeddings we create. These
embeddings will encode all the complex patterns our network
discovers about digit similarity, compressed into a compact
representation. When we calculate the Euclidean distance between
these embeddings, we’re not comparing pixel values; we’re
comparing the essential “digit-ness” that our network has learned to
recognize.
The smaller this distance, the more similar our network believes the
two digits are. A distance close to zero suggests the network sees

--- Strana 639 ---
them as nearly identical, while larger distances indicate greater
differences. This elegant approach turns similarity—a concept that’s
usually subjective and hard to quantify—into a precise mathematical
measurement.
x_train_1 = pairs_train[:, 0]  # x_train_1.shape is (60000, 28, 
28)
x_train_2 = pairs_train[:, 1]
def euclidean_distance(vects):
    """Find the Euclidean distance between two vectors.
    Arguments:
        vects: List containing two tensors of same length.
    Returns:
        Tensor containing euclidean distance
        (as floating point value) between vectors.
    """
    x, y = vects
    sum_square = ops.sum(ops.square(x - y), axis=1, 
keepdims=True)
    return ops.sqrt(ops.maximum(sum_square, 
keras.backend.epsilon()))  
Listing 8.21     Euclidean Distance Between Two Vectors Representing Digits
Now we arrive at the most interesting part of our case study—
constructing the actual Siamese network architecture shown in
Listing 8.22. Think of what we’re about to build as identical twins who
share not just appearance but thought processes—when one learns
something, the other instantly knows it too. First, we create the
embedding network—the shared brain that both sides of our

--- Strana 640 ---
Siamese network will use. We’re designing a specialized lens
through which our network will examine every image. This network
takes our 28×28 MNIST digit images and transforms them into a
compact 10-dimensional (10D) representation that captures the
essence of each digit.
The architecture is fairly straightforward—we normalize the input,
apply two convolutional layers (each followed by pooling to reduce
dimensions), flatten the resulting feature maps, and finally transform
them into our 10D embedding space. This relatively simple structure
is powerful enough to learn meaningful representations of our
handwritten digits.
input = keras.layers.Input((28, 28, 1))
x = keras.layers.BatchNormalization()(input)
x = keras.layers.Conv2D(4, (5, 5), activation="tanh")(x)
x = keras.layers.AveragePooling2D(pool_size=(2, 2))(x)
x = keras.layers.Conv2D(16, (5, 5), activation="tanh")(x)
x = keras.layers.AveragePooling2D(pool_size=(2, 2))(x)
x = keras.layers.Flatten()(x)
x = keras.layers.BatchNormalization()(x)
x = keras.layers.Dense(10, activation="tanh")(x)
embedding_network = keras.Model(input, x)
input_1 = keras.layers.Input((28, 28, 1))
input_2 = keras.layers.Input((28, 28, 1))
tower_1 = embedding_network(input_1)
tower_2 = embedding_network(input_2)

--- Strana 641 ---
merge_layer = keras.layers.Lambda(euclidean_distance, \
    output_shape=(1,))(
        [tower_1, tower_2]
)
normal_layer = keras.layers.BatchNormalization()(merge_layer)
output_layer = keras.layers.Dense(1, \
                          activation="sigmoid")(normal_layer)
siamese = keras.Model(inputs=[input_1, input_2], 
                      outputs=output_layer)  
Listing 8.22     Siamese Network Architecture
Next comes the magic that makes this a true Siamese network:
weight sharing. Notice how we define two separate inputs (input_1
and input_2) but process both using the exact same embedding
network. This is the fundamental concept that gives Siamese
networks their power.
When we write
tower_1 = embedding_network(input_1)
tower_2 = embedding_network(input_2)  
we’re telling Keras to use identical copies of our embedding network
—with exactly the same weights—to process both inputs. This forced
sharing ensures that both images are processed through exactly the
same lens, making their resulting embeddings directly comparable.
After we generate these twin embeddings, we measure the
Euclidean distance between them using our previously defined
function. This distance represents how different the two input images

--- Strana 642 ---
are in our learned feature space. A small distance suggests similar
digits, while a large distance indicates different ones.
Finally, we normalize this distance and pass it through a single
neuron with a sigmoid activation function. This transforms our
distance measure into a probability-like value between 0 and 1,
where values closer to 0 indicate similar pairs and values closer to 1
indicate different pairs.
The strength of this architecture lies in its elegant symmetry. The
shared weights ensure that our network learns consistent
representations regardless of which input receives which image. If
we were to swap the two inputs, the distance calculation would
remain exactly the same—a property known as symmetry that’s
essential for a true similarity measure.
For this network, we need a specialized loss function—contrastive
loss—as shown in Listing 8.23. Think of contrastive loss as a teacher
with two different teaching strategies. For similar pairs, it says “get
closer together,” and for dissimilar pairs, it says “maintain at least a
certain distance apart.” This dual approach is what gives Siamese
networks their power to learn meaningful embeddings.
Contrastive loss elegantly handles both similar and dissimilar pairs
through a single equation:
Here, y is the true label (0 for similar, 1 for dissimilar), and d is the
predicted distance between pairs. For similar pairs ( y = 0), the loss

--- Strana 643 ---
simplifies to d2—the squared distance between embeddings. This
penalizes the network when similar items are placed far apart.
For dissimilar pairs ( y = 1), the loss becomes max(margin – d, 0)2,
which only penalizes the network when different items are closer
than the margin. Once they’re sufficiently separated, no further
penalty is applied. The margin parameter (default 1) creates a
boundary that prevents the network from pushing dissimilar items
infinitely apart, which would destabilize training. This balanced
approach crafts an embedding space where similar digits naturally
cluster together while different digits maintain appropriate
separation. Through thousands of iterations, the network discovers
which features truly matter for determining digit similarity without
explicit rules.
def loss(margin=1):
    def contrastive_loss(y_true, y_pred):
        square_pred = ops.square(y_pred)
        margin_square = ops.square(
                          ops.maximum(margin - (y_pred), 0)
                        )
        return ops.mean((1 - y_true) * square_pred + \
                        (y_true) * margin_square)
    return contrastive_loss  
Listing 8.23     Custom Loss Function for Siamese Networks
With our architecture and loss function in place, we can now train our
Siamese network to recognize digit similarities, as shown in
Listing 8.24. We compile our model with our custom contrastive loss

--- Strana 644 ---
function, using RMSprop as the optimizer to adaptively adjust learning
rates as training progresses. Notice how we feed the training data—
not as single images, but as paired inputs [x_train_1, x_train_2].
It’s teaching the model to spot differences by always showing two
objects side by side, rather than one at a time.
During each epoch, the network examines thousands of digit pairs,
gradually refining its understanding of what makes digits similar or
different. With each batch, it adjusts the weights in our embedding
network, sculpting a feature space where the distance between
points becomes meaningful.
Notice that we’re not directly teaching the network what makes a 7 a
7—instead, we’re letting it discover the essential characteristics by
learning what makes two 7s similar and what distinguishes a 7 from
a 4. As training progresses, the network transforms from a novice
with no concept of digit similarity into an expert that can place any
handwritten digit into a well-organized embedding space where
similar digits naturally cluster together.
siamese.compile(loss=loss(margin=margin), 
                optimizer="RMSprop", 
                metrics=["accuracy"])
history = siamese.fit(
    [x_train_1, x_train_2],
    labels_train,
    validation_data=([x_val_1, x_val_2], labels_val),
    batch_size=batch_size,

--- Strana 645 ---
    epochs=epochs,
)  
Listing 8.24     Compile Model and Fit
The visualizations in Figure 8.5 demonstrate our Siamese network in
action. The network correctly identifies when digits belong to the
same class (label 0.0) versus different classes (label 1.0). The pairs
with similar digits (the two 7s and the two 2s) are labeled as similar,
while the pair with different digits (the 7 and 3) is labeled as
dissimilar. This visual confirmation shows that our network has
successfully learned to distinguish between similar and different
handwritten digits, despite variations in individual writing styles using
the concept of shared weights. With these shared weights, Siamese
networks excel at learning similarity relationships between pairs of
inputs.
Figure 8.5     Predictions of the Trained Siamese Network Model
Our next architecture takes a different approach to visual
understanding. Let’s shift our focus from comparing images to
analyzing them at the pixel level, as we explore U-Net—a powerful
architecture designed for precise image segmentation tasks.

--- Strana 646 ---
8.3.3    U-Net for Image Segmentation
Image segmentation represents one of computer vision’s most
challenging tasks—assigning each pixel in an image to a specific
class or category. Unlike classification, which provides a single label
for an entire image, segmentation creates detailed masks that
outline exactly where objects appear. This pixel-level precision
makes segmentation crucial for applications requiring fine-grained
understanding of images, from autonomous vehicles detecting road
boundaries to medical diagnostics identifying precise tumor
locations. U-Net stands as one of the most influential architectures
developed specifically for this segmentation challenge. Originally
designed for biomedical image segmentation, this unique network
has found its way into numerous applications where pixel-precise
image masks are needed. While U-Net has revolutionized medical
imaging tasks such as tumor detection and organ boundary
identification, we’ll apply these same powerful techniques to a more
accessible dataset—the Oxford-IIIT Pet dataset with its collection of
cat and dog images.
What makes U-Net special is its distinctive U-shaped architecture.
The network first follows a contracting path that captures context by
reducing spatial dimensions while increasing feature depth, and then
expands through an upsampling path that enables precise
localization. One of U-Net’s most interesting characteristics is how it
uses skip connections—direct pathways that carry information from
the contracting path to the expanding path. These connections

--- Strana 647 ---
preserve fine-grained details that would otherwise be lost during
downsampling.
In our implementation, some layers will produce multiple outputs—
one that continues the main network flow and another that feeds into
these skip connections. This dual-output approach helps the network
maintain both global context and local details, a critical balance for
successful image segmentation tasks. The principles we’ll explore
here translate directly to medical applications, where the stakes of
accurate segmentation can literally be lifesaving.
We’ll start our task by loading the Oxford-IIIT Pet Dataset using
TensorFlow Datasets, which makes acquiring and preparing this data
remarkably straightforward:
dataset, info = tfds.load('oxford_iiit_pet', with_info=True)  
[»]  Access the Complete Code
The complete code for this case study can be seen on the
repository page at https://recluze.net/keras-book as the notebook
08-03-unet-segmentation.
The with_info=True parameter is particularly useful here—it returns
not just the dataset itself but also a wealth of metadata about it. This
info object contains details about the dataset’s structure, the number
of examples, feature descriptions, and even version information.
Having this metadata at our fingertips will prove invaluable as we
preprocess our images and design our model architecture to match

--- Strana 648 ---
the specific characteristics of this dataset. But before we can train
our U-Net model, we need to prepare our data—transforming raw
images and masks into the perfect training materials. Let’s walk
through the code shown in Listing 8.25 that handles this crucial
preprocessing step.
def normalize_image(input_image, input_mask):
    # Normalize image to [0, 1] range
    input_image = tf.cast(input_image, tf.float32) / 255.0
    # For our purposes, we'll convert this to binary 
segmentation
    input_mask = tf.cast(input_mask, tf.float32)
    input_mask = tf.where(input_mask == 1, 1.0, 0.0)
    return input_image, input_mask
def resize_images(input_image, input_mask, img_size=128):
    # Resize both image and mask
    input_image = tf.image.resize(input_image, 
                                  (img_size, img_size))
    input_mask = tf.image.resize(input_mask, 
                 (img_size, img_size),
                  
method=tf.image.ResizeMethod.NEAREST_NEIGHBOR)
    return input_image, input_mask
def prepare_dataset(dataset, batch_size=32, img_size=128, \
                    buffer_size=1000):
    # Extract image and mask
    dataset = dataset.map(lambda x: 

--- Strana 649 ---
                        (x['image'], x['segmentation_mask']))
    # Apply normalization and resizing
    dataset = dataset.map(normalize_image)
    dataset = dataset.map(lambda x, y: 
                         resize_images(x, y, img_size))
    # Shuffle, batch, and prefetch
    dataset = dataset.shuffle(buffer_size)
    dataset = dataset.batch(batch_size)
    dataset = dataset.prefetch(tf.data.AUTOTUNE)
    return dataset
# Prepare training and validation datasets
train_dataset = prepare_dataset(dataset['train'])
val_dataset = prepare_dataset(dataset['test'])  
Listing 8.25     Preparing Data for U-Net Segmentation
The first function we encounter, normalize_image, serves as our
data’s first stop in the transformation pipeline. In this function, we’re
doing two key things. First, we’re scaling our pixel values from the
original range of 0-255 down to a much more manageable 0-1 range.
Neural networks typically train better with these normalized values—
it’s like giving all your data the same uniform so they’re on equal
footing. Second, for the masks, we’re simplifying the problem.
Originally, the dataset marks pixels as either pet (1), background (2),
or pet outline (3). We’re converting this to a binary problem—either
pet (1.0) or not-pet (0.0). This simplification focuses our task on the
core challenge of identifying where the animal is in the image.

--- Strana 650 ---
Next, we have our resize_images function. Here, we’re ensuring all of
our images and masks have consistent dimensions. This is critical
because neural networks expect inputs of fixed size. We’re resizing
everything to 128×128 pixels—small enough to process efficiently
but large enough to retain important details. Notice how we use
different resizing methods for images versus masks. For masks, we
use nearest neighbor interpolation to preserve the exact label values
without creating in-between shades that would make no semantic
sense.
Finally, the prepare_dataset function brings everything together. This
function creates an assembly line for our data processing. First, it
extracts just what we need from the dataset—the images and their
corresponding masks. Then, it applies our normalization and resizing
functions we defined earlier. The last three lines handle the
mechanics of efficient training. Shuffling randomizes the order of
examples to prevent the model from learning misleading patterns
based on the sequence of images. Batching groups our examples
together for parallel processing. Finally, prefetching acts like a just-
in-time delivery system, preparing the next batch of data while the
current one is being processed, eliminating wasteful waiting time.
With these preprocessing steps complete, our data is ready for the
U-Net model. We’ve transformed raw, unprocessed images into a
streamlined format that will help our network learn efficiently and

--- Strana 651 ---
effectively. Look at Figure 8.6 for a couple of images from the
dataset along with their masks to fully understand the dataset.
Figure 8.6     Examples of Images and Masks from the Dataset
Now that our data is prepared, let’s examine the code that builds our
U-Net architecture. We’ll break down each function to understand
how this powerful segmentation model comes together. The
downsample_block function shown in Listing 8.26 creates the
contracting path of our U-Net. Each block performs feature extraction
while progressively reducing the spatial dimensions of our input.
def downsample_block(x, filters, kernel_size=(3, 3), 
                 padding="same", 
kernel_initializer="he_normal"):
    # First convolution layer

--- Strana 652 ---
    c = keras.layers.Conv2D(filters, kernel_size, 
                            padding=padding, 
                            
kernel_initializer=kernel_initializer
                            )(x)
    c = keras.layers.BatchNormalization()(c)
    c = keras.layers.Activation("relu")(c)
    # Second convolution layer
    c = keras.layers.Conv2D(filters, kernel_size, 
                            padding=padding, 
                            
kernel_initializer=kernel_initializer
                            )(c)
    c = keras.layers.BatchNormalization()(c)
    c = keras.layers.Activation("relu")(c)
    # Store the outputs for skip connections
    p = keras.layers.MaxPooling2D((2, 2))(c)
    return c, p  
Listing 8.26     Downsampling Block in U-Net
Let’s trace what happens to our data as it flows through this block.
First, we apply a 2D convolution that extracts features using a
specified number of filters. The same padding ensures our feature
maps maintain their spatial dimensions during convolution. The
he_normal initializer helps our network train more effectively by
setting appropriate initial weights. After convolution, we apply batch
normalization to stabilize and accelerate training by normalizing the
outputs. (We’ll return to a detailed explanation of this important

--- Strana 653 ---
concept later.) Then, the ReLU activation function introduces
nonlinearity, allowing our network to learn complex patterns.
We repeat this convolution-normalization-activation sequence a
second time to further refine our features. This double convolution
pattern is a signature element of the U-Net architecture. Finally, we
create two outputs: the convolution result c (later serves as a skip
connection) and a downsampled version p created by max pooling,
which reduces the spatial dimensions by half while preserving the
most important features.
The upsample_block shown in Listing 8.27 creates the expansive
path of our U-Net, where we gradually restore spatial dimensions
while refining segmentation details. First, we use a transposed
convolution (sometimes called deconvolution) to double the spatial
dimensions. This operation is essentially the reverse of a normal
convolution, expanding rather than contracting the feature maps.
Second, the crucial skip connection mechanism is used. We
concatenate our upsampled features with the corresponding features
from the downsampling path (skip_features). This gives our network
access to both fine-grained spatial details from earlier layers and
high-level semantic understanding from deeper layers.
def upsample_block(x, skip_features, filters, 
                   kernel_size=(3, 3), padding="same",
                   kernel_initializer="he_normal"):
    # Upsampling
    u = keras.layers.Conv2DTranspose(filters, (2, 2), 
                   strides=(2, 2), padding=padding)(x)

--- Strana 654 ---
    # Concatenate with skip connection
    u = keras.layers.Concatenate()([u, skip_features])
    # Convolution layers
    u = keras.layers.Conv2D(filters, kernel_size, 
                            padding=padding
                            
kernel_initializer=kernel_initializer
                            )(u)
    u = keras.layers.BatchNormalization()(u)
    u = keras.layers.Activation("relu")(u)
    u = keras.layers.Conv2D(filters, kernel_size, 
                            padding=padding, 
                            
kernel_initializer=kernel_initializer
                            )(u)
    u = keras.layers.BatchNormalization()(u)
    u = keras.layers.Activation("relu")(u)
    return u  
Listing 8.27     Upsampling Block in U-Net
After concatenation, we apply two consecutive convolution-
normalization-activation sequences, similar to the downsampling
block. These operations integrate the information from the skip
connection with our upsampled features, producing more refined
segmentation maps.
The build_unet function assembles our complete architecture, as
shown in Listing 8.28. It expects input images of shape (128, 128, 3)

--- Strana 655 ---
—height, width, and RGB channels—and produces binary
segmentation masks.
We begin with the downsampling path, applying four consecutive
downsample blocks with progressively increasing numbers of filters
(64, 128, 256, 512). Each block halves the spatial dimensions while
doubling the feature depth, allowing the network to detect
increasingly complex features.
def build_unet(input_shape=(128, 128, 3), num_classes=1):
    # Input layer
    inputs = keras.layers.Input(shape=input_shape)
    # Downsampling path
    s1, p1 = downsample_block(inputs, 64)
    s2, p2 = downsample_block(p1, 128)
    s3, p3 = downsample_block(p2, 256)
    s4, p4 = downsample_block(p3, 512)
    # Bridge
    b = keras.layers.Conv2D(1024, (3, 3), padding="same", 
                            kernel_initializer="he_normal")(p4)
    b = keras.layers.BatchNormalization()(b)
    b = keras.layers.Activation("relu")(b)
    b = keras.layers.Conv2D(1024, (3, 3), padding="same", 
                            kernel_initializer="he_normal")(b)
    b = keras.layers.BatchNormalization()(b)
    b = keras.layers.Activation("relu")(b)
    # Upsampling path
    u1 = upsample_block(b, s4, 512)
    u2 = upsample_block(u1, s3, 256)

--- Strana 656 ---
    u3 = upsample_block(u2, s2, 128)
    u4 = upsample_block(u3, s1, 64)
    # Output layer
    outputs = keras.layers.Conv2D(num_classes, (1, 1), 
                                  padding="same", 
                                  activation="sigmoid")(u4)
    # Create model
    model = keras.Model(inputs, outputs)
    return model
# Build the UNET model
model = build_unet()
model.summary()  
Listing 8.28     The Complete U-Net Model
At the bottom of our “U” sits the bridge—two convolution layers with
1,024 filters that process the most abstract features. This represents
the bottleneck of information in our network.
Then begins the upsampling path, which mirrors the downsampling
path in reverse. We apply four upsampling blocks, each connecting
with its corresponding skip connection from the downsampling path
(s4, s3, s2, s1). Notice how the number of filters decreases as we
move up (512, 256, 128, 64), gradually shifting from abstract features
back to spatial detail.
Finally, a 1×1 convolution with sigmoid activation produces our
output—a probability map where each pixel value represents the

--- Strana 657 ---
likelihood of that pixel belonging to our foreground class (the pet).
For multi-class segmentation, we would change num_classes and use
softmax activation instead.
The beauty of the U-Net lies in this symmetric architecture with skip
connections. The downsampling path captures semantic context
(what’s in the image), while the upsampling path with skip
connections recovers spatial precision (where it’s located). With our
model architecture in place, we need to prepare it for training. This
involves setting up how our model will learn and defining the
guardrails that will guide its learning journey. The compilation step,
shown in Listing 8.29, configures the learning process for our U-Net.
We’ve chosen the Adaptive Moment Estimation (Adam) optimizer
with a carefully selected learning rate of 0.0001—small enough to
navigate the complex loss landscape of image segmentation without
overshooting, yet large enough to make meaningful progress during
training.
For our loss function, binary cross-entropy serves as the perfect
mathematical compass for binary segmentation tasks. It measures
how well our model distinguishes between pet pixels and non-pet
pixels, penalizing incorrect predictions more severely as they diverge
from the true values.
We’re tracking two metrics during training: plain accuracy (the
percentage of correctly classified pixels) and the Binary Intersection
over Union (Binary IoU). The IoU metric is particularly important for
segmentation tasks because it measures the overlap between our

--- Strana 658 ---
predicted segmentation mask and the ground truth. A perfect IoU
score of 1.0 would mean our prediction exactly matches the true
mask.
# Compile the model
model.compile(
    optimizer=keras.optimizers.Adam(learning_rate=1e-4),
    loss='binary_crossentropy',
    metrics=['accuracy', 
             keras.metrics.BinaryIoU(target_class_ids=[1], 
                                     threshold=0.5)]
)
# Define callbacks
callbacks = [
    keras.callbacks.ModelCheckpoint("unet_oxford_pets.keras", 
                                    save_best_only=True),
    keras.callbacks.ReduceLROnPlateau(patience=3, factor=0.5),
    keras.callbacks.EarlyStopping(patience=10, 
                                  restore_best_weights=True)
]  
Listing 8.29     Compilation and Callbacks for U-Net
The callbacks we’ve defined act as smart training assistants that
monitor progress and make adjustments:
1. The ModelCheckpoint callback saves our model whenever it
improves, ensuring we don’t lose our best version if performance
starts to decline later in training.
2. The ReduceLROnPlateau callback is particularly of interest here. It
watches for plateaus in performance where the model stops

--- Strana 659 ---
improving. After three epochs of stagnation (that’s our patience
parameter), it reduces the learning rate by half (our factor
parameter). This is like switching from large steps to smaller,
more careful steps when you’re getting close to your destination,
allowing the model to fine-tune its parameters with greater
precision.
3. Finally, the EarlyStopping callback prevents wasted computation
by halting training if the model shows no improvement for 10
consecutive epochs. The restore_best_weights parameter
ensures we revert to the best version of the model rather than
keeping the final one, which might not be the best one.
Together, these training settings create a robust learning
environment for our U-Net, balancing efficient progress with careful
optimization to produce the most accurate segmentation results
possible.
Let’s take a moment to examine what our U-Net model has actually
learned. The images shown in Figure 8.7 show how well our neural
network has grasped the concept of pet versus not-pet in these
photographs.
Looking at the first example—a small black and white dog with a red
food bowl—we can see how our model performed. The true mask
(middle image) shows a crisp, binary representation where white
pixels mark the dog and black pixels represent everything else. Our
model’s prediction (right image) captures the general shape of the
dog, but notice how it’s not a perfect binary mask—instead, we see

--- Strana 660 ---
varying shades of gray. These grayscale values represent the
model’s confidence: brighter areas indicate higher confidence that
those pixels belong to the pet class. The model has successfully
identified the core body of the dog, with the highest confidence in the
central regions. However, the boundaries are less defined than in the
ground truth mask. This is a common pattern in image segmentation
—boundaries are often the most challenging areas for models to
classify with high confidence, as these transitional regions contain
mixed visual information.
Figure 8.7     Results of the U-Net Model
In the second example, which shows a white cat, we see similar
behavior. The model correctly identifies the main body of the cat but
is less certain about the precise boundaries. There’s also some
interesting diffusion of the prediction—the segmentation mask has a
slightly blurred quality compared to the sharp edges of the ground
truth.

--- Strana 661 ---
These results reveal both the strengths and limitations of our U-Net
implementation. The model has clearly learned the fundamental
visual features that distinguish pets from backgrounds—fur textures,
body shapes, and typical pet postures. However, it hasn’t perfectly
captured the precise pixel-level boundaries that define where the pet
ends and the background begins.
This outcome isn’t unexpected for a model trained with relatively
limited data and moderate resolution. For many applications, this
level of segmentation would be quite sufficient. If we needed more
precise boundaries, we might consider the following:
Training with higher resolution images
Using more sophisticated loss functions that specifically penalize
boundary errors
Implementing post-processing techniques to sharpen the
predicted masks
Adding more training data with diverse pet boundaries
Another altogether different strategy we might use for improvement
is to instead “stand on the shoulders of the giants.” We can take a
model already trained by some industry giant with a huge number of
resources and then somehow modify it to suit our specific needs. In
the next section, we’ll see how this can be done with very little effort
on our part.

--- Strana 662 ---
[+]  U-Net for Medical Images
While our model performs reasonably well on pet images, U-Net
was actually designed for medical images and shows its true
potential when applied to X-ray datasets. The architecture was
specifically created to segment medical scans where precise
boundary detection is critical for clinical applications. If you’re
interested in seeing U-Net perform at its best, try implementing it
with publicly available medical imaging datasets, where its ability
to preserve fine details through skip connections becomes even
more apparent.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 663 ---
8.4    Using Transfer Learning to Customize
Models for Your Organization
Consider what happens when you’re trying to learn a new language.
You could start completely from scratch, learning every word,
grammatical rule, and pronunciation pattern through years of
dedicated study. Or, you could leverage your existing knowledge of
language—perhaps your native tongue or another language you
already know—to accelerate the process dramatically if you try to
first search for similarities between the language you already know
and the one you’re trying to learn. This intuitive concept lies at the
heart of one of deep learning’s most powerful techniques: transfer
learning.
Throughout this chapter, we’ve explored various model architectures
and approaches using the Functional API. But among all of these
case studies, transfer learning stands apart. Transfer learning isn’t
an architecture or model design pattern. Rather, it’s a fundamental
paradigm shift in how we approach problem-solving with neural
networks. Transfer learning is like hiring an expert consultant who
has spent years mastering a related field and then training them to
apply that expertise to your specific challenges. Instead of building
intelligence from the ground up, we’re repurposing existing
knowledge. The neural network has already learned to see the world
—we’re just teaching it to look at our particular corner of it.

--- Strana 664 ---
What makes this approach so revolutionary is how it democratizes
deep learning. Not every organization has the luxury of massive
datasets containing millions of examples or the computational
resources to train models from scratch for weeks on specialized
hardware. Many real-world problems are constrained by limited data,
tight budgets, or pressing timelines. Transfer learning elegantly
addresses these limitations by allowing us to build on the solid
foundations laid by others. In this section, we’ll take a look at the
rationale behind transfer learning and how to implement it efficiently
using Keras.
8.4.1    The Why of Transfer Learning
Think about the models we’ve discussed earlier—they might contain
millions of parameters that have been painstakingly optimized on
enormous datasets such as ImageNet, which contains more than 14
million labeled images across thousands of categories. During this
extensive training process, these models have learned to recognize
edges, textures, shapes, and complex visual patterns that are
fundamental to image understanding. This knowledge isn’t specific to
any particular dataset—it represents a general understanding of the
visual world. When we apply transfer learning, we’re essentially
saying, “You already know how to see. Now learn to recognize these
specific things that matter to my business.” This approach
dramatically reduces the amount of data and computation required to
achieve impressive results. A model that might need thousands of
examples when trained from scratch might perform admirably with

--- Strana 665 ---
just dozens or hundreds of examples when fine-tuned through
transfer learning.
[»]  Implications of Transfer Learning
The implications of transfer learning are profound. Small research
teams, startups, nonprofits, and individual practitioners can now
tackle problems that would have been completely out of reach just
a few years ago. Domain experts in fields such as medicine,
agriculture, or environmental science can adapt powerful models
to their specialized needs without becoming deep learning experts
themselves.
In the sections that follow, we’ll put transfer learning into practice on
a satellite imagery classification task. But unlike our previous
examples, we won’t need to train a sophisticated model from
scratch. Instead, we’ll leverage a pretrained convolutional neural
network that has already mastered the fundamentals of image
recognition, adapting it to our specific needs with remarkable
efficiency. We’ll see how this approach allows us to achieve
impressive results with modest computational resources and limited
training data—truly standing on the shoulders of giants.
This approach exemplifies what makes modern deep learning so
powerful—not just its technical capabilities, but its accessibility and
adaptability to real-world constraints. By the end of this section, you’ll
have added one of the most practical and widely used techniques in
all of machine learning to your toolkit.

--- Strana 666 ---
For our satellite image dataset, we’ll use EuroSAT—a collection of
27,000 labeled satellite images captured by the Sentinel-2 satellite
mission, part of the European Space Agency’s Copernicus program.
This dataset offers exactly what we need when teaching our models
to see the world from above: specialized data that captures the
unique perspective of satellite imagery.
These images are 64×64-pixel patches that span 13 spectral bands,
including those beyond human vision such as near-infrared, giving
our models access to information our eyes could never perceive. As
you can see in Figure 8.8, the dataset encompasses 10 different
land use and land cover classes that represent the diverse European
landscape—from the geometric patterns of industrial and residential
areas to the organic textures of forests, pastures, and bodies of
water. What makes EuroSAT particularly valuable for our transfer
learning journey is its real-world relevance coupled with manageable
complexity. With classes that include Highway, River, Sea & Lake,
Forest, Residential, and Industrial, it presents challenges similar to
what environmental monitoring systems face daily, yet remains
accessible enough for our learning purposes. For this classification
task, we won’t create a model from scratch. Instead, we’ll use the
pretrained ResNet-50 architecture available directly from Keras,
demonstrating how transfer learning allows us to repurpose existing
models for new domains.
This dataset bridges the gap between academic exercises and
practical applications. The same techniques we’ll use to classify
these satellite images can be scaled to monitor deforestation, track

--- Strana 667 ---
urban development, assess agricultural health, or map disaster
impacts—making this more than just a learning exercise. The
complete code for this visualization can be seen on the support page
https://recluze.net/keras-book in the notebook 08-04-transfer-
learning-intro.
Figure 8.8     Example Images from the EuroSAT Dataset
8.4.2    Leveraging Pretrained Models from Keras
When working with sophisticated deep learning architectures, we
often don’t want to start from scratch. It’s like trying to build a race
car when you could simply drive one off the lot and customize it to
your needs. Keras makes this process remarkably straightforward,
as we can see in Listing 8.30. The code performs a seemingly
simple task that conceals an extraordinary feat. With just a few lines,
we’re accessing both a sophisticated model architecture (ResNet-50)
and its carefully trained weights—the culmination of thousands of
hours of computation on more than a million images.
ResNet-50 is like a talented artist who has spent years learning to
see and interpret visual patterns. When we specify

--- Strana 668 ---
weights='imagenet', we’re telling Keras to download not only the
architecture blueprint but also all the knowledge this model has
accumulated during its extensive training on the ImageNet dataset.
This is remarkably convenient—imagine having instant access to an
expert’s lifetime of experience with a single function call.
On the other hand, the parameter include_top=False is our way of
saying, “I want your visual expertise, but I’ll handle the final decisions
myself.” This removes the classification head—the last few layers
specifically trained to recognize the 1,000 ImageNet categories.
With input_shape=(224, 224, 3), we’re specifying the dimensions our
images will have when fed to the model. The model expects color
images (that’s the three channels for RGB) with height and width of
224 pixels. This flexibility allows us to adapt the pretrained model to
our specific image dimensions. The diagnostic prints that follow give
us a quick overview of what we’ve just loaded—confirming the type
of model, counting its layers, and checking whether the model
parameters are currently set to be updated during training. The final
summary() call provides a detailed layer-by-layer breakdown of the
model’s architecture, showing us the impressive depth and
complexity of the network we now have at our disposal.
What’s remarkable is that this single import statement gives us
access to a model that would require enormous computational
resources and expertise to train from scratch. By importing and using
Keras’s pretrained models, we’re ready to adapt the model’s visual
expertise to our specific satellite image classification task.

--- Strana 669 ---
import keras
# Load pretrained ResNet-50 model
base_model = keras.applications.ResNet50(
    weights='imagenet',           # Pretrained weights 
    include_top=False,            # Exclude the classifier
    input_shape=(224, 224, 3)     # Input dimensions 
)
# Check the model architecture
print(f"Model type: {type(base_model)}")
print(f"Number of layers: {len(base_model.layers)}")
print(f"Is the model trainable? {base_model.trainable}")
base_model.summary()  
Listing 8.30     Reusing an Existing Model
8.4.3    The Process of Transfer Learning
Transfer learning is like teaching a seasoned chef to prepare a new
cuisine. The chef already knows how to chop, sauté, and understand
flavors—we’re just redirecting those skills toward different
ingredients and dishes. This powerful approach unfolds in four
orchestrated steps:
1. Adopt an experienced mind
We acquire a pretrained model complete with both its
architecture (the neural pathways) and weights (the
accumulated knowledge). This is like recruiting an expert who
has spent years developing specialized skills—perhaps they’ve

--- Strana 670 ---
studied millions of images and learned to recognize thousands
of objects. Their neural pathways have already formed, their
weights already tuned through extensive experience.
2. Reshape for new challenges
We perform a bit of neural surgery—removing the specialized
output layers of the original model and replacing them with our
own custom structure. It’s similar to taking a portrait
photographer and retraining them to capture wildlife. The
fundamental skills of composition, lighting, and focus remain
valuable, but the specific output needs redirection toward new
subjects.
3. Selective learning with frozen knowledge
We next freeze the pretrained layers—preserving all that
valuable feature extraction knowledge—while only training our
newly added layers. This selective training is like telling our
expert, “Keep doing what you’re already good at, but let’s focus
on adapting just your final decision-making process.” The
gradient updates only flow through the new pathways, leaving
the foundational knowledge intact. This means the gradient
descent step is simply not applied to the model parameters in
the frozen layers.
4. Fine-tuning for specialized excellence
We selectively unfreeze some of the deeper layers, allowing
them to gently adapt to our specific domain. This optional but
powerful step is like allowing our expert to slightly modify their
fundamental techniques to better serve the new context. It’s a

--- Strana 671 ---
delicate balance—we want enough flexibility for specialization
without losing the rich foundation of pretrained knowledge.
By following these four steps, we transform general intelligence into
specialized expertise, all while avoiding the enormous computational
and data requirements of training from scratch. Let’s see this in
practice next.
8.4.4    Reloading an Existing Model
Let’s begin the first step by using the ResNet model we loaded
earlier as a demonstration. The complete model building function is
shown in Listing 8.31. Our function begins by recruiting a pretrained
expert—ResNet-50 with its ImageNet knowledge. (The complete
code for this network, training and visualization can be seen on the
support page https://recluze.net/keras-book in the notebook 08-05-
transfer-learning-eurosat.)
With base_model.trainable = False, we’re freezing all the carefully
trained weights of ResNet-50, preserving the knowledge while we
add our own customizations. It’s like putting the existing knowledge
into a protective case while we build around it. The next several lines
are where the architectural transformation happens. We create a
fresh input pathway with keras.Input(shape=(224, 224, 3)), ensuring
our model expects color images sized at 224×224 pixels. Then, we
connect this input to our frozen ResNet-50 base, with training=False
to keep the internal layers (e.g., batch normalization) in inference
mode.

--- Strana 672 ---
[+]  Difference in Trainable and Training Booleans
Notice the two settings here. With model.trainable=False, we’re
freezing the parameter updates, and with training=False, we’re
telling the model that we’re not training and thus it shouldn’t apply
training-only operations. An example of a training-only operation
we’ve seen before is dropout. So, when we set training=False, no
dropout will be applied on these base layers.
Now comes the customization—we’re adding our own layers on top
of ResNet’s feature extraction abilities. The GlobalAveragePooling2D
layer condenses the spatial information into a single vector per
feature map, such as summarizing detailed observations into key
insights. The Dropout(0.3) layer randomly silences 30% of these
neurons during training, a technique that prevents the new layers in
our model from becoming too dependent on any single feature—
similar to how a team becomes more resilient when members can
cover for each other.
Our Dense(256, activation='relu') layer is like adding a team of
256 new analysts who combine the extracted features in creative
ways, with ReLU activation ensuring they only pass along positive,
meaningful contributions. Finally, the output layer with softmax
activation gives us a probability distribution across our classes.
With the Functional API, we connect these components into a
cohesive workflow, explicitly mapping inputs to outputs. The
compilation step sets up our learning process with the Adam

--- Strana 673 ---
optimizer (adaptively tunes the learning rate), categorical cross-
entropy loss (ideal for multi-class problems), and accuracy as our
progress metric. In just about 25 lines of code, we’ve transformed a
general-purpose image recognition expert into a specialist primed for
our specific classification task—preserving its foundational
knowledge while redirecting its expertise toward our unique problem
domain.
def build_transfer_learning_model(num_classes):
    # Load pretrained ResNet-50 model
    base_model = keras.applications.ResNet50(
        weights='imagenet',
        include_top=False,
        input_shape=(224, 224, 3)
    )
    # Freeze the pretrained weights
    base_model.trainable = False
    # Create the input tensor
    inputs = keras.Input(shape=(224, 224, 3))
    # Apply the pretrained ResNet-50 model
    x = base_model(inputs, training=False)
    # Add custom layers
    x = layers.GlobalAveragePooling2D()(x)
    x = layers.Dropout(0.3)(x)
    x = layers.Dense(256, activation='relu')(x)
    outputs = layers.Dense(num_classes, activation='softmax')
(x)

--- Strana 674 ---
    # Create the model using Functional API
    model = keras.Model(inputs=inputs, outputs=outputs)
    # Compile the model
    model.compile(
        optimizer=keras.optimizers.Adam(learning_rate=0.001),
        loss='categorical_crossentropy',
        metrics=['accuracy']
    )
    return model  
Listing 8.31     Building the Transfer Learning Model
Once our model is prepared and our data is loaded, we can simply
proceed with training using model.fit()—just as we would with any
other neural network. But the use of transfer learning makes this a
little different. During this training phase, only the unfrozen layers—
those custom layers we added on top of ResNet—will actually learn
and adapt. The pretrained parameters in the rest of the model
remain frozen in time, untouched by our training process.
This selective training approach serves two important purposes.
First, it protects the valuable feature extraction knowledge that
ResNet acquired through its extensive training. We don’t want those
parameter values to be disrupted by our limited dataset. Second, it
dramatically accelerates our training process. If you run
model.summary(), you’ll discover something remarkable—though the
model contains around 24 million parameters in total, only about half
a million of these are trainable. That’s less than 2% of the

--- Strana 675 ---
parameters needing updates! This efficiency means our gradient
descent steps run blazingly fast, and the network doesn’t suffer as
much from the vanishing gradient problem that often plagues deep
networks. It’s having the benefit of a massive neural network’s power
while only paying the computational cost of training a much smaller
one. This dual advantage—preserving valuable knowledge while
drastically reducing computational requirements—represents one of
the most powerful benefits of the transfer learning approach.
The last step in our transfer learning process is to perform fine-
tuning. Up until now, we’ve been using ResNet-50 as a fixed feature
extractor, but what if we could gently nudge some of its deeper
knowledge to better align with our satellite imagery? We achieve this
through the fine_tune_model function shown in Listing 8.32. We
begin by accessing the base ResNet-50 model—it’s the second layer
in our model architecture (index 1). Then comes a crucial decision:
Which layers should we allow to adapt? ResNet-50 is organized in
blocks of convolutional layers, each capturing different levels of
abstraction. The earlier layers recognize fundamental patterns such
as edges and textures, while the later layers identify more complex
features.
By targeting layers from 143 onward—the fifth convolutional block—
we’re making a strategic choice. We’re saying, “Keep your basic
understanding of visual elements intact, but let’s refine your higher-
level feature recognition.” It’s like keeping a photographer’s
fundamental skills unchanged while adapting their artistic eye to a
new subject matter. In practice, you’ll learn to come to grips with

--- Strana 676 ---
picking this number as your experience as a machine learning expert
increases.
The next part is similarly important—we recompile the model with a
much smaller learning rate (1e-5 instead of the original 1e-3). This
tiny learning rate is like asking our model to take baby steps rather
than giant leaps. We’re not looking to radically reshape the
pretrained knowledge, just gently nudge it toward our domain. It’s the
difference between rebuilding a house versus carefully redecorating
it. This cautious approach prevents catastrophic forgetting, where
aggressive updates might erase the valuable knowledge
accumulated during pretraining.
def fine_tune_model(model, train_ds, val_ds, epochs=10):
    # Unfreeze some layers of the base model
    base_model = model.layers[1]  # ResNet-50 model
    # Unfreeze from the 5th convolutional block
    # The 5th block starts around layer 143
    for layer in base_model.layers[143:]:
        layer.trainable = True
    # Recompile with a lower learning rate
    model.compile(
        optimizer=keras.optimizers.Adam(learning_rate=1e-5),
        loss='categorical_crossentropy',
        metrics=['accuracy']
    )
    # set callbacks and fit as always 
    # ... (code omitted for brevity) 

--- Strana 677 ---
    return history  
Listing 8.32     Fine-Tuning ResNet-50
The results of our training and fine-tuning are summarized in the
plots in Figure 8.9. Looking at the accuracy plot on the left, the first
eight epochs are our initial training phase. Notice how the training
accuracy line climbs rapidly from around 91% to nearly 98%—a
remarkable improvement as our custom layers learn to interpret
ResNet-50’s features. Meanwhile, the mostly horizontal validation
line follows a similar trajectory but with those characteristic zigzags
that remind us we’re dealing with the messiness of real-world data.
What’s particularly interesting is how the validation accuracy peaks
around epoch 5-6 at about 96%–97% and then begins a subtle
downward trend. This is the classic sign that we’ve reached the limits
of what our model can learn without adapting its deeper knowledge.
Then comes the dramatic second act beginning at epoch 10—our
fine-tuning phase. The transformation is striking! The fine-tuning
training accuracy line shoots upward, quickly surpassing our
previous best performance and climbing steadily toward an
impressive 99.5%. This is the power of allowing those deeper
ResNet-50 layers to adapt to our satellite imagery domain. The fine-
tuning validation line remains mostly horizontal and thus shows
something equally important. It immediately jumps above our
previous validation peak, stabilizing around 97.5%—a significant
improvement that confirms our fine-tuning is genuinely enhancing

--- Strana 678 ---
the model’s understanding rather than just allowing the model to
memorize training examples.
Figure 8.9     Results of Transfer Learning and Fine-Tuning
The loss curves on the right provide additional confirmation. During
the initial training, both training and validation loss decrease steadily
but begin to diverge—another sign we’re approaching the limits of
what can be learned with frozen layers. Once fine-tuning begins, we
see a sharp drop in training loss (immdiate drop when training
begins) that continues throughout the remaining epochs, eventually
approaching near 0. The validation loss (mostly horizontal) similarly
drops slightly but then stabilizes around 0.08-0.09, maintaining a
healthy gap that suggests good generalization without overfitting.
What’s most remarkable is the gap between fine-tuning training
accuracy and validation accuracy in the later epochs. While training
accuracy pushes toward 100%, validation holds steady around
97.5%. This gap is expected and healthy—it shows our model is
learning from the training data without becoming overly specialized
to it. These plots confirm everything we’ve discussed about transfer
learning’s power. By building on ResNet-50’s visual expertise and
carefully adapting it to our domain, we’ve created a model that
achieves exceptional accuracy on satellite imagery with relatively

--- Strana 679 ---
modest training data and computational resources. The fine-tuning
phase clearly provided that extra boost we anticipated, pushing
performance beyond what was possible with the frozen base model
alone.
This visual evidence makes a compelling case for the transfer
learning approach we’ve explored throughout this chapter,
demonstrating how we can leverage existing knowledge to solve
new problems more efficiently and effectively than starting from
scratch.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 680 ---
8.5    Summary
In this chapter, we explored the Keras Functional API as the solution
to sequential models’ limitations. We introduced the explicit layer
connection syntax that enables complex neural architectures such as
residual networks with skip connections and multibranch models.
Through practical case studies, we demonstrated real-world
applications, including ResNet for classification, Siamese networks
for similarity learning, and U-Net for image segmentation. We
concluded the chapter with transfer learning, showing how we could
repurpose pretrained models such as ResNet-50 for specialized
tasks such as satellite imagery classification with minimal data and
computational resources. Throughout this journey, we revealed how
the Functional API transforms Keras from a basic sequential tool into
a platform capable of implementing sophisticated modern
architectures that deliver superior performance across diverse
domains. In the next chapter, we’ll use the Functional API to create a
newer and increasingly popular type of model that’s especially good
at understanding sequences such as text.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 681 ---
9    Understanding Transformers
In this chapter, we’ll explore transformers, a revolutionary
architecture that has redefined natural language processing
(NLP). We’ll begin with the theory behind how these models
understand relationships between words, regardless of their
position in a sequence. We’ll learn about key components such
as attention mechanisms that make these models so effective.
We’ll then build a transformer from scratch in Keras before
showing you how to leverage pretrained models to create
practical applications with minimal code. By the chapter’s end,
you’ll understand transformer fundamentals and how to apply
them to real-world problems.
Transformers are a revolutionary concept in the field of AI, forming
the foundation of virtually all state-of-the-art language models today.
When you interact with ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini, or any other
modern AI assistant, you’re experiencing the power of transformer
architecture. This chapter will take you on a journey to understand
this groundbreaking technology that has changed how machines
process language, images, and beyond. We’ll start by exploring the
world of sequence data, which is information that comes in a
particular order, such as words in a sentence or frames in a video.

--- Strana 682 ---
You’ll learn why traditional approaches struggled with this type of
data and how transformers solve these challenges. We’ll introduce
the concept of attention, which allows models to focus on relevant
parts of information, much like how you might pay more attention to
key points when reading a complex paragraph.
Next, we’ll break down the components that make transformers so
powerful. You’ll discover how the attention mechanism works,
allowing different parts of a sequence to interact with each other
directly. We’ll explore how transformers process information in
parallel rather than sequentially, making them dramatically faster and
more efficient than previous approaches. We’ll then take a hands-on
approach by implementing transformer components in Keras. You’ll
learn how to build multi-head attention layers and positional
encodings and assemble complete encoder and decoder structures.
Each code example will translate the theoretical concepts into
practical implementation, helping you see how these ideas come to
life in actual models.
[+]  Handling the Complexity of the Models
The concepts underlying transformers are complex. However,
throughout the chapter, we’ll use familiar analogies and clear
explanations to make these complex concepts accessible. We’ll
focus on building intuition about how transformers work and why
they’ve become so essential in modern AI systems. Be sure to
continue reading the chapter even if some concepts don’t make

--- Strana 683 ---
sense. Once you get to the end of the chapter, all of it will come
together.
By the end of this chapter, you’ll have a solid understanding of
transformer architecture and be able to implement your own
transformer-based models for various applications. You’ll appreciate
why these models have become the backbone of modern AI systems
and how they’ve enabled advances that seemed impossible just a
few years ago. The knowledge you gain here will serve as a
foundation for understanding large language models (LLMs) and
other transformer-based systems that are increasingly shaping our
digital experiences. As these models continue to evolve and find new
applications, your understanding of their core architecture will help
you navigate and leverage these powerful tools in your own projects.
Let’s begin by looking at the foundational theory behind the concept
of transformers.
9.1    The Theory Behind Transformers
When we read a sentence, we naturally process it word by word,
building meaning as we go. “The cat sat on the mat” makes perfect
sense, but “mat the on sat cat the” leaves us confused. This simple
observation highlights something profound about language—it’s
inherently sequential, with order carrying as much meaning as the
words themselves. Sequence data surrounds us in our daily lives.
Text messages, stock market trends, weather patterns all unfold over

--- Strana 684 ---
time, with each element’s meaning deeply tied to what came before
and what follows. In the world of machine learning, handling this
sequential nature has been one of the most interesting challenges.
Think about how you understand a novel. As you read, you don’t just
process each word in isolation. You build a mental model that
evolves with each new piece of information. When you encounter the
pronoun “she” in chapter 3, your brain effortlessly connects it to the
character introduced in chapter 1. You’re constantly maintaining
context—remembering what happened before to make sense of
what’s happening now. This contextual understanding is precisely
what makes sequence data so rich and so challenging for machines
to process.
Unlike an image, where all pixels are available simultaneously,
sequence data reveals itself one element at a time. The meaning of
each element depends on its position and its relationships with other
elements in the sequence.
Let’s consider another facet of this complexity. The sentence “The
bank is by the river” uses “bank” to mean the riverside, while “I need
to visit the bank to deposit money” uses the same word to mean a
financial institution. Our understanding of “bank” depends entirely on
the surrounding words—the sequence context in which it appears.
Traditional machine learning approaches struggled with this
sequential dependency. Early models would treat each word
independently, missing the crucial connections between them. It
would be like trying to understand a conversation by hearing random

--- Strana 685 ---
words without their proper order, making it nearly impossible to
extract meaningful information. Even more sophisticated approaches
that attempted to capture some sequence information faced
fundamental limitations. They tended to forget early parts of long
sequences or blend information in ways that lost important
distinctions. It was as if they had a form of digital amnesia, where
distant context gradually faded away. To handle this issue, we need
to be able to handle sequence data—most commonly, time series
data. We’ll begin by exploring what time series data is and how to
handle it efficiently using code.
9.1.1    A Simple Time Series Example
Let’s consider an example of how sequence data can be
represented and manipulated programmatically. This will give us a
concrete foundation for understanding the challenges that
transformers were designed to solve. First, look at some code in
Listing 9.1 that creates sequential data that mimics many real-world
patterns we encounter in language, financial markets, weather
patterns, and more. The first function, create_linear_timeseries(),
builds a sequence of values where each point follows a linear trend
with some randomness mixed in. Consider tracking the temperature
throughout a day—it generally rises from morning to afternoon (that’s
our linear trend with slope 0.5) but with minute-to-minute fluctuations
due to passing clouds or breeze (that’s our random noise). What
makes this a true sequence is that each value builds upon what
came before. The temperature at 2 PM is related to the temperature

--- Strana 686 ---
at 1 PM—it doesn’t suddenly jump from freezing to boiling without
passing through the values in between. This continuity creates the
sequential dependency that’s so characteristic of time series data.
The second function, create_dataset(), transforms our continuous
sequence into something machine learning models can work with.
This is where the true magic happens for sequence modeling. (As
always, you can access the complete working code for these
examples from the supporting page at https://recluze.net/keras-book
in the notebook 09-01-timeseries-intro.)
# Generate a linear time series with some noise
def create_linear_timeseries(n_samples=1000, slope=0.5, 
noise_level=1.0):
    x = np.arange(n_samples)
    # Linear trend with added noise
    y = slope * x + np.random.normal(0, noise_level, n_samples)
    return y
# Create dataset with lookback window
def create_dataset(dataset, look_back=10):
    X, y = [], []
    for i in range(len(dataset) - look_back):
        X.append(dataset[i:(i + look_back)])
        y.append(dataset[i + look_back])
    return np.array(X), np.array(y)  
Listing 9.1     Generating Time Series Data
Think about how you predict the weather. If I asked you, “What will
the temperature be tomorrow?” you wouldn’t just look at today’s
temperature—you’d consider the pattern over the past several days.

--- Strana 687 ---
This is exactly what the lookback window does—it gathers context
from previous time steps to predict the next value. When the code
uses look_back=10, it’s essentially saying, “Here are the
temperatures from the past 10 hours; what will the temperature be in
the next hour?” The function slides this 10-hour window through our
entire dataset, creating input-output pairs:
Input
This is 10 consecutive values from the sequence.
Output
This is the single value that follows them.
We use these functions to transform our data, as shown in
Listing 9.2. This transformation turns our 1D time series into a
supervised learning problem that our models understand. Looking at
the output shapes, we see our training data has dimensions (152,
10, 1), meaning the following:
There are 152 different examples (sliding windows).
Each window contains 10 time steps (our lookback).
Each time step has one feature (just our temperature value).
# Generate our synthetic time series data
np.random.seed(42)  # For reproducibility
timeseries = create_linear_timeseries(n_samples=200)
# Scale the data
scaler = MinMaxScaler(feature_range=(0, 1))
timeseries_scaled = scaler.fit_transform(timeseries.reshape(-1, 
1))

--- Strana 688 ---
# Define lookback window size
look_back = 10
# Create the dataset with lookback windows
X, y = create_dataset(timeseries_scaled.flatten(), look_back)
# Reshape input to be [samples, time steps, features]
X = X.reshape(X.shape[0], X.shape[1], 1)
# Split into train set and test set (80% train, 20% test)
train_size = int(len(X) * 0.8)
X_train, X_test = X[:train_size], X[train_size:]
y_train, y_test = y[:train_size], y[train_size:]
print(f"Training data shape: {X_train.shape}")
print(f"Testing data shape: {X_test.shape}")
print(X_train[1])
print(y_train[1])  
Listing 9.2     Modifying Data to Fit Supervised Learning Models
The sample output in Listing 9.3 shows how one window of 10
values is paired with the single value that follows it. This pattern—
using past context to predict what comes next—is fundamental to
sequence modeling, whether we’re working with text, weather data,
or stock prices.
Training data shape: (152, 10, 1)
Testing data shape: (38, 10, 1)
[[0.        ]
 [0.01302937]

--- Strana 689 ---
 [0.02696443]
 [0.01422656]
 [0.01929276]
 [0.04273179]
 [0.03957283]
 [0.03210641]
 [0.04742646]
 [0.04229986]]
0.04734246731058163  
Listing 9.3     Sample from the Data
Now that we’ve transformed our time series into sequential windows,
we need a model that can find patterns across these time steps. For
this, we can build on all our knowledge of neural networks we’ve
already established, as shown in Listing 9.4. The code builds a
specialized neural network designed to process sequential patterns
—much like how our brains process sentences word by word, but
with the ability to detect patterns across the sequence. Think of this
network as a series of pattern detectors, each layer looking for
increasingly sophisticated relationships in our time data.
Let’s walk through how this model processes our sequence data.
The first layer applies convolutional filters across our time windows.
Consider sliding a spotlight across our 10-step sequence,
illuminating three values at a time (that’s our kernel_size=3). Our
input shape (look_back, 1) represents our 10 time steps, each
containing a single feature value—like having 10 consecutive
temperature readings. For each spotlight position, the model looks
for 64 different patterns—perhaps one detector notices rising trends,

--- Strana 690 ---
another catches sudden drops, and others spot oscillation patterns.
These detectors not only look at individual values but also
understand how values change across multiple time steps. Notice
that this is a 1D convolution. This means that the convolution window
only slides from left to right and has no second dimension to slide
“down.”
The pooling layer condenses our sequence by keeping only the
strongest signals. Our second convolutional layer then detects
higher-level patterns, looking at how these initial features interact
across time. After flattening these patterns, our dense layers
combine everything to produce a single prediction for the next value
in our sequence. The model uses mean squared error to measure
prediction accuracy, continuously refining its understanding of the
sequence relationships during training.
# Build the Keras model (CNN-based)
from keras import layers, models, optimizers
# Define the model - 1D CNN for time series
model = models.Sequential([
    # First convolutional layer
    layers.Conv1D(filters=64, kernel_size=3, activation='relu', 
input_shape=(look_back, 1)),
    layers.MaxPooling1D(pool_size=2),
    # Second convolutional layer
    layers.Conv1D(filters=32, kernel_size=2, 
activation='relu'),
    # Flatten layer to connect to dense layer

--- Strana 691 ---
    layers.Flatten(),
    # Dense hidden layer
    layers.Dense(50, activation='relu'),
    # Output layer
    layers.Dense(1)
])
# Compile the model
model.compile(optimizer='adam', loss='mse')
# Display model architecture
model.summary()  
Listing 9.4     Example Model for Time Series Prediction
[»]  How Is this Used to Model Language?
When we extend this concept to language, each word becomes a
time step, and the lookback window becomes the context we use
to understand or predict text. The same principles that help us
forecast temperatures can help machines understand and
generate human language.
The plot in Figure 9.1 shows the model’s prediction capabilities. The
light wavy line shows our actual time series data with its upward
trend and natural fluctuations. The dark smoother line represents our
model’s predictions on training data, capturing the general upward
pattern while smoothing out the smaller variations. The final portion
of the smooth line beyond timestamp 160 shows predictions on

--- Strana 692 ---
unseen test data. Notice how it maintains the trend but gradually
diverges from actual values, highlighting how prediction errors
compound over time. The model grasps the big picture (the linear
trend) but misses some of the finer details and fluctuations.
Figure 9.1     Predicted Values Based on the Learned Parameters
This demonstrates a key limitation of our windowed approach: with
only 10 previous steps visible at any time, the model can’t capture
relationships that span longer periods. This is exactly the problem
transformers were designed to solve—their architecture allows them
to maintain context across much longer sequences, making
connections between distant elements that traditional models miss.
9.1.2    From Numbers to Words: The Challenge of Text
Data
So far, we’ve explored how our models process numeric sequences
—temperature readings rising and falling, stock prices climbing and
dipping. But what happens when our sequence isn’t made of
numbers but of words? How do we transform “The cat sat on the

--- Strana 693 ---
mat” into something our neural networks can understand? This is a
fundamental challenge. Our models only speak the language of
numbers—they can’t directly process words, emotions, or concepts.
We need to translate the rich tapestry of human language into the
mathematical patterns our models can work with.
You might remember from Chapter 4, Section 4.3.2, that we explored
one-hot encoding as a way to represent categorical data. For text,
this would mean creating a massive vector for each word, with a 1 in
the position corresponding to that word and 0s everywhere else. If
our vocabulary has 50,000 words (quite modest for real-world
applications), each word becomes a vector with 49,999 zeros and a
single 1. This approach has several critical limitations. First, it’s
incredibly inefficient—think of the computational cost of processing
thousands of these sparse, gigantic vectors. It’s like writing a letter
using entire pages for each character—wasteful and unwieldy. More
importantly, one-hot encoding creates no meaningful relationships
between words. In this representation, “king” and “queen” are just as
different from each other as “king” and “bicycle.” Their vectors are
completely orthogonal, with no mathematical relationship reflecting
their semantic connections. It’s a representation that strips away the
beautiful interconnections of language, leaving us with isolated
islands of meaning.
To resolve this major issue, rather than using those sparse one-hot
vectors, we’ll condense words into dense vectors of modest
dimensions—typically between 50 and 300 numbers. These aren’t
random numbers; they’re carefully crafted coordinates that position

--- Strana 694 ---
words in a “meaning space” also known as word embeddings. Let’s
try to break down what this means.
Picture your local library, where books are grouped by their concepts
—romance novels cluster together, scientific textbooks form their
own neighborhood, and cookbooks have their own corner. Now, take
this a step further and imagine a magical, multidimensional library
where all books with similar writing style are close together in one
dimension, all with same underlying philosophy are closer together in
another dimension, and books of similar lengths neighbor each other
in yet another dimension. This is essentially what word embeddings
do for language—they create a multidimensional space where
similar words are neighbors. Depending on what the similarity is
based on, the “closeness” is going to be in a particular dimension of
the embedding space.
In this embedding space, remarkable patterns emerge. Words with
similar meanings cluster together. Even more interestingly, the
relationships between words become encoded as consistent vector
arithmetic. A classic example is vector(king) - vector(man) +
vector(woman) ≈ vector(queen). This means that if we take the value
of the vector in this embedding space corresponding to “king”,
subtract the vector corresponding to “man”—thus essentially
removing that meaning from the word—and then add the vector
corresponding to “woman”, we’ll arrive somewhere in the vicinity of
the word “queen”. The embedding has captured not just word
similarity but complex analogical relationships—the “royal”
relationship, the gender dimension, and how they interact.

--- Strana 695 ---
These embeddings transform our understanding of text data. Instead
of treating each word as an isolated entity, we now have rich,
nuanced representations that capture semantic relationships. Words
become points in a continuous space where distance and direction
have meaning.
9.1.3    GloVe: Learning the Language of Vectors
Among the various approaches to creating such word embeddings,
Global Vectors for Word Representation (GloVe) stands out for its
elegant approach. Developed by researchers at Stanford, GloVe
learns these meaningful word vectors by examining how often words
appear together in text. The core insight behind GloVe is beautifully
simple: Words that appear in similar contexts likely have similar
meanings. If “dog” and “cat” frequently appear near words such as
“pet,” “fur,” and “veterinarian,” they probably share some semantic
relationship—they’re both domestic animals.
We don’t want to go into the details of how GloVe is trained, but we’ll
define the semantics briefly as they are of particular relevance to us.
GloVe captures relationships between words by looking at co-
occurrence statistics across a massive corpus of text. It counts how
often each pair of words appears together within a certain window
size (typically a few words before and after). These counts form a
co-occurrence matrix—a giant table showing how frequently each
word appears near every other word. The model also transforms
these counts using a clever mathematical model that emphasizes

--- Strana 696 ---
meaningful patterns while reducing the impact of pure frequency.
Common words such as “the” and “and” appear frequently with
almost everything, but that doesn’t make them semantically similar to
everything.
The training process adjusts word vectors so that their dot product
relates to the logarithm of their co-occurrence probability. This might
sound complex, but it’s grounded in an intuitive idea. For now, a
deep understanding of the mathematics behind GloVe isn’t
necessary as long as you grasp the following simple concept: This
simple objective function yields vectors with rich linguistic properties.
Words naturally cluster into semantic neighborhoods—tools with
tools, countries with countries, emotions with emotions—creating a
meaningful geometry of language. In this space, vector direction
often captures specific semantic relationships, while vector
magnitude tends to correlate with word specificity or importance.
[+]  The Strengths of GloVe
What makes GloVe particularly powerful is that it balances two
approaches to learning word meaning: global matrix factorization
(looking at the overall statistics of the corpus) and local context
window methods (looking at nearby words). This dual approach
helps it capture both broad statistical patterns and more nuanced
local relationships. You may look up these details if you wish to
explore this fascinating model further.

--- Strana 697 ---
When trained on enough text—billions of words from sources such
as Wikipedia, news articles, and books—GloVe embeddings develop
a remarkable ability to capture semantic relationships. These
pretrained embeddings become a treasure trove of linguistic
knowledge that we can transfer into our own models, giving them a
head start in understanding language. Instead of our models learning
language from scratch, they can build upon these rich
representations, allowing them to focus on the specific task at hand
rather than the fundamentals of language.
Let’s take our understanding of word embeddings beyond theory and
see them in action. As we move toward understanding transformers,
it’s crucial to develop an intuition for how words become vectors in a
meaningful space. This visual exploration will lay the groundwork for
grasping how transformers process and relate words to one another.
The code in Listing 9.5 demonstrates how pretrained GloVe
embeddings (downloaded from the official website) can demonstrate
very revealing relationships between words. These embeddings,
trained on billions of words from across the internet, have captured
semantic connections that we can now visualize and explore. (You
can access the complete working code from the supporting page at
https://recluze.net/keras-book in the notebook 09-02-glove-
embedding.)
The first function, load_glove_embeddings(), is like a librarian
carefully unpacking and organizing a vast collection of knowledge. It
reads through the GloVe file, where each line contains a word
followed by its vector coordinates—typically 100 numbers that

--- Strana 698 ---
position it in a high-dimensional semantic space. The function
creates a dictionary mapping each word to its vector, giving us easy
access to this linguistic treasure trove.
# do imports 
 # download pretrained glove embeddings from   url = 
"http://nlp.stanford.edu/data/glove.6B.zip"
def load_glove_embeddings(filepath="glove.6B.100d.txt"):
    embeddings_index = {}
    with open(filepath, encoding="utf8") as f:
        for line in f:
            values = line.split()
            word = values[0]
            vector = np.asarray(values[1:], dtype="float32")
            embeddings_index[word] = vector
    return embeddings_index  
Listing 9.5     Loading Pretrained GloVe Embeddings
The second function, visualize_words(), shown in Listing 9.6, takes
these 100-dimensional vectors and transforms them into something
we can actually see. Consider trying to visualize a 100-dimensional
space—our minds simply can’t grasp that many dimensions at once.
This is where dimensionality reduction comes in. Our code uses
Principal Component Analysis (PCA) to downgrade our data to two
important dimensions—the directions that capture the most variance
and, hopefully, the most meaning.

--- Strana 699 ---
[»]  Options for Dimensionality Reduction
While our code uses PCA, we could also employ t-distributed
Stochastic Neighbor Embedding (t-SNE) for dimensionality
reduction, as mentioned in the commented code. It’s worth noting
that this reduction to 2D is purely for our visualization and
understanding—it’s not something done in practice when using
embeddings in actual models. The real power comes from the full
high-dimensional representations where subtle relationships can
be preserved without compression. Our visualization is just a
window into a much richer semantic space, such as viewing a 3D
object through its 2D shadow.
This visual representation helps us grasp a fundamental concept that
will be critical when we discuss transformers: words exist in a
continuous space where proximity and direction have meaning.
def visualize_words(word_pairs, embeddings_index):
    # Flatten pairs to unique word list
    all_words = list({w for pair in word_pairs for w in pair})
    valid_words = [word for word in all_words if word in 
embeddings_index]
    vectors = np.array([embeddings_index[word] for word in 
valid_words])
    # PCA reduction. alternative option for reduction to 2D 
    pca = PCA(n_components=2)
    vectors_2d = pca.fit_transform(vectors)
    # Map words to 2D coordinates

--- Strana 700 ---
    word_to_2d = dict(zip(valid_words, vectors_2d))
    # ... plot the vectors 
    # Draw arrows for word pairs
    for source, target in word_pairs:
        if source in word_to_2d and target in word_to_2d:
            src = word_to_2d[source]
            tgt = word_to_2d[target]
            plt.arrow(src[0], src[1], tgt[0] - src[0], tgt[1] - 
src[1],
                      head_width=0.0, 
length_includes_head=True, color='blue', alpha=0.7)
    # ... 
  
Listing 9.6     Visualizing Embeddings in Lower Dimensions
Let’s look at what happens when we access a specific word from our
GloVe embeddings, as shown in Listing 9.7.
print(embeddings_index["nephew"])
print("Shape:", embeddings_index["nephew"].shape)
# output: [ 0.60233  -0.75386   …  ]
# Shape: (100,)  
Listing 9.7     Example of a Word Embedding
This output gives us a peek into how “nephew” exists in our semantic
universe. What we’re seeing is a snippet of the 100-dimensional
vector for this word—a numerical fingerprint that captures its
meaning in our embedding space. The shape (100,) tells us that
“nephew” is represented by exactly 100 floating-point numbers. Each

--- Strana 701 ---
of these numbers positions the word along a different dimension in
our semantic space. Some values are positive (e.g., 0.60233),
pulling the word in one direction, while others are negative
(-0.75386), pulling it in another. Think of each number as a subtle
influence on where “nephew” sits in relation to other words. The
positive values might align it with family-related concepts, while
negative values might distance it from unrelated domains such as
technology or sports. Together, these 100 coordinates place
“nephew” in a precise location where it’s appropriately close to words
such as “uncle,” “family,” and “relative,” but far from unrelated
concepts.
When our models work with text, they don’t see the word “nephew”—
they see this vector, this constellation of values that contains rich
information about the word’s meaning and its relationships to other
concepts in our language. We can visualize some word pairs using
our function as in Listing 9.8. This produces the plot shown in
Figure 9.2.
word_pairs = [
    ("nephew", "niece"),
    ("man", "woman"),
]
visualize_words(word_pairs, embeddings_index)  
Listing 9.8     Visualizing Example Words
This visualization beautifully reveals one of the most interesting
properties of word embeddings—they capture meaningful linguistic
relationships as geometric patterns in vector space. What we’re

--- Strana 702 ---
seeing is a 2D projection of the 100-dimensional word vectors for
two pairs: “nephew”/“niece” and “man”/“woman.” The lines connect
these related pairs, and something remarkable emerges—the arrows
are nearly parallel! This isn’t a coincidence. It’s a profound
demonstration of how GloVe embeddings have captured consistent
semantic relationships.
The parallel arrows show that the mathematical relationship between
“nephew” and “niece” is strikingly similar to the relationship between
“man” and “woman.” In other words, the gender concept is encoded
as a consistent direction in the embedding space. The vector math
“nephew - niece” points in roughly the same direction as “man -
woman”, revealing how the embedding has learned to recognize
gender as a fundamental semantic dimension. What’s even more
remarkable is that this pattern wasn’t explicitly programmed—it
emerged naturally from analyzing word co-occurrences in text. The
embeddings discovered that these word pairs share a common
relationship type.
Figure 9.2     2D Projection of Word Embeddings of Related Words

--- Strana 703 ---
This visualization gives us a glimpse into how transformers “think”
about words when processing language. Rather than treating words
as isolated symbols, transformers use these rich geometric
relationships, allowing them to understand nuanced connections
between concepts that would be impossible with simpler
representation methods. These embeddings, especially models such
as GLoVe, capture remarkable semantic relationships between
words. However, there’s a fundamental limitation we need to
address.
9.1.4    A Gentle Introduction to Attention
Consider this simple sentence: “The umbrella was wet, so it had to
be left outside.” What does “it” refer to in this context? As humans,
we instantly understand that “it” refers to the umbrella. But a fixed
embedding vector for “it” would be the same regardless of whether
“it” refers to an umbrella, a cat, a computer, or anything else. The
embedding alone doesn’t capture this contextual relationship. Let’s
look at another example that highlights this problem: “At the zoo, the
seal balanced a ball on its nose.”
In GLoVe or similar embedding systems, the word “seal” would have
a specific vector representation that attempts to capture all the
possible meanings of the word “seal”—the marine animal, a wax
stamp, the act of sealing something, and so on. But in this specific
context, we know it refers to the animal because of the surrounding
words “zoo,” “balanced,” and “nose.” Our understanding of “seal” is

--- Strana 704 ---
influenced by paying attention to these contextual clues. This is the
core idea behind attention mechanisms—allowing our models to pay
attention to relevant parts of the input when producing each part of
the output. It’s actually exactly like shining a spotlight on particular
words that matter most for understanding the current word or phrase.
In this section, we’ll take a look at how we can put that spotlight on
using mathematical constructs that can be implemented using Keras.
We’ll see the need for context-aware representations and how to
enable our code to create these representations.
The Need for Context-Aware Representations
Traditional recurrent neural networks (RNN; no longer used actively)
tried to solve this by passing information forward through a
sequence, but they struggled with long-range dependencies. The
information from words at the beginning of a long sentence would
often be forgotten by the time the model reached the end. Attention
mechanisms revolutionized this approach by creating direct
pathways between different positions in a sequence. Instead of
relying solely on sequential processing, attention allows any word to
directly influence the representation of any other word, regardless of
their distance in the sequence.
At its simplest, attention works by computing a score between the
word currently being focused on (often called the query) and every
other word in the context (the keys). These scores indicate how
much attention should be paid to each contextual word when

--- Strana 705 ---
representing the current word. Let’s break this down with our “seal”
example:
When processing the word “seal”, our model computes attention
scores between this and every other word in the sentence (“At,”
“the,” “zoo,” “balanced,” etc.).
Words such as “zoo,” “balanced,” and “nose” would receive higher
attention scores because they’re more relevant to determining that
“seal” refers to the animal.
The model then creates a weighted sum of all the word vectors,
where the weights are determined by these attention scores.
This weighted sum becomes the context-aware representation of
“seal” that captures not just the word itself but also its relationship
to the surrounding context.
The beauty of this approach is that it allows the model to pay
attention to different parts of the input depending on what’s currently
being processed. When handling the word “seal,” attention to “zoo”
helps disambiguate its meaning. When processing “ball,” attention
might shift more toward “balanced” to understand what’s happening
with the ball.
Self-Attention: The Core of Transformers
To dig a bit deeper into this concept, let’s see how the transformer
architecture handles what is called self-attention. In self-attention,
every word in a sequence attends to every other word, creating rich,

--- Strana 706 ---
context-aware representations for each position. If we visualize this
process, it’s as if each word sends out question marks to all other
words, asking, “How relevant are you to my semantics?” Each word
then returns an answer, and these answers are combined to create a
more informed representation. Figure 9.3 demonstrates how the
word “seal” transforms as it gathers context from surrounding words
in the sentence, “At the zoo, the seal balanced a ball on its nose.”
The visualization shows this process through two key elements.
Figure 9.3     Self-Attention Between Words in a Sentence
First, at the top of the image, we see the full sentence with words
and arrows connecting “seal” to contextually related words “zoo,”
“ball,” and “nose.” These arrows represent attention—how the model
learns which words are important for understanding “seal” in this
specific context. Below this, we see the progressive enrichment of
the word “seal” as it accumulates contextual information. Starting
with just the word “seal,” which could have multiple meanings, the

--- Strana 707 ---
representation gradually becomes more specific by adding context:
“seal at a zoo,” then “seal at a zoo with a ball,” and finally the
complete context, including “on its nose.” More precisely, the vector
representations change with each step, reflecting how the
mathematical embedding of “seal” shifts as it absorbs information
from related words. This is the essence of contextual embedding—
the meaning of “seal” becomes increasingly refined and specific to
“the animal performing in a zoo” rather than “a wax stamp” or “to
close tightly.”
This process quite precisely mirrors our own human understanding.
We naturally resolve ambiguities by paying attention to context. The
visualization shows how modern NLP models do something similar,
creating dynamic representations of words that change based on
their surroundings—a fundamental improvement over fixed word
embeddings that revolutionized how machines understand language.
The transformation from fixed embeddings to attention-based
representations marks a profound shift in how we model language.
With fixed embeddings such as GLoVe, words have static meanings.
With attention, words have fluid representations that adapt based on
their surroundings.
Understanding Attention Through the Internal Matrix
Representation
Let’s examine how attention mechanisms work in transformer
models internally. Attention is modeled essentially as a map, as

--- Strana 708 ---
depicted in Figure 9.4, showing how words “look at” each other in
our example sentence. This visualization is called an attention
matrix. Think of it as a relationship map between every word in our
sentence. Each row represents a word that might provide
information, and each column represents a word that’s asking for
information or paying attention. The highlighted squares show the
strength of these relationships—darker shades indicate high
attention (strong connection), intermediate shades show medium
attention, light represents low attention, and white means no
attention at all. The diagonal line running from top-left to bottom-right
represents each word’s attention to itself, which makes sense—a
word’s own identity is certainly relevant to understanding it!
This attention-based approach solves a fundamental challenge in
language processing. Words don’t exist in isolation—they derive
meaning from their surroundings. The attention matrix visualizes
exactly how models capture these contextual relationships.
After the attention scores are calculated, the model uses these
attention weights to create a weighted sum of all relevant word
embeddings. For the word “seal,” it takes its original embedding but
enhances it with information from “zoo,” “balanced,” “ball,” “its,” and

--- Strana 709 ---
“nose”—with the contribution of each proportional to its attention
score.
Figure 9.4     Self-Attention Represented as an Upper Triangular Matrix
[»]  Iterative Deepening in Understanding Transformers
Due to the complex nature of transformers, we’ll use an iterative
deepening approach to understanding them. We’ll continually
return to the core concepts in more and more details so that you
can fully understand them. The repetition of important ideas is
intended!

--- Strana 710 ---
9.1.5    Why Transformers Revolutionized Natural
Language Processing and Beyond
In this section, we’ll explore the second reason why transformers
revolutionized natural language processing (NLP) and how their
ability to process sequences in parallel provided another significant
advantage over previous architectures.
Before transformers arrived on the scene in 2017, NLP was like a
relay race. Models would process text one word at a time, passing
information from the beginning of a sentence all the way to the end.
While this approach worked to some extent, it had some serious
limitations that hindered progress due to this sequential nature of
processing. Enter the transformer architecture, which completely
reimagined how machines understand language, and the results
were nothing short of revolutionary.
Breaking the Sequential Bottleneck
Imagine trying to understand a book by only being allowed to read
one sentence at a time, and once you’ve moved on, you can only
rely on your memory of what came before. That’s essentially how
traditional models such as RNNs and Long Short-Term Memory
(LSTM) networks worked—they processed text sequentially, word by
word. This created a bottleneck where information from earlier in a
sequence would gradually fade or become distorted as it traveled
through the chain. Transformers shattered this limitation. Instead of
processing words one after another, like reading a sentence from left

--- Strana 711 ---
to right, transformers look at all words simultaneously—more like
taking in an entire page at once. This parallel processing is gives our
models the ability to see the whole context at a glance, allowing
them to make connections between words regardless of how far
apart they appear in the text.
The real magic of transformers lies in how they understand long-
distance relationships. Traditional models struggled to connect words
that were far apart in a sentence. Consider this example: “The
restaurant, which had just opened last month on the corner of First
Avenue and Main Street, serves amazing pasta.” By the time older
models reached “serves,” they might have already forgotten details
about “the restaurant” from the beginning of the sentence.
Transformers, with their attention mechanisms, can directly link
“restaurant” and “serves” regardless of the distance between them.
Due to this important distinction, perhaps the most profound impact
of transformers has been their ability to scale. Before transformers,
making language models bigger often yielded significantly
diminishing returns—they’d get only marginally better despite
significant increases in size and training data. Transformers changed
this equation dramatically.
As researchers made transformer models larger and fed them more
data, their capabilities didn’t just improve incrementally—they
exploded with new abilities. Models started to demonstrate skills they
weren’t explicitly designed for, from solving math problems to writing
creative fiction. It was as if crossing certain thresholds of scale
unlocked entirely new realms of capability, similar to how adding

--- Strana 712 ---
more pieces to a puzzle eventually reveals the complete picture
rather than just a clearer version of a partial one.
Beyond Text: Transformers Go Multimodal
The influence of transformers quickly spread beyond just text
processing. Their flexible architecture proved remarkably adaptable
to other types of data. Soon, we saw transformer-based models
handling images, audio, video, and even protein sequences with the
same underlying principles. This cross-domain success revealed that
the way transformers process relationships and patterns is
fundamental to many different types of information processing, not
just language. It’s a bit like discovering a universal key that unlocks
doors across many different buildings.
What truly set transformers apart from previous breakthroughs was
how quickly they moved from research papers to practical
applications. Within just a few years, transformer-based models were
powering translation services, writing assistants, code completion
tools, and even creative art generators that millions of people use
daily. This rapid translation from theory to practice happened
because transformers didn’t just offer incremental improvements—
they fundamentally changed what was possible. Tasks that were
once considered extraordinarily difficult suddenly became
approachable, opening doors to applications that previously seemed
decades away. As we dive deeper into the inner workings of
transformers in the coming sections, we’ll unpack exactly how their

--- Strana 713 ---
key components work together to achieve these remarkable
capabilities. Even before we get to the mathematical details, it’s
worth appreciating how this architecture represented not an
incremental improvement but a genuine paradigm shift in AI—one
whose ripple effects continue to expand across science, technology,
and society at large.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 714 ---
9.2    Components: Attention Mechanism,
Encoder, Decoder
Now that we’ve established the foundations of transformers and the
attention mechanism, it’s time to peek under the hood and examine
the powerful machinery that makes these models work. In this
section, we’ll explore the core components that give transformers
their remarkable abilities—breaking down complex structures into
understandable pieces that will make our future Keras
implementations feel like assembling familiar building blocks rather
than wrestling with mysterious black boxes. We’ll start by
demystifying the attention mechanism, that clever innovation that
allows transformers to focus on relevant information across a
sequence. You’ll discover how the deceptively simple concept of
query, key, and value transforms the way models process language.
From there, we’ll explore positional encodings (solving the puzzle of
how transformers understand word order when looking at everything
all at once) and then examine both encoder and decoder
architectures in detail. By the time we reach Keras implementation in
the next section, you’ll have developed an intuitive understanding of
these components that will make the surprisingly concise code feel
like a natural extension of the concepts rather than an intimidating
jumble of functions and classes.

--- Strana 715 ---
9.2.1    The Conversation Between Words
Self-attention creates a sort of “internal conversation” within a
sentence, allowing each word to interact with every other word
directly. Let’s break down how this conversation works using a
practical example.
Consider our original sentence: “The seal swims in the zoo
enclosure.” In traditional models, words would be processed one
after another, making it difficult to connect “seal” with “zoo” because
they’re separated by several words. But self-attention changes this
entirely by letting every word directly communicate with every other
word, regardless of distance. The first step in self-attention involves
each word asking a question—posing a query. When we say a word
“asks a question,” we’re using a helpful metaphor for what’s
happening mathematically. Behind the scenes, the model transforms
each word’s embedding (its numerical representation) into a query
vector through a learned transformation. Take the word “seal” in our
example. It might be posing queries like “Where am I located?” or
“What am I doing?” These aren’t literal questions, of course, but
representations that help the model understand relationships. Each
word gets transformed into its own unique query based on both the
word itself and what the model has learned about language during
training. The word “swims” might generate a query focused on
finding a subject, while “zoo” might generate a query looking for
related entities.

--- Strana 716 ---
While every word is asking questions, they’re simultaneously
presenting information about themselves through what we call keys.
Again, this isn’t a literal presentation but another transformation of
the word embeddings. In our example, the word “zoo” might present
a key that essentially says, “I’m a location” or “I’m an enclosure for
animals.” The word “seal” might present a key that says, “I’m an
animal” or “I’m a potential swimmer.” These keys allow words to
respond to the queries from other words. When a query from one
word aligns well with a key from another word, the model recognizes
there’s an important relationship to capture. We need to somehow
create a link between these keys and queries. In the rest of this
section, we’ll see how we can enable this link.
The Matchmaking Process
This is the crucial part where queries meet keys—a kind of
matchmaking process. For each word’s query, the model compares it
against the keys of all words in the sentence. When a query and key
align well (mathematically, they have a high dot product), it indicates
these words should pay attention to each other. In our example, the
query from “seal” asking “Where am I located?” would match
strongly with the key from “zoo” saying “I’m a location.” Similarly, the
query from “swims” looking for a subject would match strongly with
the key from “seal” identifying as an animal. This matching process
creates what we call attention scores—numbers that represent how
much each word should focus on every other word. Higher scores
mean stronger connections.

--- Strana 717 ---
After generating these scores, the model normalizes them (using a
softmax function) to create a probability distribution. These
probabilities determine how much each word’s information
contributes to the updated representation of the current word. Going
back to our example, when processing “seal,” the model might
determine it should pay:
60% attention to itself (to maintain its core meaning)
25% attention to “zoo” (to understand its location)
10% attention to “swims” (to capture its action)
5% distributed, among other words
These attention weights help create rich, context-aware
representations for each word. The word “seal” now carries
information not just about being a seal but about being a-seal-that-
swims-in-a-zoo-enclosure.
How does the model know what questions to ask or what information
to present? That’s where the whole concept of gradient descent
steps in. The transformations that create queries and keys aren’t
fixed—they’re parameters represented through matrices and learned
during training through gradient descent.
To recall the concept from Chapter 3, initially these transformations
will be random, producing nonsensical attention patterns. But as the
model trains on millions of examples, it gradually refines these
transformations. When the model makes a mistake in prediction,
backpropagation adjusts the transformations to produce better

--- Strana 718 ---
queries and keys. Over time, the model discovers that certain types
of queries and keys lead to more accurate predictions and lower
loss. Perhaps it learns that verbs should generate queries that look
for subjects or that pronouns should generate queries that look for
their referents. This is the true power of self-attention—it doesn’t
connect words based on predefined rules. Instead, it learns which
connections matter for understanding language. The model figures
out on its own that “seal” should pay attention to “zoo” because this
relationship helps it better predict and understand text. Following this
simple (though compute intensive) mechanism, by the end of training
our transformer has developed a sophisticated system for
determining which words should attend to which other words, all
learned from data rather than programmed by humans.
The Mathematics of the Query, Key, Value Concept
While understanding the underlying mathematics isn’t strictly
necessary to use these models, it really helps debug issues when
they inevitably arise in practice. It also enables you to come up with
more novel models in the future if you have a deeper understanding
of the concepts. So, let’s dedicate some time to understanding the
underlying mechanism of how the transformers actually make
everything work.
Consider the scenario in which you’re searching for a book in a vast
library. You approach the information desk with a question: “Do you
have any books about deep learning?” This is your query. The

--- Strana 719 ---
librarian consults a catalog system (the keys) to find matching
entries, then retrieves valuable books (the values) that best answer
your question. This everyday interaction mirrors exactly how self-
attention works in transformers. In our model, each word in a
sentence creates its own query, key, and value through separate
transformations of its initial embedding. When the model processes
“The cat sat on the mat,” the word “cat” generates:
A query vector that essentially asks, “Which words are most
relevant to understanding me?”
A key vector that advertises what information “cat” contains that
might be useful to other words
A value vector that holds the actual content “cat” will contribute to
other words
Mathematically, we can express this transformation as:
Where $X$ represents our input word embeddings, and 
, 
,
and 
 are learned weight matrices. Notice that the superscript
notation doesn’t mean exponentiation. They are just indices for
matrices to differentiate them from each other. These matrices are
the tools our model uses to transform each word into its three
different roles. Think of them as different lenses through which the
model views the same word, each bringing certain aspects into focus
while blurring others. The beauty of this approach is that every word
simultaneously plays all three roles—questioner, answerer, and

--- Strana 720 ---
information carrier—creating a rich web of connections throughout
the sentence.
Scaled Dot-Product Attention
Now that we have our queries, keys, and values, let’s see how these
three interact with each other. This is enabled by the scaled dot-
product attention—the mathematical engine that powers the
connections between words. Let’s return to our library metaphor.
Imagine your query about deep learning books gets compared
against thousands of catalog entries (keys) simultaneously. Some
entries match your query perfectly, others partially, and many not at
all. The librarian then creates a weighted collection of books, giving
you more volumes that match your query closely and fewer that
match only tangentially. In transformer models, this process happens
through mathematical operations that might sound complex but
embody a straightforward idea:
For each word’s query, we compute how well it matches with
every word’s key through a dot product. Think of this as measuring
the alignment between what one word is asking for and what
another word is offering.
These alignment scores determine how much attention each word
should pay to every other word. High scores mean strong
connections; low scores mean weak ones.
We then apply a scaling factor—dividing by the square root of the
dimension size. This might seem like a nonessential detail, but it’s

--- Strana 721 ---
crucial. Without scaling, as our embeddings get larger, the dot
products grow too large, pushing our attention weights toward
extremes and making learning difficult.
Finally, these scaled scores pass through a softmax function,
turning them into a probability distribution that sums to 1. This
ensures our attention is properly normalized—each word
distributes 100% of its focus across all words in the sentence.
The complete formula for scaled dot-product attention is
Where dk is the dimension of the key vectors. The division by 
 is
our scaling factor, preventing those dot products from growing too
large as dimensions increase. The softmax function then converts
these scaled scores into probabilities that sum to 1. Finally, we
multiply by V to get a weighted sum of value vectors—each value
contributing in proportion to how relevant its corresponding key was
to our query. Thus, each word now has a nuanced understanding of
its relationship with every other word in the sentence. This final
resulting matrix is known as an attention head.
Multi-Head Attention
If scaled dot-product attention gives our model one lens through
which to view relationships between words, multi-head attention
provides multiple perspectives simultaneously—like viewing a 3D
sculpture from different angles to appreciate its full complexity. Think

--- Strana 722 ---
about how you understand a conversation. You’re simultaneously
tracking the literal meaning of words, the emotional tone, cultural
references, and perhaps unstated implications. You’re paying
attention in multiple ways at once. Multi-head attention works
similarly. Rather than performing attention just once, the model
creates several attention heads, each with its own set of learned
parameters. Each head might focus on different aspects of
language:
One head might focus on syntactic relationships (subjects and
verbs).
Another might capture semantic connections (related concepts).
A third might track long-distance dependencies (connecting a
pronoun to its referent).
Yet another might attend to idiomatic expressions.
Mathematically, multi-head attention is defined as
where each head is computed as
Each head has its own set of learned projection matrices—
, 
,
and 
—that create different subspace representations of the
queries, keys, and values. The final 
 matrix combines these
various perspectives into a coherent output. Each head processes
the same input independently, producing its own attention patterns.

--- Strana 723 ---
Then, like advisors presenting different perspectives to a decision-
maker, the outputs from all heads are combined into a final
representation. This multi-perspective approach gives transformers
remarkable flexibility in how they process language.
What’s particularly elegant about this design is that the model
doesn’t need to be explicitly told what types of relationships each
head should focus on. By randomly initializing matrix values and
through training on vast amounts of text, each head naturally
specializes in whatever patterns prove useful for predicting the next
word or understanding the input. The model discovers on its own
that tracking subject-verb relationships or semantic connections
helps minimize prediction errors.
Multi-head attention transforms what could have been a 1D view of
language into a rich, multifaceted understanding—and it does this
through an architectural design that’s surprisingly simple yet
extraordinarily effective. By the time a sentence passes through
these attention mechanisms, each word has been enriched with
contextual information from every other word, all weighted by
relevance and viewed through multiple specialized lenses.
9.2.2    Why Position Information Matters
The self-attention mechanism gives transformers their power to
connect any word with any other word, regardless of distance, by
looking at the complete set of input words in one go. But this
strength comes with a curious weakness—it has no built-in way to

--- Strana 724 ---
understand the sequential nature of language. When processing the
sentence “The dog chased the cat,” the self-attention mechanism
sees six word vectors but has no inherent way to know that “dog”
comes before “chased” or that “chased” comes before “cat.” This
creates a serious problem. The sentences “The dog chased the cat”
and “The cat chased the dog” contain exactly the same words but tell
completely different stories. Without position information, our
transformer would process these sentences identically, which would
be disastrous for understanding language.
Think about how differently we interpret these sentences:
“Max said Anna is clever.” (Max is making a statement about
Anna.)
“Anna said Max is clever.” (Anna is making a statement about
Max.)
Or consider how word order affects meaning in these examples:
“He ate only vegetables.” (He consumed vegetables and nothing
else.)
“He only ate vegetables” (Eating was all he did with the
vegetables, rather than, say, growing them.)
Even subtleties like these depend entirely on knowing the positions
of words relative to each other. In language, order often completely
determines the meaning rather than just affecting it slightly.
Traditional sequence models such as RNNs and LSTMs naturally
captured position because they processed words one after another,

--- Strana 725 ---
carrying forward information about what came before. But
transformers process all words simultaneously—giving them
remarkable speed and parallelization capabilities while creating this
positional blindness.
Therefore, position information has to be explicitly injected into each
word embedding. This positional encoding needs to satisfy several
key requirements:
It must be unique for each position, so the model can distinguish
different positions.
It must have a consistent pattern so the model can generalize to
sequence lengths it hasn’t seen during training.
The distance between positions must be reflected consistently in
the encoding.
It can’t disrupt the meaningful content in the original word
embeddings.
Let’s look at how these objectives can be met in an efficient manner
in the following sections.
Sinusoidal vs. Learned Encodings
When it came to designing these positional encodings, researchers
faced a fundamental choice: should they create a fixed mathematical
function to generate position vectors (sinusoidal encodings), or
should they let the model learn the optimal position representations
during training (learned encodings)? The original transformer paper

--- Strana 726 ---
introduced an elegant approach using sine and cosine functions of
different frequencies. Picture a collection of waves, some oscillating
rapidly and others more slowly. By combining these waves in specific
ways, we can create a unique pattern for each position that still
maintains a consistent relationship between positions. The equation
looks like
Where pos is the position of the word in the sequence, i indicates the
dimension within the embedding, and d is the embedding size.
These sinusoidal functions create an interesting pattern. Each
position gets encoded as a vector with values oscillating between -1
and 1, with different dimensions oscillating at different frequencies.
What makes this approach particularly clever is that it allows the
model to extrapolate to sequence lengths longer than it saw during
training. The mathematical pattern extends naturally to new positions
because it’s based on a continuous function rather than discrete
learned values. It’s like teaching someone to count by explaining the
pattern (add one each time) rather than having them memorize each
number separately.
Another advantage is that the model can easily compute relative
positions. The positional encoding for position 
 can be
expressed as a linear function of the encoding at position 
. This
mathematical property helps the model understand relationships like
“two words apart” or “five words before” in a consistent way across
different parts of the sentence.

--- Strana 727 ---
Learned Encodings: Flexibility Through Data
The alternative approach is conceptually simpler: Just let the model
learn the optimal position embeddings during training, the same way
it learns word embeddings. We create a positional embedding table
where each position gets its own vector that the model updates
through gradient descent. At first glance, learned positions might
seem preferable: Why constrain ourselves to a specific mathematical
function when we could let the data determine the optimal
representation? After all, learned positional encodings offer some
significant advantages:
They can potentially capture language-specific positional patterns.
They directly optimize for whatever works best on the training
data.
They’re simpler to implement and understand conceptually.
However, they come with a significant limitation: They don’t naturally
extend beyond the sequence lengths seen during training. If we train
with sequences of at most 512 tokens (as in the original Bidirectional
Encoder Representations from Transformers [BERT] model), what
happens when we encounter the 513th token? The model has no
encoding for this position. This limitation explains why many
transformer models have maximum sequence lengths—they simply
don’t have learned positional encodings beyond that point. Some
implementations address this by using relative positional encodings
or by extrapolating from learned positions, but these are
workarounds for an inherent limitation. In practice, both approaches

--- Strana 728 ---
work well, and there’s ongoing research and debate about which is
optimal in different circumstances. Many modern transformer
implementations, including popular models such as BERT, actually
use learned positional encodings despite their limitations, while
others stick with the original sinusoidal approach.
What’s more important to note here is that this seemingly technical
choice reflects a deeper philosophical question in machine learning:
Is it better to build in mathematical structure based on our
understanding of the problem, or to let the model learn everything
from data? The positional encoding debate is just one instance of
this broader question that appears throughout deep learning.
Regardless of the specific approach, the key insight remains: By
adding positional information to each word embedding (whether
through sinusoidal functions or learned vectors), transformers gain
the ability to understand sequences while maintaining their parallel
processing advantage. This clever solution to the position problem
completed the foundation for transformer models to revolutionize
NLP and beyond.
9.2.3    Encoder Structure: The Information Processing
Powerhouse
With word embeddings enriched by positional information, we now
have the essential ingredients for our transformer model. But
embeddings alone aren’t enough—they merely serve as the starting
point. The real magic happens in the encoder structure, where these

--- Strana 729 ---
position-aware word representations are transformed into deeply
contextual encodings that capture the nuanced relationships
between words. The encoder is where words begin to truly
understand each other, where “bank” in a financial context becomes
distinctly different from “bank” in a river context despite starting with
the same embedding. Let’s examine the sophisticated machinery
that enables this contextual understanding in the following sections,
beginning with the core components that make up the encoder
structure.
Multi-Head Attention Layers: The Relationship Builders
We’ve already explored how multi-head attention creates
connections between words, but now, let’s see how it fits into the
bigger picture of the encoder. The multi-head attention layer is like a
relationship counselor for words—helping each word understand its
connections to every other word in the sentence. When “bank”
appears in “I deposited money in the bank,” the attention mechanism
helps it connect strongly to words like “deposited” and “money,”
nudging it toward its financial meaning rather than its river-related
one. In the encoder, this multi-head attention operates in self-
attention mode—each word attending to all words (including itself) in
the same input sequence. It’s like each person in a conversation
considering everyone else’s contributions before formulating their
own understanding. The architecture of the encoder can be seen
concisely in Figure 9.5.

--- Strana 730 ---
The mathematical machinery works exactly as we discussed earlier
—queries meeting keys, creating attention scores, and using these
to blend value vectors. But the critical point is what this
accomplishes: it transforms a sequence of independent word
embeddings into a web of contextually connected representations.
After passing through this layer, each word’s representation now
contains traces of other relevant words. The word “bank” now carries
echoes of “money” and “deposited” in its encoding, fundamentally
transforming its representation based on its surroundings. After
words have shared information through attention, each word gets a
chance for some individual processing through a feed-forward
network. This is a simple yet powerful neural network applied
independently to each position. Based on this dense connectivity,
each word carries all the context it gathered from other words and
will now process this information individually. Structurally, these feed-
forward networks are typical dense connections specified using the
formula:

--- Strana 731 ---
Figure 9.5     Encoder Architecture
The first transformation usually expands the representation into a
larger inner dimension, the ReLU activation adds nonlinearity
(allowing for complex patterns), and the second transformation
projects back to the original dimension size. This is just an
application of two feed-forward layers to the word embeddings.
Intriguingly, while these networks process each position
independently (the same way for each word regardless of what
surrounds it), they’re still critical for the model’s expressiveness.
They give the transformer the computational capacity to make
complex decisions based on the context that attention has already
gathered.

--- Strana 732 ---
Layer Normalization and Residual Connections: The Flow
Controllers
Now, we come to two technical yet crucial components that might
seem like mere plumbing details but actually make the difference
between a transformer that works brilliantly and one that fails to
learn. The first one, Layer normalization is like a sound equalizer that
ensures all frequencies remain in a balanced range. For each
position in the sequence, it normalizes the values across features to
have zero mean and unit variance as in
where  and  are the mean and standard deviation computed
across the feature dimension, while  and  are learnable
parameters. Layer norms are absolutely critical because neural
networks can suffer from the issue of internal covariate shift in which
the distribution of activations changes as the network learns, making
training unstable. Layer normalization addresses this by keeping
activations in a consistent range, helping gradients flow smoothly
during training. In practical terms, it’s ensuring each word’s
representation stays within reasonable bounds, preventing any
feature from becoming excessively dominant. This makes training
more stable and often faster.
The second aspect, residual connections (or skip connections) are
perhaps the most elegant innovation in the transformer architecture.
We discussed residual connections in detail in Chapter 8,

--- Strana 733 ---
Section 8.2.6. To recall briefly, in deep networks, information and
gradients can struggle to flow through many layers—leading to the
vanishing gradient problem. Residual connections create highways
for both forward information and backward gradients, enabling the
training of much deeper networks. For transformers specifically,
residual connections ensure that the original word information isn’t
lost amid all the contextual updates. The word “bank” remains
fundamentally “bank” even as it gathers financial context—the core
meaning persists while being enriched rather than replaced.
When we combine these components—multi-head attention, feed-
forward networks, layer normalization, and residual connections—we
get a complete encoder layer:
1. Input embeddings pass through layer normalization.
2. They flow into multi-head self-attention.
3. The output is added back to the original input (residual
connection).
4. This sum is normalized again.
5. It passes through the feed-forward network.
6. Another residual connection adds the feed-forward output back
to its input.
7. A final layer normalization produces the output of the encoder
layer.

--- Strana 734 ---
The full encoder typically stacks 6–12 of these layers (or more in
larger models), with each layer building upon the contextual
representations created by the previous one. The early layers might
capture basic syntactic relationships, while deeper layers develop
more sophisticated semantic understanding.
This progressive refinement transforms our initial word embeddings
into deeply contextual representations—words that now fully
understand their place in the sentence, carrying rich information
about their relationships to all other words. It’s remarkable how these
relatively simple components when arranged just so, create a
system capable of understanding language with unprecedented
sophistication. The transformer encoder is a testament to how
structural elegance can unlock extraordinary capabilities.
9.2.4    Decoder Structure: Creating New Sequences from
Understanding
After the encoder, let’s turn our attention to the second very
important aspect of a transformer architecture. While the encoder
transforms input sequences into rich contextual representations, the
decoder tackles a different challenge—generating output sequences
one element at a time. Think of the encoder as a reader deeply
understanding a text, while the decoder is a writer crafting a
response based on that understanding. This powerful pairing
enables transformers to perform tasks such as translation,
summarization, and question answering with remarkable fluency.

--- Strana 735 ---
The decoder shares many architectural similarities with the encoder,
using similar building blocks but arranged in a subtly different way.
These differences are crucial in addressing the unique challenges of
sequence generation. In this section, we’ll explore the two key
innovations that make the decoder special.
Masked Multi-head Attention: Seeing Only the Past
Imagine you’re writing a story considering only one word at a time.
Each time you choose the next word, you can look back at all the
words you’ve already written, but you can’t peek ahead at words you
haven’t written yet because they don’t exist! This fundamental
constraint of sequence generation is exactly what masked multi-
head attention addresses. The decoder’s first sublayer uses a
special version of self-attention that only allows each position to
attend to previous positions in the output sequence, plus itself. This
masking prevents information leak from future positions that haven’t
been generated yet.
Let’s visualize how this works. When generating the third word in a
sequence, the model can only consider the first and second words
(plus the third word’s position). When generating the fourth word, it
can consider the first through third words, and so on. This creates a
triangular attention pattern where each position attends only to itself
and earlier positions. The mathematics behind this masking is
elegantly simple. We apply a mask to the attention scores before the

--- Strana 736 ---
softmax function, setting scores for invalid connections to negative
infinity:
The mask is a straightforward matrix where entries corresponding to
invalid connections (future positions) contain large negative values,
effectively zeroing out these connections after the softmax. This
ensures that each position can’t see future positions during self-
attention. This masking transforms regular self-attention into causal
self-attention, where the causality refers to the time-like ordering of
the sequence—each position can only be influenced by prior
positions, mirroring how we generate text one token at a time.
Without it, the model would cheat during training by looking ahead at
the correct next tokens rather than learning to predict them based on
previous context. The masking forces the model to make predictions
based only on what it has generated so far, just like a human writer
must do.
Cross-Attention with Encoder Outputs: The Bridge Between
Understanding and Generation
The second key innovation in the decoder is cross-attention—a
mechanism that connects the decoder to the encoder, allowing the
model to draw on the rich contextual understanding of the input
when generating each output token. After the masked self-attention
layer, each decoder block contains a cross-attention layer where
queries come from the decoder’s own processing, and keys and

--- Strana 737 ---
values come from the encoder’s final output. This arrangement
creates a highly useful dynamic. Each position in the decoder is
essentially asking questions about the encoded input sequence,
searching for relevant information to help determine the next output
token.
In machine translation, for instance, when generating the English
translation of a French sentence, each position in the English output
queries the encoded French sentence, looking for the most relevant
parts to inform the current word choice. It’s similar to how a human
translator might focus on different parts of the source text when
producing each word of the translation. The mathematics of cross-
attention follows the same pattern as regular attention:
The crucial difference is that Q comes from the decoder’s previous
layer, while K and V come from the encoder’s output. What makes
cross-attention so powerful is how it creates a direct pathway for
information to flow from input to output. When translating “Je suis
étudiant” to “I am a student,” the cross-attention mechanism might
help the decoder focus heavily on “étudiant” when generating
“student,” creating a direct connection between corresponding terms.
This bidirectional flow of information—the encoder processing the
entire input at once and the decoder attending to relevant parts of
that processed input—gives transformer models their remarkable
ability to handle complex relationships between sequences.

--- Strana 738 ---
The Complete Decoder Block
Putting these pieces together, each decoder block contains the
following:
Masked multi-head self-attention (so each position can see only
previous positions)
Cross-attention with encoder outputs (connecting the decoder to
the encoder’s understanding)
A feed-forward network (for individual token processing)
Layer normalization and residual connections (just like in the
encoder)
These blocks are stacked together (typically 6–12 layers, matching
the encoder), with each layer refining the representations further.
The final layer is followed by a linear projection and softmax to
convert the decoder’s output into probabilities over the vocabulary—
predicting the next token. The decoder’s architecture elegantly
balances two competing needs: maintaining the causal generation
process while also leveraging the encoder’s comprehensive
understanding of the input. This delicate dance between causality
and cross-attention is what enables transformers to generate
coherent, contextually appropriate sequences. In practice, this
architecture has proven remarkably versatile. The same basic
decoder structure works for translation, summarization, question-
answering, and many other sequence-to-sequence tasks—each time

--- Strana 739 ---
learning to map from the encoder’s understanding to an appropriate
output sequence, one token at a time.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 740 ---
9.3    Implementing Transformers in Keras
Now that we’ve explored the theoretical underpinnings of
transformers and dissected their key components, it’s time to roll up
our sleeves and bring these concepts to life through code. The
architectural diagrams and mathematical formulations we’ve
examined are about to transform from abstract concepts into working
neural networks that you can train and experiment with. In the
previous chapter, we discovered how the Keras Functional API gives
us the flexibility to create complex model architectures with multiple
inputs, branches, and shared layers. That foundation will prove
invaluable now as we construct transformers, which feature intricate
patterns of connections and information flow. Transformers aren’t the
kind of models you can easily build with a simple sequential stack of
layers—they require the expressiveness and flexibility that the
Functional API provides.
As we code our transformer components, you’ll see the concepts
we’ve discussed materialize in tangible form. The mysterious query,
key, and value vectors will emerge from matrix operations. The
parallel processing advantage we’ve highlighted will become evident
in how our attention mechanism processes entire sequences
simultaneously. The positional encodings we’ve explained will
appear as actual sine and cosine functions generating vectors.
Throughout this section, we’ll build our transformer piece by piece,
starting with the fundamental building blocks, such as multi-head

--- Strana 741 ---
attention and positional encoding implementations. We’ll then
combine these elements to create complete encoder and decoder
structures. Finally, we’ll assemble the full architecture and discuss
the hyperparameters that influence its behavior.
Remember that while the code might look complex at first glance,
each component maps directly to the concepts we’ve already
covered. The mathematical operations that seemed abstract on
paper will now become clear as we implement them in Keras. Let’s
begin by setting up our environment and then dive into coding the
essential components that make transformers so powerful.
[+]  The Connection Between Math and Engineering
Pay attention to how the code structure mirrors the underlying
mathematics we examined earlier—this parallel will help reinforce
your understanding of both the theory and its practical
implementation.
9.3.1    The Encoder Block
Before diving into the implementation details, let’s take a moment to
establish the hyperparameters that will shape our transformer model.
Looking at Listing 9.9, we see a collection of values that might seem
like arbitrary numbers at first glance, but each one plays a crucial
role in determining how our transformer will learn and behave. These
hyperparameters are like the genetic blueprint for our transformer.

--- Strana 742 ---
The embed_dim determines how rich our word representations will be,
with each word encoded as a 256-dimensional vector in our case.
When we move to ff_dim, we’re setting the size of our feed-forward
networks within the transformer blocks—essentially controlling how
much information processing happens at each step. The magic of
transformers comes partly from num_heads, which determines how
many different attention patterns our model can learn
simultaneously. With eight heads, our model will be able to capture
eight different types of relationships between words in a sentence.
Meanwhile, dropout_rate acts as our regularization safeguard,
randomly turning off 10% of connections during training to prevent
our model from becoming too dependent on specific patterns. You
may refer back to Chapter 6, Section 6.2, for a detailed discussion
about the need and mechanism of regularization through dropout.
(You can access the complete working code for this section from the
supporting page at https://recluze.net/keras-book in the notebook 09-
03-transformer-basics.)
Our architectural depth is controlled by num_encoder_layers and
num_decoder_layers, both set to 4 here. This means information will
flow through four successive transformer blocks in both the encoder
and decoder, allowing for increasingly abstract representations to
form. As for vocabulary, we’ve capped it at 10,000 words with
vocab_size, and we’re setting a boundary of 100 tokens for our input
sequences with max_seq_length. Of course, you can experiment with
these values and study their implications in greater detail later. For
now, think of them as the initial settings on a sophisticated machine

--- Strana 743 ---
—we’ve turned the dials to reasonable starting positions, but we may
need to adjust them as we see how our model performs. These
parameters represent important trade-offs between computational
efficiency, model capacity, and generalization ability that we’ll explore
as we build our transformer piece by piece.
# First, let's define our hyperparameters
embed_dim = 256
ff_dim = 512
num_heads = 8
dropout_rate = 0.1
num_encoder_layers = 4
num_decoder_layers = 4
vocab_size = 10000
max_seq_length = 100  
Listing 9.9     Initial Hyperparameter Settings for Our Transformer Model
Now that we’ve established our hyperparameters let’s turn our
attention to one of the most distinctive features of transformer
architecture: positional encoding. Recall that transformers process
all tokens in parallel, which creates a challenge—without some way
to indicate position, our model would treat “The dog chased the cat”
and “The cat chased the dog” as identical. Positional encoding
elegantly solves this problem.
Looking at Listing 9.10, we’ve created a two-part solution. First, the
get_positional_encoding function generates a matrix of values
where each position in our sequence gets its own unique fingerprint
across the embedding dimensions. The resulting pattern ensures

--- Strana 744 ---
that each position is distinct from all others, yet similar positions
have similar encodings; for example, position 5 is nearer to position
6 than to position 100. The code might appear complex at first
glance, but try to match it with the equations we derived earlier in
Section 9.2.2. We’re using sine functions for even indices and cosine
functions for odd indices in our embedding vector. The div_term
calculation creates a spectrum of wavelengths that gives our position
encoding its distinctive properties. Each dimension of our embedding
operates at a different frequency, creating a rich, unique pattern for
each position.
When we wrap this function in a Keras layer with our
PositionalEncoding class, we make it compatible with our model
architecture. Otherwise, you’ll get type incompatibility errors. Note
how we generate the encoding matrix just once during initialization
rather than recreating it for every batch—a simple optimization that
saves computation. The calculation is initiated by the call method,
where we add (not concatenate) the positional encoding directly to
our word embeddings. This addition means each word embedding
now carries both semantic information about the word itself and
information about where it appears in the sequence. The flexibility to
handle variable sequence lengths is built in, as we extract the actual
sequence length from the input and only apply the relevant portion of
our precomputed encoding matrix. With this positional encoding in
place, our transformer gains awareness of word order without
sacrificing the parallel processing that makes it so efficient. Each
token now carries a unique positional signature that the attention

--- Strana 745 ---
mechanism can use to understand sequential relationships, solving
one of the core challenges in transformer design.
# Function to get positional encoding
def get_positional_encoding(seq_length, d_model):
    position = np.arange(seq_length)[:, np.newaxis]
    div_term = np.exp(np.arange(0, d_model, 2) *
                     -(np.log(10000.0) / d_model))
    pos_encoding = np.zeros((seq_length, d_model))
    pos_encoding[:, 0::2] = np.sin(position * div_term)
    pos_encoding[:, 1::2] = np.cos(position * div_term)
    pos_encoding = pos_encoding[np.newaxis, ...]
    return tf.cast(pos_encoding, dtype=tf.float32)
# Positional encoding layer to properly handle Keras inputs
class PositionalEncoding(keras.layers.Layer):
    def __init__(self, max_seq_length, embed_dim, **kwargs):
        super().__init__(**kwargs)
        self.max_seq_length = max_seq_length
        self.embed_dim = embed_dim
        # Generate the positional encoding matrix once
        self.pos_encoding = get_positional_encoding(
                                       max_seq_length, 
embed_dim)
    def call(self, inputs):
        # Get the sequence length from the input tensor
        seq_len = tf.shape(inputs)[1]
        # Apply the positional encoding up to the sequence 

--- Strana 746 ---
length
        return inputs + self.pos_encoding[:, :seq_len, :]  
Listing 9.10     Implementation of Positional Encoding for Transformer Models
With our positional encoding in place to preserve sequence
information, we can now move on to the heart of the transformer
architecture—the encoder block. This is where the real magic of
transformers happens, as each token attends to every other token in
the sequence, capturing complex relationships and dependencies
regardless of how far apart words might be. Looking at Listing 9.11,
we can see how the transformer encoder block implements the
architecture we discussed in the previous sections. The function
takes our embedded and position-encoded inputs and processes
them through two main sublayers: multi-head self-attention and a
feed-forward network.
The first part of the block uses Keras’s built-in MultiHeadAttention
layer. Here, we pass the same input tensor three times (though we
only see it twice in the code because Keras simplifies the syntax).
This is self-attention—each position attends to all positions in the
same sequence. The key_dim parameter divides the embedding
dimension by the number of heads, ensuring each attention head
operates in a lower-dimensional space, which helps each head learn
different patterns while keeping the computation manageable.

--- Strana 747 ---
[+]  Reading Keras Source
Once you get familiar with the contents of this book, it would be a
good next step to study the source code of different layers as
coded by Keras itself. For instance, you can see the official
documentation and source of the MultiHeadAttention layer in the
official Keras docs here: http://s-prs.co/v614202. This will give you
a much deeper appreciation of the code and architectures you
work with.
After attention, we apply dropout for regularization, and then add the
original inputs back to the attention outputs. This residual connection
helps with gradient flow during training and allows the network to
preserve information from earlier layers. LayerNormalization
stabilizes training by normalizing activations, with a small epsilon
value to prevent division by zero. The second sublayer contains a
feed-forward network with two dense layers. The first expands the
dimensionality to ff_dim, which we set to 512 in our
hyperparameters, and applies a ReLU activation, introducing
nonlinearity. The second layer projects back down to the original
embedding dimension. Another dropout layer helps prevent
overfitting.
Finally, we apply a second round of Add & Norm—adding a residual
connection and normalizing again. This consistent pattern of
sublayer to add to normalize appears throughout transformer
architectures and plays a crucial role in their impressive

--- Strana 748 ---
performance. What makes this block so powerful is how it can be
stacked multiple times. As we defined in our hyperparameters, we’ll
use four such encoder blocks, allowing the network to build
increasingly sophisticated representations with each layer. The first
block might capture basic word relationships, while deeper blocks
can model complex linguistic patterns such as coreference, logical
structure, and semantic dependencies.
# Define encoder block
def encoder_block(inputs, embed_dim, num_heads, ff_dim,
                  dropout_rate=0.1):
    # Multi-head self-attention
    attention_output = keras.layers.MultiHeadAttention(
        num_heads=num_heads, key_dim=embed_dim//num_heads,
        dropout=dropout_rate)(inputs, inputs)
    # Add & Norm
    attention_output = keras.layers.Dropout(dropout_rate)
                                           (attention_output)
    attention_output = keras.layers.Add()
                                 ([inputs, attention_output])
    attention_output = keras.layers.LayerNormalization(
                                              epsilon=1e-6)
                                            (attention_output)
    # Feed-forward network
    ffn = keras.Sequential([
        keras.layers.Dense(ff_dim, activation="relu"),
        keras.layers.Dense(embed_dim),
        keras.layers.Dropout(dropout_rate)
    ])

--- Strana 749 ---
    # Add & Norm
    ffn_output = ffn(attention_output)
    encoder_output = keras.layers.Add()([attention_output,
                                         ffn_output])
    encoder_output = keras.layers.LayerNormalization(
        epsilon=1e-6)(encoder_output)
    return encoder_output  
Listing 9.11     Implementation of a Transformer Encoder Block
With an in-depth understanding of the individual encoder block, we
need to assemble these blocks into a complete encoder architecture.
This is where our transformer really takes shape, connecting all the
pieces we’ve built so far into a coherent structure that can process
sequences from start to finish. Looking at Listing 9.12, we can see
how the full encoder comes together as a complete pipeline. The
function takes all of our previously defined hyperparameters and
uses them to construct a Keras model that transforms token indices
into rich contextual representations. The process begins with an
input layer that expects a tensor with the shape we specify. For text
data, this is typically a 1D sequence of integer token IDs. These
tokens pass through an embedding layer that converts each integer
ID into a dense vector of size embed_dim (256 in our case). This
transformation is crucial because it maps discrete symbols into a
continuous space where semantic relationships can be represented.
Next, our custom PositionalEncoding layer adds location information
to these embeddings, solving the sequence-awareness problem we
discussed earlier. An initial dropout layer follows, providing

--- Strana 750 ---
regularization right from the start to help prevent overfitting. The core
of our encoder is a stack of encoder blocks added through a simple
for loop. Each block processes the output of the previous one,
creating increasingly sophisticated representations of our input
sequence. Finally, we wrap everything up in a Keras Model, defining
the inputs and outputs to create a standalone encoder component.
The name parameter helps identify this part of the architecture in
visualizations and logs, which becomes particularly helpful when
debugging complex models.
What makes this implementation powerful is its modularity. By
adjusting parameters such as num_layers, we can create encoders of
varying depths. A deeper encoder with more layers can capture more
complex patterns but requires more computation and data to train
effectively. This flexibility allows us to tailor the architecture to the
specific requirements of our task. With our encoder fully
implemented, we’ve built the foundation for processing input
sequences. Next, we’ll need to construct the decoder component
that will generate output sequences based on the encoder’s
representations, completing our transformer architecture.
# Build encoder
def build_encoder(input_shape, vocab_size, num_layers,
                  embed_dim, num_heads, ff_dim,
                  max_seq_length, dropout_rate=0.1):
    # Input layer
    inputs = keras.layers.Input(shape=input_shape)
    # Embedding layer

--- Strana 751 ---
    embedding_layer = keras.layers.Embedding(
        input_dim=vocab_size, output_dim=embed_dim)
    x = embedding_layer(inputs)
    # Add positional encoding (using our layer)
    x = PositionalEncoding(max_seq_length, embed_dim)(x)
    # Add initial dropout
    x = keras.layers.Dropout(dropout_rate)(x)
    # Stack encoder blocks
    for i in range(num_layers):
        x = encoder_block(x, embed_dim, num_heads, ff_dim,
                          dropout_rate)
    # Create model
    encoder = keras.Model(inputs=inputs, outputs=x,
                          name="encoder")
    return encoder  
Listing 9.12     Building a Complete Transformer Encoder
In Listing 9.13 , we’re calling our build_encoder function with all the
hyperparameters we defined earlier. The input_shape=(None,)
parameter indicates that we’ll process sequences of variable length.
The model summary reveals that our encoder contains nearly 4.7
million trainable parameters, which is quite substantial, but still
modest compared to large-scale language models that often have
billions of parameters.
print("ENCODER MODEL SUMMARY")
encoder = build_encoder(

--- Strana 752 ---
    input_shape=(None,),
    vocab_size=vocab_size,
    num_layers=num_encoder_layers,
    embed_dim=embed_dim,
    num_heads=num_heads,
    ff_dim=ff_dim,
    max_seq_length=max_seq_length,
    dropout_rate=dropout_rate
)
encoder.summary()
# Model summary output omitted for brevity 
# Total params: 4,668,416 (17.81 MB)
# Trainable params: 4,668,416 (17.81 MB) 
# Nontrainable params: 0 (0.00 B)  
Listing 9.13     Instantiating the Encoder Model with Our Hyperparameters
9.3.2    The Decoder Block
With our encoder fully constructed and ready to process input
sequences, let’s turn our attention to the decoder—the component
responsible for generating output sequences. While the decoder
shares many architectural similarities with the encoder, it contains
crucial differences that enable it to generate coherent text based on
the encoder’s representations. Looking at Listing 9.14, we can see
that the decoder block contains three sublayers instead of the two
we saw in the encoder. The first two key differences from the
encoder are as follows:
Masked self-attention
Unlike the encoder, the decoder uses a causal mask

--- Strana 753 ---
(use_causal_mask=True). This mask prevents the decoder from
looking at future tokens during training, forcing it to generate text
one token at a time. This is crucial for autoregressive generation—
when predicting token 3, the model can only see tokens 1 and 2,
not tokens 4 and beyond.
Cross-attention
This entirely new layer allows the decoder to focus on relevant
parts of the encoder’s output. The query comes from the
decoder’s self-attention layer, while the value (and implicitly the
key) comes from the encoder output. This creates a bridge
between what the encoder has processed and what the decoder is
generating, allowing the decoder to incorporate information from
the input sequence.
The decoder maintains the same Add & Norm pattern after each
sublayer, preserving the gradient flow and stabilizing training. The
feed-forward network remains identical to the encoder’s, applying
nonlinear transformations to further process the information.
This architecture elegantly solves the challenge of sequence
generation. The masked self-attention handles the autoregressive
nature of text generation, while the cross-attention layer incorporates
context from the input sequence. Together, these mechanisms
enable the transformer to generate coherent output text that properly
relates to the input context, whether for translation, summarization,
or other sequence-to-sequence tasks.

--- Strana 754 ---
# Define decoder block
def decoder_block(inputs, enc_outputs, embed_dim,
                  num_heads, ff_dim,
                  dropout_rate=0.1):
    # Masked multi-head self-attention
    self_attention = keras.layers.MultiHeadAttention(
        num_heads=num_heads, key_dim=embed_dim//num_heads,
        dropout=dropout_rate)(
        query=inputs, value=inputs, use_causal_mask=True)
    # Add & Norm
    self_attention = keras.layers.Dropout(dropout_rate)
                                         (self_attention)
    self_attention = keras.layers.Add()
                                     ([inputs, self_attention])
    self_attention = keras.layers.LayerNormalization(
                            epsilon=1e-6)(self_attention)
    # Cross-attention with encoder outputs
    cross_attention = keras.layers.MultiHeadAttention(
        num_heads=num_heads, key_dim=embed_dim//num_heads,
        dropout=dropout_rate)(
        query=self_attention, value=enc_outputs)
    # Add & Norm
    cross_attention = keras.layers.Dropout(dropout_rate)
                                          (cross_attention)
    cross_attention = keras.layers.Add()
                          ([self_attention, cross_attention])
    cross_attention = keras.layers.LayerNormalization(
        epsilon=1e-6)(cross_attention)
    # Feed-forward network

--- Strana 755 ---
    ffn = keras.Sequential([
        keras.layers.Dense(ff_dim, activation="relu"),
        keras.layers.Dense(embed_dim),
        keras.layers.Dropout(dropout_rate)
    ])
    # Add & Norm
    ffn_output = ffn(cross_attention)
    decoder_output = keras.layers.Add()
                            ([cross_attention, ffn_output])
    decoder_output = keras.layers.LayerNormalization(
        epsilon=1e-6)(decoder_output)
    return decoder_output  
Listing 9.14     Implementation of a Transformer Decoder Block
Just as with our encoder, we would create a build_decoder function
that takes our hyperparameters and constructs a full decoder model.
This function would handle the input processing, apply embeddings
and positional encoding, and then stack multiple decoder blocks
according to our num_decoder_layers parameter. The key difference
would be the inclusion of encoder outputs as an additional input to
each decoder block, enabling the cross-attention mechanism we just
explored. When fully implemented, the decoder would transform
output token embeddings into predictions for the next token in the
sequence, using both its own previous outputs (via masked self-
attention) and the context from the encoder (via cross-attention).

--- Strana 756 ---
This combination allows the model to generate text that is both
coherent in its own right and relevant to the input context.
The complete decoder implementation follows the same architectural
principles as our encoder, maintaining the same dimensions and
processing patterns while incorporating the unique decoder-specific
features we’ve discussed. By keeping this consistency throughout
the model, we ensure that information flows smoothly between the
encoder and decoder during both training and inference. Because
the build_decoder function is quite similar to build_encoder function,
we’re omitting it here for brevity. The reference code provided with
the book contains the full code that you might want to refer to for a
deeper understanding.
With both our encoder and decoder components constructed, we’ve
laid the groundwork for a complete transformer architecture that can
tackle a wide range of sequence-to-sequence tasks, from machine
translation to text summarization and beyond.
9.3.3    The Transformer: Putting the Encoder and
Decoder Together
The function to bring everything together is shown in Listing 9.15.
The transformer takes two distinct input sequences—one for the
encoder and one for the decoder. The encoder processes its input
and produces representations that are passed to the decoder. The
decoder then uses these representations along with its own input
sequence to generate predictions. The final dense layer with softmax

--- Strana 757 ---
activation transforms the decoder’s output into our vocabulary. For
each position in the output sequence, this layer produces scores for
all possible tokens, with the highest score indicating the most likely
next word. What makes this architecture powerful is how it connects
the encoder and decoder through the cross-attention mechanism.
Information flows from the encoder’s processing of the input text to
inform the decoder’s generation of output text, allowing for
contextually relevant responses that maintain coherence across the
entire sequence. This can be seen clearly in the following code line:
dec_outputs = decoder([decoder_inputs, enc_outputs])  
Finally, by wrapping everything in a Keras Model, we create a unified
network that can be trained end to end, with all parameters
optimized simultaneously to minimize our chosen loss function. This
integration of components is what gives transformers their
remarkable ability to handle complex language tasks.
def build_transformer(vocab_size,
                     max_seq_length,
                     embed_dim=256,
                     num_heads=8,
                     ff_dim=512,
                     num_encoder_layers=6,
                     num_decoder_layers=6,
                     dropout_rate=0.1):
    # Input layers
    encoder_inputs = keras.layers.Input(
        shape=(None,), name="encoder_inputs")
    decoder_inputs = keras.layers.Input(
        shape=(None,), name="decoder_inputs")

--- Strana 758 ---
    # Build encoder
    encoder = build_encoder(
        input_shape=(None,),
        # set hyperparameters as before
    )
    # Get encoder outputs
    enc_outputs = encoder(encoder_inputs)
    # Build decoder
    decoder = build_decoder(
        input_shape=(None,),
        # set hyperparameters as before
    )
    # Get decoder outputs
    dec_outputs = decoder([decoder_inputs, enc_outputs])
    # Final projection to vocabulary distribution
    outputs = keras.layers.Dense(vocab_size, 
                                 activation="softmax")
                                (dec_outputs)
    # Create model
    transformer = keras.Model(
        inputs=[encoder_inputs, decoder_inputs],
        outputs=outputs,
        name="transformer"
    )
    return transformer  
Listing 9.15     Assembling the Complete Transformer Model

--- Strana 759 ---
With that, we conclude our transformer model creation. We’ve built a
transformer model from scratch looking at both the underlying
mathematics and internals of this extremely powerful model as well
as the engineering issues related to the implementation. As we wrap
up our discussion of transformer implementation, it’s worth noting
some practical considerations for training these powerful models.
Transformers typically require large datasets and substantial
computational resources, with techniques such as gradient
accumulation and mixed precision training often necessary to
manage memory constraints. The model we’ve built here is
intentionally bare bones—it illustrates the fundamental architecture
without the bells and whistles that make modern transformers
feasible and more economical—relatively speaking. State-of-the-art
models build upon this foundation with enhancements such as
prenormalization (placing layer norm before attention), relative
positional encoding (captures relationship distances better than
absolute positions), and parameter-efficient techniques such as low-
rank adaptations. They also employ sophisticated training strategies
such as learning rate warmup and decay schedules to stabilize the
training process.
While building a transformer from scratch helps us understand its
inner workings, in real-world applications, we shouldn’t reinvent the
wheel. Keras provides high-level APIs and pretrained models that
allow us to leverage transformers effectively without coding every
component. In the next section, we’ll explore how to use these tools
to quickly implement and fine-tune sophisticated transformer models

--- Strana 760 ---
for practical applications, making this powerful architecture
accessible for everyday use.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 761 ---
9.4    Case Study: Large Language Model
Chatbot
In the previous section, we built a transformer from the ground up,
examining each component and how they fit together. While this
approach gives us deep insight into the architecture, there’s a
practical reality we need to address: Training transformers from
scratch requires enormous computational resources that are simply
out of reach for most individuals and even many organizations. The
days of training LLMs on a single GPU are long behind us.
Fortunately, we can apply the same transfer learning principles we
explored in earlier chapters. Rather than starting from random
weights and spending months (and thousands of dollars) on training,
we can use pretrained models that have already absorbed patterns
from vast amounts of text data. These production-level models,
however, are more complex than the simplified versions we’ve built
so far. They contain numerous optimizations, architectural variations,
and specialized components that can be intimidating at first glance.
This is where Keras truly shines by providing a modular interface to
these sophisticated models, allowing us to use them productively
without having to understand every implementation detail. By
focusing on the relationships between key components—how
encoders connect to decoders, how attention flows through the

--- Strana 762 ---
system, how inputs are processed and outputs are generated—we
can harness these powerful models with surprisingly little code.
In this section, we’ll explore the structure of modern transformer-
based language models in Keras Hub. We’ll examine how the
various components are organized and interact with each other,
creating a mental map that will serve you well when working with any
transformer architecture. Then, we’ll put this knowledge into practice
by building an AI chatbot using a pretrained causal language model.
You’ll see firsthand how Keras enables us to implement state-of-the-
art NLP with just a few lines of code, opening up possibilities that
would have seemed like science fiction just a few years ago.
9.4.1    Structure of Modern Keras Transformer Models
Let’s first examine how Keras structures production-level transformer
models and how we can use them for building an example AI chatbot
application. Rather than seeing these models as impenetrable black
boxes, we’ll learn to view them as modular systems with distinct
components that we can connect, configure, and, in some cases,
customize. Modern transformer implementations in Keras follow a
modular architecture that separates concerns and makes these
complex models more manageable. When we work with a framework
such as Keras, we’re interacting with several distinct components,
each with its own responsibility in the pipeline. Take a moment to

--- Strana 763 ---
look at Figure 9.6 that shows the components used in a LLM in
Keras.
Figure 9.6     Components Used for Building a LLM in Keras
This modular design enables us to swap components, fine-tune
specific parts, and adapt pretrained models to our specific needs.
Let’s see each component in detail and how they relate to each
other. At the beginning of our pipeline, we need to convert raw text
into a format our model can understand. This is the job of tokenizers.
A tokenizer breaks text into smaller units called tokens, which might
be words, subwords, or even individual characters, depending on the
tokenization strategy. Tokenization alone isn’t enough. We also need
to convert these tokens into numerical IDs, add special tokens such
as [START] and [END], handle padding for variable-length sequences,
and create attention masks to tell the model which tokens to ignore.
This is the job of the preprocessor layer. The relationship between
tokenizers and preprocessors is hierarchical: the preprocessor
typically contains a tokenizer and extends its functionality with
additional processing steps. When working with Keras models, the

--- Strana 764 ---
preprocessor component provides the interface between raw text
inputs and the numerical tensors the model expects.
The backbone is the heart of our model—it’s the actual transformer
architecture that processes our tokenized inputs. In Keras,
backbones encapsulate the embedding layers, transformer blocks,
and output layer normalization. What makes this approach powerful
is that we can use pretrained backbones without needing to
understand every implementation detail. These backbones contain
the knowledge learned during pretraining on massive datasets,
which we can use for our specific tasks. Different models have
different backbone architectures—a BERT backbone differs from a
GPT backbone, which differs from a T5 backbone. But Keras
provides a consistent interface for working with all of them.
The backbone relates to other components in two key ways:
Receives processed tensor inputs from the preprocessor
Produces contextual embeddings that are passed to the task-
specific head
The backbone outputs contextualized representations for each token
in our sequence, but these representations need to be transformed
into the specific output format we need for our task. This is where
task-specific heads are used. For our AI chatbot, we’ll use a causal
language modeling (CausalLM) head, which predicts the next token
in a sequence based on all previous tokens. This allows our model to
generate text one token at a time, building coherent responses to
user inputs. Other common task heads include the following:

--- Strana 765 ---
Classification heads for sentiment analysis, topic classification, or
intent detection
Masked language modeling heads for BERT-style pretraining
Sequence-to-sequence heads for translation or summarization
The task head’s relationship with the backbone is transformative: it
takes the general-purpose embeddings from the backbone and
transforms them into task-specific outputs. The nature of this
transformation depends entirely on what the task requires. Keras
provides high-level task classes that combine a backbone with the
appropriate head for different applications. For instance, CausalLM
combines a backbone with a CausalLM head, providing methods for
text generation.
There are also certain supporting utilities provided by Keras. For
instance, when generating text with our model, we need to decide
how to sample from the predicted probability distribution for the next
token. The sampling component provides different strategies for this
selection process. Sampling strategies include the following:
Greedy sampling
Always chooses the token with the highest probability.
Top-k sampling
Randomly selects from the k most likely tokens.
Top-p (nucleus) sampling
Selects from the smallest set of tokens whose cumulative
probability exceeds p.

--- Strana 766 ---
Temperature scaling
Controls the randomness of the sampling process.
The sampler component relates to the task head in a sequential
manner: The task head produces probability distributions over the
vocabulary, and the sampler selects specific tokens from these
distributions to form the generated text.
To state it concisely, for our AI chatbot based on a CausalLM, these
components work together in a specific flow:
1. The tokenizer and preprocessor convert the user’s input text and
conversation history into token IDs and attention masks.
2. The backbone processes these tensors through its transformer
architecture, producing contextualized embeddings that
represent the semantic meaning of the input.
3. The CausalLM head takes these embeddings and predicts the
probability distribution for the next token.
4. The sampler selects a token from this distribution based on its
sampling strategy.
5. The selected token is appended to the output sequence, and the
process repeats, with the backbone now processing the
extended sequence.
6. This generation loop continues until a stopping condition is met
(e.g., maximum length reached or a special stop token
generated).

--- Strana 767 ---
What makes this architecture powerful is its modularity. We can
swap out components to change the model’s behavior without
rebuilding everything from scratch. Here are some examples:
We can replace the backbone with one trained on different data
while keeping the same preprocessing and sampling logic.
We can switch sampling strategies to make our chatbot’s
responses more creative or more predictable.
We can even change the task head entirely to repurpose the
model for classification or other tasks.
Moreover, in production-level AI chatbots, additional components
often extend this basic architecture:
Dialog managers
Track conversation state and context across multiple turns.
Safety filters
Evaluate generated responses to prevent harmful or inappropriate
outputs.
Knowledge retrieval systems
Augment the model with external information sources.
Fine-tuning modules
Adapt pretrained components to specific domains or tasks.
These extensions build on the foundation of the core components,
leveraging the modularity of Keras’s transformer implementation.
The key insight is that we don’t need to understand every detail of

--- Strana 768 ---
the transformer architecture to use these models effectively. By
focusing on the relationships between components and the high-
level APIs Keras provides, we can harness the power of state-of-the-
art models with minimal code.
9.4.2    Working with Pretrained Models from Kaggle Hub
Now that we understand the components of a transformer model in
Keras, we’ll put this knowledge into practice in this section. Keras
makes pretrained transformer models available through Kaggle Hub,
which hosts a variety of models ranging from text generation to
image classification. This approach saves us from having to train
models from scratch, which would require massive computational
resources.
Setting Up Kaggle Hub Access
The first step is to establish a connection with Kaggle Hub from our
working environment. Kaggle Hub serves as a repository for the
model files, weights, and configurations that we’ll need. We can
connect programmatically to Kaggle Hub using the two simple lines
of code shown in Listing 9.16. (You can find the complete code
listing for this section on the book resources page
https://recluze.net/keras-book in the notebook 09-04-transformer-
case-study.)

--- Strana 769 ---
import kagglehub
kagglehub.login()  
Listing 9.16     Accessing Kaggle Hub
When you run this code, you’ll see a login screen similar to the one
shown in Figure 9.7. If you don’t already have a Kaggle account,
you’ll need to create one first at https://kaggle.com. The account
creation process is free and straightforward.
Figure 9.7     Kaggle Hub Login Screen
The login process requires two pieces of information:
Your Kaggle username
An API token from your Kaggle account
Once you’ve created your account (or logged in to an existing one),
navigate to the Kaggle settings page (click on your user icon on the
top right, and then click on Settings) to generate your API token. On
the settings screen look for the API section (see Figure 9.8), and
click on Create New Token. This will download a JavaScript Object

--- Strana 770 ---
Notation (JSON) file containing your credentials. Open that file to
find your token.
Figure 9.8     Creating an API Token for Kaggle
[ ! ]  Using the API Token
A typical token will look like this:
{"username":"yourname","key":"72627263733464359276a15002cdaef
b"} 
The values shown here are just for demonstration purposes and
won’t work. Use the API key you received in the JSON file.
Enter your username and token into the prompted fields in the
notebook (refer to Figure 9.7), and click Login to authenticate. You’ll
see a Thank You message when the authentication is successful.
This one-time setup enables your environment to download and use
models from Kaggle Hub. The authentication persists across
sessions within the same environment, so you typically won’t need to
repeat this process unless you’re working in a new environment. You
can reuse the same API key in as many notebooks as you like.

--- Strana 771 ---
Loading Pretrained Transformer Models
Once you’ve set up your Kaggle Hub access, the next step is to load
a pretrained model. Keras Hub provides a variety of models that you
can explore at the Keras Hub API documentation. For our case
study, we’ll use the Gemma model, a powerful transformer-based
language model developed by Google (see Listing 9.17).
try:
    causal_lm = keras_nlp.models.GPT2CausalLM.from_preset(
        "gpt2_base_en",
    )
except Exception as e:
    print(f"Error loading model preset.")
    print(f"Error details: {e}")  
Listing 9.17     Loading the Gemma CausalLM Model
When running this code for the first time, you’ll likely encounter an
error message from the Kaggle API indicating that you need to grant
access to the specific model. This is because some models,
particularly those with more advanced capabilities, require explicit
permission to use.
To grant access to the Gemma model, follow these steps:
1. Visit the GemmaCausalLM model page on Keras Hub at
http://s-prs.co/v614203.
2. Scroll down to the Presets section.
3. Click on the gemma_2b_en preset link.

--- Strana 772 ---
4. This will take you to the Kaggle page for the model.
5. On the Gemma page, click the Request Access button (see
Figure 9.9.)
6. Accept the terms of use.
Figure 9.9     Requesting Access on Kaggle Hub
Using the Loaded Model
This process grants your Kaggle account permission to download
and use the model. The permission is tied to your Kaggle account,
so you’ll only need to do this once per model. Once the permissions
are out of the way, we’re able to generate text using this newly
loaded model. The code shown in Listing 9.18 demonstrates two
fundamental operations with the Gemma model that we’ve loaded.
causal_lm.summary() # 124m parameters 
generated_text = causal_lm.generate(
    "The most accepted definition of machine learning is ",
    max_length=60)

--- Strana 773 ---
print(generated_text)  
Listing 9.18     Generating Next Tokens Using the Loaded Model
The first line, causal_lm.summary(), displays a summary of the
model’s architecture, showing its layers, shapes, and total parameter
count. The output will show you that this model has approximately
124 million parameters. This summary function is helpful for
understanding the model’s complexity and structure, similar to how
we might examine the architecture of any Keras model. The
parameter count is significant because it indicates the model’s size
and capacity. At 124 million parameters, this is a relatively compact
model compared to larger variants that can have billions of
parameters.
The second part demonstrates the model’s primary function—
generating text. The generate() method takes a prompt string as
input: “The most accepted definition of machine learning is”, and the
max_length parameter limits the total output to 60 tokens (including
the input prompt). This simple example showcases how the model
can continue text in a coherent way, completing the definition of
machine learning based on patterns it learned during pretraining.
The model uses all the components we discussed earlier—
tokenizing the input, processing it through the transformer backbone,
and generating new tokens through the CausalLM head. The brevity
of this code highlights one of the key advantages of using pretrained
models through Keras—complex AI capabilities can be accessed

--- Strana 774 ---
with just a few lines of code, abstracting away the underlying
complexity of the transformer architecture.
Converting a Language Model into a Simple Chatbot
We can take the basic next-token prediction capability of our
transformer model and very easily convert it into a functional chatbot.
This transformation requires minimal code changes but creates a
much more engaging and interactive experience for users. The code
for this is shown in Listing 9.19. This function demonstrates several
key principles for transforming a general-purpose language model
into a conversational agent: The code starts by defining a specific
context and role for the model through careful prompt engineering.
The multiline string creates a “frame” that does the following:
Establishes the interaction as a conversation between a user and
an AI assistant
Defines the expected behavior of the assistant (“helpful, detailed,
and polite”)
Creates clear role markers (“USER:” and “ASSISTANT:”)
This structural framing helps the model understand what type of
response is expected. By providing these explicit instructions in the
prompt, we’re using the model’s ability to recognize and continue
conversational patterns it encountered during pretraining.
The function takes a user_input parameter and seamlessly
integrates it into the prompt template. This allows for dynamic

--- Strana 775 ---
interaction where the model responds to what the user has actually
asked rather than generating random text. This is a crucial difference
between a standard text generator and an interactive chatbot—the
ability to respond contextually to specific user inputs. The
output_max_length parameter limits the model’s response to 60
tokens. This prevents overly verbose responses while still allowing
enough space for meaningful answers.
def converse(user_input):
    prompt_text = """The following is a conversation between a
                     user and an AI assistant.
                     The assistant gives helpful, detailed, and
                     polite answers to the user's questions.
                     USER: """
    prompt_text += user_input # The user prompt goes here
    prompt_text += "ASSISTANT:"
    output_max_length = 60
    
    generated_text = causal_lm.generate(prompt_text,
                                   
max_length=output_max_length)  
Listing 9.19     Using the CausalLM as a Chatbot
This code provides a minimal viable chatbot but could be improved
in several ways:
Response extraction
Currently, the output would include the entire prompt. We’d need
to extract just the assistant’s response.

--- Strana 776 ---
Conversation history
For a more coherent experience, we could maintain conversation
history across turns.
Error handling
The try-except block should include proper error handling code.
Input validation
Adding checks for inappropriate content or empty inputs would
improve robustness.
This concludes our exploration of how the theoretical components of
transformer models translate into practical applications through
Keras Hub’s modular architecture. Beyond Gemma, you can explore
numerous other models from the Keras Hub page
(https://keras.io/keras_hub/api/models/), each offering different
capabilities and trade-offs. The beauty of Keras’s consistent API is
that incorporating any of these alternative models requires minimal
code changes—simply swap the model preset name, and the rest of
your application logic remains intact. While transforming these
models into production-ready applications requires additional
engineering work for scalability, security, and monitoring, the
fundamental AI capabilities are accessible with remarkable simplicity.
This democratization of advanced AI technology opens up
possibilities that would have been unimaginable just a few years
ago.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 777 ---
9.5    Summary
This chapter explored the transformative impact of transformer
architectures in NLP. We began with the theoretical foundations of
transformers, examining their self-attention mechanisms that allow
models to process sequences in parallel rather than sequentially. We
then dissected the core components—attention mechanisms,
encoders, and decoders—that enable transformers to capture
contextual relationships regardless of distance within sequences.
Moving from theory to practice, we implemented these components
in Keras, building a transformer from the ground up and gaining
insights into how each element contributes to the model’s
capabilities. The chapter concluded with a practical case study
demonstrating how to use pretrained transformer models from Keras
Hub, showing how the modular architecture of tokenizers,
preprocessors, backbones, and task-specific heads makes it
remarkably straightforward to create applications such as AI chatbots
with minimal code. Throughout the journey from foundational
concepts to practical implementation, we’ve seen how transformers
have revolutionized NLP and opened possibilities for AI applications
that would have been unimaginable just a few years ago. While
transformers are extremely powerful models, they are still static in
nature and thus limited by the data fed to them.
In the next chapter, we’ll look at dynamic models that learn by
interacting with their environment and learning from the outcomes of

--- Strana 778 ---
their actions.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 779 ---
10    Reinforcement Learning: The
Secret Sauce
In this chapter, we’ll explore how machines learn optimal
decision-making through trial and error. We’ll examine the
core concepts of agents, environments, and reward signals,
and introduce key algorithms, including Q-learning, and
Deep Q-Networks (DQNs). Using Keras and Gymnasium,
we’ll implement these techniques while balancing exploration
and exploitation. The chapter will highlight crucial
innovations such as experience replay and target networks
that have transformed reinforcement learning into a practical
tool for complex problems. We’ll also connect these
concepts to the large language models (LLMs) discussed in
the previous chapter, demonstrating how reinforcement
learning techniques serves as a backbone for these powerful
systems.
In the previous chapter, we explored transformers—powerful models
that have revolutionized natural language processing (NLP) and
many other fields. Yet, as groundbreaking as transformers are, their
true potential wasn’t fully realized until we paired them with another

--- Strana 780 ---
approach: reinforcement learning. The chatbots and AI assistants
you interact with daily owe their remarkable abilities not just to
transformer architectures but to the way they’re trained and refined
through reinforcement learning techniques. While transformers
provide the raw processing power, reinforcement learning supplies
something equally crucial—the ability to learn from interactions and
feedback. Modern AI systems such as ChatGPT and Claude are
trained using techniques where human preferences guide the
learning process. This marriage of approaches has produced AI
systems that are not only knowledgeable but also increasingly
aligned with human values and expectations.
Reinforcement learning stands apart from the approaches we’ve
covered so far. Imagine you’re teaching a dog a new trick—you don’t
explicitly show it exactly how to perform the action. Instead, you
reward behaviors that get closer to your goal. The dog learns
through experimentation, gradually figuring out what actions lead to
treats and praise. This natural learning process, that is, trying things
out and learning from the results, forms the heart of reinforcement
learning. This approach differs fundamentally from supervised
learning, where we showed models labeled examples of the right
answers. It’s also distinct from the unsupervised methods we
explored, which find patterns without specific guidance.
Reinforcement learning introduces a new element—learning from
consequences rather than examples.
Throughout this chapter, we’ll unveil this powerful paradigm that’s
reshaping how AI systems learn. We’ll start with the fundamental

--- Strana 781 ---
concepts before moving into specific algorithms and implementation
details. The text will take us from theory to practice, showing how
these ideas come to life in real systems using Keras. The connection
between transformers and reinforcement learning signals a shift in
how we approach AI development. Historically, supervised learning
and reinforcement learning developed as separate branches with
different applications and techniques. Today, we’re witnessing their
powerful convergence, particularly in large language models (LLMs).
This merger combines the pattern recognition strengths of
supervised learning with reinforcement learning’s ability to improve
through interaction. We’re moving beyond systems that merely
process information to those that can engage with their environment,
make decisions, and improve through experience—creating AI
capabilities that neither approach could achieve on its own. Let’s
begin our exploration of this fascinating approach that bridges the
gap between computational intelligence and the way humans
naturally learn through interaction with the world.
10.1    Introduction to Reinforcement
Learning
In this section, we’ll first introduce the concept of learning by taking
actions. We’ll briefly discuss the history of this paradigm of learning
to show that this isn’t a new model but one that faced certain
challenges that took a long while to solve. We’ll also discuss real-

--- Strana 782 ---
world applications of this type of learning to see how it can help
solve a myriad of problems.
10.1.1    The Problem of Learning by Doing
Imagine you’re learning to cook a new dish, but you don’t have a
specific recipe in front of you. You start with basic ingredients and
some cooking intuition. Your first attempt might be edible but far from
delicious. Each time you try again, you make small adjustments
based on the previous results—a little more salt here, a lower heat
there—until, eventually, you create something truly tasty. Crucially,
no one tells you exactly what went wrong or right. Perhaps a
particular combination of spices clashed even though each would
work fine individually. Your only feedback is whether this particular
attempt tasted better or worse than the last. This process of learning
through trial, error, and adjustment, guided only by the overall
outcome rather than specific instructions, mirrors the core of
reinforcement learning.
Reinforcement learning stands apart from the machine learning
approaches we’ve explored in previous chapters in several
fundamental ways. Where supervised learning provides clear right
and wrong answers and unsupervised learning finds hidden patterns,
reinforcement learning introduces a completely different paradigm:
learning through interaction. The most striking difference is that
reinforcement learning doesn’t rely on a dataset of correct answers.
Instead of being shown examples of the “right way” to solve a

--- Strana 783 ---
problem, a reinforcement learning system discovers solutions
through experimentation and feedback. It’s the difference between a
teacher showing you how to solve every math problem versus giving
you problems and only telling you what your final score is.
Figure 10.1 captures the core architecture of reinforcement learning.
At its heart, we see the continuous cycle between an agent and its
environment—the fundamental relationship that drives all
reinforcement learning systems. The agent (represented by the
stylized figure on the left) takes actions based on what it observes,
and these actions affect the environment (shown as the collection of
components in the box on the right). The environment then changes
its state in response to these actions and provides rewards back to
the agent, creating a feedback loop. This cyclical interaction—action,
state change, reward, repeat—is the engine that powers
reinforcement learning.
[+]  Core Concept in Reinforcement Learning
This concept that the environment itself is changed as a result of
the decisions and/or actions that are taken by the agent is a core
distinguishing factor between reinforcement learning and
supervised learning. This means that each time we’re presented
with a choice, the environment might have changed from the
previous time the decision was presented to us. It also means that
we might make a decision that leads us to a point of no return,
thus making all future actions suboptimal!

--- Strana 784 ---
The core concept looks quite simple: Make a decision, and observe
the consequences. What makes this framework so powerful though
is its simplicity and universality. Whether we’re talking about a robot
learning to walk, an AI mastering chess, or a recommendation
system suggesting movies, the same basic structure applies. The
agent continuously updates its understanding based on the rewards
it receives, gradually learning which actions lead to positive
outcomes in different states. Unlike traditional learning approaches,
where correct answers are provided directly, reinforcement learning
discovers optimal behaviors through this interactive trial-and-error
process, making it uniquely suited for problems where the best
strategy isn’t known in advance but must be discovered through
experience.
Figure 10.1     Basic Reinforcement Learning Architecture
This interactive learning creates a unique challenge though. In
supervised learning, we could measure exactly how wrong our
predictions were for each example in our training data. The loss
functions we explored in earlier chapters gave us precise error

--- Strana 785 ---
measurements that guided our gradient descent. But in
reinforcement learning, feedback often comes as a simple signal—
good or bad, reward or penalty—without any details about what
specifically was right or wrong about the action taken. For instance, if
a self-driving car crashes into a curb, there are quite a few actions
that led to this final result, not all of which would be bad actions. So,
we can’t associate this poor result with all of the actions preceding it.
Another crucial distinction is the sequential nature of decisions. In
most of the systems we’ve built so far, each prediction was
independent—classifying one image didn’t affect how we classified
the next. But reinforcement learning tackles problems where current
decisions impact future situations. Like chess players thinking
several moves ahead, reinforcement learning systems must consider
how today’s actions shape tomorrow’s possibilities.
Perhaps the most interesting aspect of reinforcement learning is its
focus on exploration. Our previous models were entirely focused on
exploitation—using what they knew to make the best prediction
possible. But reinforcement learning systems must balance
exploiting what they know works with exploring new possibilities that
might lead to even better results. This exploration-exploitation trade-
off creates a rich learning dynamic that we’ll examine more closely
later in this chapter.
Reinforcement learning also introduces delayed feedback, where the
consequences of actions may only become apparent many steps
later. What would happen if you were trying to learn basketball, and
you only knew whether you won or lost the game, without any

--- Strana 786 ---
feedback on individual shots or passes? This delayed, sparse
feedback creates the credit assignment problem—figuring out which
of many actions were responsible for the eventual outcome.
These unique characteristics of reinforcement learning may seem
challenging, but they’re precisely what makes it suitable for a whole
class of problems that other approaches struggle with. From robotics
to game playing, from resource management to recommendation
systems, reinforcement learning has historically excelled at tasks
where interaction, sequential decision-making, and long-term
planning are essential. Looking at the history of reinforcement
learning is important to understanding where it stands today and why
it’s one of the most promising areas of AI in the future.
10.1.2    Brief History and Major Breakthroughs
This distinctive learning approach has a rich history that stretches
back further than you might expect. While reinforcement learning
may seem like a modern innovation, its roots actually trace back to
the mid-20th century, intertwining with developments in psychology,
neuroscience, and computer science. In the 1950s, researchers
studying animal behavior noticed something strange: Creatures from
lab rats to pigeons could learn complex behaviors through simple
reward mechanisms. Unlike humans being explicitly taught with
detailed instructions, these animals learned by associating certain
actions with positive outcomes. This observation laid the groundwork
for what would eventually become reinforcement learning in AI.

--- Strana 787 ---
The early computational models were simple yet powerful. In 1954,
mathematician Richard Bellman introduced the concept of dynamic
programming—a method for solving problems by breaking them into
subproblems and building up solutions incrementally. If you’ve ever
planned a road trip by deciding the best route, one segment at a
time, you’ve used a similar approach. This mathematical framework
became the foundation for many reinforcement learning algorithms
we use today.
For decades, reinforcement learning remained largely theoretical,
with limited practical applications. The methods worked well for
small, well-defined problems but struggled with anything resembling
real-world complexity. It was like having a calculator that could only
handle single-digit numbers—useful for simple calculations but
inadequate for most meaningful problems. The 1980s and early
1990s brought significant advances that expanded what was
possible. Researchers developed new algorithms such as Q-learning
that could learn effective strategies without needing a complete
model of their environment. This was a bit like learning to navigate a
city without a map—instead of planning your entire route in advance,
you learn which turns tend to get you closer to your destination.
Despite these advances, reinforcement learning still faced a
fundamental limitation: It couldn’t handle complex scenarios with
vast numbers of possible states and actions. Traditional tabular
methods required the system to track every possible situation it
might encounter—an impossible task for any real-world problem of
interest. This is called the state explosion problem.

--- Strana 788 ---
The true breakthrough came when reinforcement learning joined
forces with neural networks—the same powerful pattern recognition
systems we’ve explored in previous chapters. This marriage, which
happened gradually through the 1990s and 2000s, created what we
now call deep reinforcement learning. Instead of trying to catalog
every possible situation, these new systems used neural networks to
recognize patterns and generalize from experience, much like
humans do. This was a game changer—quite literally. In 2013, a
system called Deep Q-Network (DQN) learned to play Atari games
Breakout and Space Invaders directly from screen pixels, without
any prior knowledge of the games’ rules. (For the younger ones
reading this, Atari was a very popular gaming console back in the
day.)
The most dramatic demonstration came in 2016 when AlphaGo
defeated world champion Lee Sedol at the ancient board game Go.
This was a milestone many experts thought was decades away.
Unlike chess, where computers had already proven dominant, Go’s
vast number of possible board configurations made traditional
computational approaches infeasible. AlphaGo’s victory showcased
how reinforcement learning, combined with neural networks, could
master challenges requiring both strategic thinking and intuition.
Since then, reinforcement learning has found applications far beyond
games. It helps robots learn to walk and manipulate objects,
manages data center cooling to improve energy efficiency, optimizes
trading strategies in financial markets, and even assists in drug
discovery by exploring possible molecular structures. Perhaps most

--- Strana 789 ---
relevant to our discussion of transformers, reinforcement learning
has become central to training LLMs. These systems initially learn
from vast datasets through supervised learning, but reinforcement
learning from human feedback helps refine their outputs to be more
helpful, harmless, and honest. The remarkable history we’ve just
traced shows how a simple idea—learning from interaction with an
environment—has evolved into one of the most powerful approaches
in modern AI, solving problems in many domains in the real world.
10.1.3    Real-World Applications
The gradual shift from theoretical breakthrough to practical
application is what transforms interesting ideas into world-changing
technologies. While the history we’ve just explored showcases how
reinforcement learning evolved as a field, its real impact becomes
clear when we look at how it’s solving problems across diverse
industries today. Let’s start close to home with the digital assistants
many of us probably interact with daily. When you chat with a
modern AI assistant, you’re experiencing the benefits of
reinforcement learning. These systems initially learn language
patterns from vast amounts of text, but it’s reinforcement learning
that helps refine their responses to be more helpful, accurate, and
aligned with human values. When the assistant gives you a
particularly good answer versus one that misses the mark, that
difference often comes from this fine-tuning process where the
system learned from feedback about which responses humans
preferred.

--- Strana 790 ---
In health care, reinforcement learning is beginning to transform how
we approach treatment planning. Consider the challenge of
managing chronic conditions such as diabetes. Traditional
approaches might use fixed protocols based on average patient
outcomes, but reinforcement learning can help personalize treatment
plans by learning from individual patient data and responses over
time. The system adapts its recommendations based on how specific
patients respond to different interventions, much like how a skilled
doctor adjusts treatment strategies based on what works for each
unique person.
The field of robotics has been revolutionized by these techniques as
well. Teaching robots to manipulate objects used to require
painstaking programming of every possible movement. Now, robotic
systems can learn these skills through practice and feedback. A
robot arm trying to pick up an unusual object might initially fumble,
but with each attempt, it gets better at understanding how to position
its gripper and apply the right amount of pressure. This learning-by-
doing approach allows robots to master tasks that would be nearly
impossible to program explicitly.
Energy management represents another exciting application. Google
famously used reinforcement learning to reduce the cooling energy
needs in their data centers by 40%. Rather than following rigid
temperature control rules, the system learned which cooling
strategies worked best under different conditions by experimenting
with various approaches and observing the results. The outcome

--- Strana 791 ---
was not only more energy-efficient but also adaptable to changing
conditions such as weather patterns or server loads.
In transportation, reinforcement learning is helping optimize
everything from traffic light timing to ride-sharing services. Traffic
management systems in cities such as Pittsburgh have reduced wait
times at intersections by learning to adjust timing based on real-time
traffic flow rather than following fixed schedules. These systems
improve with experience, adapting to changing traffic patterns over
time without requiring human reprogramming.
Financial markets have also embraced this technology. Trading
algorithms can learn strategies by interacting with market
simulations, discovering patterns and approaches that might not be
obvious to human traders. What makes these systems particularly
valuable is their ability to adapt to rapidly changing environments,
learning new strategies as old ones become less effective.
Perhaps one of the most promising frontiers is drug discovery.
Traditional approaches require scientists to laboriously test
compounds one by one. Reinforcement learning systems can
explore the vast space of possible molecular structures, learning
which characteristics tend to produce effective drugs for specific
targets. These systems get better with each virtual experiment,
gradually focusing on the most promising areas of chemical space.
Resource management in industries from agriculture to
manufacturing is being transformed by these techniques as well.
Irrigation systems can learn optimal watering schedules based on

--- Strana 792 ---
soil conditions, weather forecasts, and crop responses. Factory
production lines can adapt scheduling to maximize efficiency while
responding to equipment failures or supply chain disruptions.
[+]  Rule of Thumb for Reinforcement Learning Applicability
All the scenarios where reinforcement learning has been used are
those where the best solution isn’t obvious from the start and must
be discovered through interaction and feedback. They involve
complex environments with many variables, where actions today
affect possibilities tomorrow and where the relationship between
actions and outcomes isn’t always straightforward. If you identify
any problem that fits this bill, reinforcement learning can most
likely help solve it.
As we dive deeper into the mechanics of reinforcement learning in
the coming sections, keep these real-world applications in mind. The
concepts we’ll explore—from reward signals to exploration strategies
—are practical tools driving innovation across industries. The
fundamental principles that help a game-playing AI master chess are
the same ones helping doctors personalize treatments and robots
learn new skills.
10.1.4    Challenges Unique to Reinforcement Learning
Before we dive into the inner workings of reinforcement learning
systems, let’s take a moment to survey the landscape ahead.

--- Strana 793 ---
Understanding the unique challenges in this field will give us a road
map for our journey, helping us approach these deep concepts in a
targeted way. Interestingly, these challenges are the very reasons
this field has developed its distinctive approaches and why certain
applications remained out of reach until recent breakthroughs.
These unique challenges have driven the development of
specialized approaches that we’ll explore throughout this chapter.
From value functions that help bridge temporal gaps, to curiosity
mechanisms that encourage exploration, to function approximators
that tackle the state space explosion—each core technique in
reinforcement learning addresses one or more of these fundamental
challenges.
By keeping the following challenges in mind as we proceed, you’ll
gain not just a collection of algorithms and methods but a deeper
understanding of why reinforcement learning works the way it does
and how its approaches have evolved to overcome these distinctive
obstacles. A detailed understanding will also help you understand
Keras code when we get to it—code that is going to be dense and
concise as is true for all of Keras.
Credit Assignment Problem
The first major challenge is the credit assignment problem we
mentioned earlier. When AlphaGo made a brilliant move that led to
victory 20 turns later, how could the system know to reinforce that
particular decision? The connection between action and eventual

--- Strana 794 ---
outcome isn’t always obvious, and this temporal gap creates one of
the fundamental puzzles in reinforcement learning. We’ll see various
ingenious solutions to this problem as we progress through the
chapter.
Exploration and Exploitation
The second major challenge revolves around exploration and
exploitation. Picture yourself at a new restaurant. Do you order your
favorite dish (exploitation of what you know works) or try something
new that might be even better (exploration)? Too much exploitation
means you might miss outstanding options you haven’t explored yet.
Too much exploration means you might order something you
absolutely don’t like and waste the opportunity to enjoy a meal you
already know you like. In reinforcement learning, this dilemma is
constant and crucial. A system that always exploits what it already
knows will get stuck in suboptimal strategies, never discovering
better approaches. But a system that’s always exploring never
settles down to use what it has learned. Finding the right balance—
knowing when to stick with what works and when to try something
new—represents a fundamental challenge that shapes many
reinforcement learning algorithms.
Scale of Possibilities
A third challenge is the sheer scale of possibilities in most interesting
problems. Consider a relatively simple game such as chess. The

--- Strana 795 ---
number of possible board positions exceeds the number of atoms in
the observable universe! Creating a table that stores the best move
for every possible situation is simply impossible. And that’s just
chess—real-world problems like driving a car or managing a
complex supply chain have even more staggering numbers of
potential states. This state space explosion means reinforcement
learning systems need ways to generalize from limited experience,
recognizing patterns and similarities across situations rather than
treating each one as unique. It’s like how a human driver doesn’t
need to see every possible road configuration to drive safely but
instead generalizes from their experiences to handle new situations.
Dynamic and Interactive Learning
The fourth challenge comes from the dynamic and interactive nature
of the learning process itself. In supervised learning, our dataset
remains fixed as the model learns. But in reinforcement learning, the
very act of learning changes what the system experiences next. This
creates a moving target for learning as the distribution of
experiences shifts based on the system’s evolving behavior. What
worked well under an old policy might never be experienced under a
new one, making it difficult to properly evaluate and improve
strategies. This challenge requires special techniques to ensure
stable, effective learning.

--- Strana 796 ---
Sparse Reward
Finally, reinforcement learning faces the sparse reward challenge. In
many problems, meaningful feedback comes rarely. Consider a robot
learning to walk—it might try thousands of different movements
before stumbling forward even slightly. Or a system learning to play
a complex strategy game might go through many, many moves
before achieving victory or defeat. Before this eventual outcome of
the game, there’s no concrete signal as to whether the decisions
being made are smart ones or not. This sparsity makes learning
painfully slow without techniques to address it.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 797 ---
10.2    Key Concepts: Agents, Environments,
Rewards
In this section, we’ll cover the core concepts behind reinforcement
learning and see how they fit into a larger whole to the solve the
problem of learning by doing. To do this, we must first formulate the
problem concisely.
10.2.1    Structure of the Reinforcement Learning
Framework
Let’s build a more structured understanding of the reinforcement
learning framework—the stage upon which this interplay of decisions
and consequences unfolds. Reinforcement learning operates within
a surprisingly simple yet powerful framework that mimics how we
humans learn through trial and error. At its heart, this framework
consists of three fundamental components working in concert: an
agent, an environment, and a reward system. Picture a child learning
to ride a bicycle for the first time. The child is our agent—the
decision-maker trying to master a skill. The bicycle and the physical
world around it form the environment—everything the agent interacts
with but doesn’t directly control. The feeling of success when staying
upright or the pain of falling represents the reward signal or simply
reward—feedback about how well the agent is performing. In
computational terms, this interaction follows a rhythmic pattern. The

--- Strana 798 ---
agent observes the current state of the environment—like the child
noticing they’re starting to tilt to one side. Based on this observation,
the agent takes an action—the child shifts their weight to regain
balance. The environment then transitions to a new state and
provides a reward signal—perhaps the child stays upright (positive
reward) or wobbles precariously (negative reward).
This cycle of observation, action, and reward forms what we call the
reinforcement learning loop. It continues as the agent repeatedly
interacts with the environment, gradually building a map of which
actions lead to the best outcomes in different situations. Unlike
supervised learning, where the signal is provided in the form of a
correct answer, reinforcement learning requires the agent to discover
effective strategies through this continuous feedback loop. What
makes this framework so powerful is its generality. The same basic
structure applies whether we’re teaching an AI to play chess,
navigating a robot through a warehouse, or optimizing energy usage
in a data center. The specific details of the agent, environment, and
reward function will change, but the fundamental pattern of
interaction remains consistent.
The reinforcement learning framework also introduces a formal way
to think about goals. The objective of the agent isn’t just to maximize
the immediate reward after each action but to maximize the total
cumulative reward over time. This subtle distinction leads to
profoundly different behavior—sometimes accepting short-term
penalties to achieve greater rewards in the future, just as a game
player might sacrifice a piece to secure victory several moves later.

--- Strana 799 ---
The overall reinforcement learning ecosystem is shown in
Figure 10.2. This figure shows the anatomy of reinforcement learning
systems that shows how all the key pieces fit together. At the center
sits reinforcement learning paradigm itself, connected to five critical
components that form its ecosystem.
Agent Architecture
On the left, this acts as the brain of the system, housing the
decision-making machinery.
State Representation
At the top right, this functions as the agent’s perceptual system,
determining how it understands the world around it. This is an
abstraction over the environment and agent details.
Reward Structure
At the bottom left, this serves as the motivation system, shaping
what the agent considers valuable or worth pursuing.
Environment Types
At the bottom center, this define the playground where learning
happens, with different environments presenting unique
challenges.
Learning Mechanism
At the bottom right, this represents the educational process itself
—how the agent collects experiences and improves over time.
While we’ve touched on some of these components in our
introduction, we’ll explore each one in detail throughout this
chapter, gradually building a complete understanding of how these

--- Strana 800 ---
pieces work together to create systems that learn through
interaction and feedback.
Figure 10.2     Components of the Reinforcement Learning Ecosystem
10.2.2    Environment Design and State Representation
Having established the reinforcement learning framework as our
foundation, let’s turn our attention to one of its most crucial
components: the environment and how we represent its states. The
environment is the world in which our agent operates—it’s everything
outside the agent’s direct control but within its sphere of interaction.
Think about a video game character navigating through a complex
level. The character is the agent, while everything else—the terrain,
obstacles, enemies, power-ups—forms the environment. How we
design this environment and represent its state profoundly shapes
what our agent can learn and how effectively it can learn it.
Environments in reinforcement learning come in endless varieties.
They can be as simple as a grid world where an agent moves up,
down, left, or right, or as complex as a physics simulation modeling

--- Strana 801 ---
the intricate dynamics of a robotic arm. Some environments are
deterministic, where actions always lead to the same outcomes,
such as moving a chess piece. Others are stochastic, introducing
elements of randomness and uncertainty, such as predicting stock
market movements or controlling a drone in unpredictable wind
conditions. Regardless of their complexity, all reinforcement learning
environments share a common trait: They must provide the agent
with some representation of their current state. This state
representation is like a snapshot that the agent uses to decide its
next move. It’s the agent’s window into the world—the information it
has available when making decisions.
Creating an effective state representation is both an art and a
science. Consider what happens when we try to teach an AI to play
Atari games such as Breakout or Space Invaders. We could
represent the state as the raw pixels on the screen—every colored
dot in the game’s display. While comprehensive, this approach
creates an enormous state space that’s difficult for the agent to
make sense of. Alternatively, we might extract higher-level features:
the position of the paddle, the location of the ball, the arrangement of
bricks. This more compact representation makes learning more
efficient but requires careful design decisions about what information
is truly relevant.
[»]  State Representation in the Real World
The challenge of state representation becomes even more
pronounced in real-world applications. Consider building a

--- Strana 802 ---
reinforcement learning system to optimize traffic flow in a city.
What should constitute the state? Current vehicle positions?
Traffic light timings? Historical traffic patterns? Weather
conditions? Each element we include increases the richness of the
state representation but also exponentially expands the state
space the agent must learn to navigate.
This leads us to a fundamental tension in environment design: the
trade-off between completeness and simplicity. A more complete
state representation gives the agent more information to work with
but makes learning slower and more difficult. A simpler
representation speeds up learning but might omit crucial details,
limiting what the agent can ultimately achieve. Moreover, the state
representation needs to capture the aspects of the environment that
make it what we call Markovian—a property where the current state
provides all the information needed to make the optimal decision
without requiring history. If a traffic management system needs to
know not just current traffic conditions but also how they’ve changed
over the past hour to make good decisions, then a single snapshot
isn’t a sufficient state representation.
Creating good environments also involves thoughtful consideration
of boundaries. In the bicycle learning example from our previous
section, we treated the child as the agent and everything else as the
environment. But we could have drawn the boundary differently—
considering the child-bicycle system as the agent and only the

--- Strana 803 ---
external world as the environment. These design choices affect what
actions are available to the agent and what falls outside its control.
As we craft environments for reinforcement learning, we must also
decide how to handle time. Some environments operate in discrete
time steps, where the agent makes a single decision at each point
and then waits for the next. Others flow continuously, requiring the
agent to decide not just what to do but when to do it. Think of the
difference between a turn-based strategy game and driving a car—
one proceeds in neat, orderly turns, while the other demands
constant, fluid adjustment. The careful design of environments and
state representations lays the groundwork for successful
reinforcement learning. In the next section, we’ll explore how agents
navigate these environments through policy functions—the
strategies that translate states into actions as the agent pursues its
goals.
10.2.3    Understanding Agents and Policy Functions
With our environment established and state representation clarified,
it’s time to focus on the star of the reinforcement learning paradigm:
the agent. If the environment is the stage, then the agent is our
leading actor—the decision-maker who observes, learns, and acts to
achieve its goals. An agent in reinforcement learning encompasses
everything involved in making decisions. Consider a self-driving car
navigating city streets. The car itself—with its sensors, processors,
and control systems—constitutes the agent. It perceives the world

--- Strana 804 ---
through cameras and lidar sensors, processes this information, and
decides whether to accelerate, brake, or turn.
What makes agents truly remarkable is their capacity to learn. Unlike
traditional programs with hardcoded rules, reinforcement learning
agents develop their own strategies through experience. They start
with little knowledge about the best course of action in any situation
and gradually refine their approach based on the rewards and
penalties they receive. At the heart of this lies a policy—the strategy
that guides the agent’s behavior. A policy is essentially a mapping
from states to actions. It’s comparable to how an experienced driver
knows intuitively when to slow down for a curve or how to respond
when another vehicle cuts in front.
[+]  The Crux of the Policy Concept
Think of the policy as a function that takes a state as input and
returns an action—one that answers the fundamental question: “In
this state, what should I do?” This abstraction will later help us
move on to more complex decision-making processes, while
leaving all the other code intact.
Policies come in two main varieties: deterministic and stochastic. A
deterministic policy is like a cookbook recipe—given a specific state,
it always prescribes the same action. If you see a red light, you stop;
if you see a green light, you go—simple and predictable. A stochastic
policy, on the other hand, introduces an element of probability. For
instance, a policy can say, “In state X, take action A with 70%

--- Strana 805 ---
probability, action B with 20% probability, and action C with 10%
probability.” This built-in randomness might seem counterintuitive at
first—why wouldn’t we always want to take the best action? But this
variability serves a crucial purpose: It helps the agent explore new
possibilities that might lead to better outcomes in the long run.
Consider a robot learning to walk. A deterministic policy might get
stuck repeatedly trying the same ineffective gait. A stochastic policy,
however, occasionally tries something different—a slight adjustment
in timing or balance—potentially discovering a more efficient walking
pattern it wouldn’t have found otherwise.
Alternatively, as agents interact with their environments, they may
refine their policies through various learning mechanisms. Some
agents maintain an internal model of how the world works—
predicting how each action will change the state and what rewards it
might yield. Others take a more direct approach, simply learning
which actions tend to produce good results in different situations
without trying to understand why.
The structures of policies can take many forms in practice. For
simple environments with few states and actions, a policy might be
represented as a lookup table—a grid showing which action to take
in each possible state. But for most interesting problems, the state
space is far too vast for such an approach. This is where neural
networks come in. As we’ve seen since the start of this book, a
neural network can serve as a powerful function approximator, taking
a state as input and outputting the recommended action or
probability distribution over actions. The network’s weights and

--- Strana 806 ---
connections, adjusted during training, encode the policy learned
through experience.
Picture a neural network controlling our self-driving car. The network
receives inputs representing the current state—road conditions,
nearby vehicles, traffic signals—and outputs control decisions for
steering, acceleration, and braking. Initially, these decisions might be
poor, but as the network experiences different driving scenarios and
receives feedback on its performance, the policy gradually improves.
What makes policy functions particularly challenging though in
reinforcement learning is their dynamic nature. In supervised
learning, the correct output for a given input remains constant
throughout training. But in reinforcement learning, the optimal action
for a given state changes as the agent’s policy evolves. It’s like trying
to hit a moving target—the very act of learning shifts what needs to
be learned.
As we’ll explore in upcoming sections, agents use sophisticated
algorithms to update their policies based on experience. Some, such
as Q-learning, focus on estimating the value of different state-action
pairs. Others, such as policy gradient methods, directly adjust the
policy to maximize expected rewards.
10.2.4    Reward Engineering and Signal Design
Now that we understand agents and their policy functions, let’s turn
our attention to perhaps the most powerful—and trickiest—aspect of
reinforcement learning: the reward system. A reward in

--- Strana 807 ---
reinforcement learning is quantitative feedback that the environment
provides to the agent after each action. Think of it as nature’s way of
saying, “That was good” or “That was terrible.” When a baby takes
its first steps, the reward might be the joy of mobility and the excited
reactions of parents. When a chess player captures an opponent’s
queen, the reward is the strategic advantage gained.
[ ! ]  Not All Rewards Are Created Equal
We’ve mentioned that rewards are provided after each action. This
is primarily to make the mathematics cleaner. In most real-world
use cases, rewards after a majority of actions are going to be zero,
that is, no signal. Only after a lot of time has passed and quite a
few actions are taken will the agent get any useful feedback.
Creating an effective reward system is both an art and a science,
which is called reward engineering. It’s like being a parent who must
decide when to offer praise and when to provide correction, knowing
that these signals will shape behavior for years to come. Coming up
with an automated mechanism of reward engineering is an open
area of research. However, there are some methods we can use.
The most straightforward approach is to directly connect rewards to
the ultimate goal. If we want a robot to reach a destination, we might
give it a large positive reward upon arrival. If we want an AI to win at
chess, the reward could be +50 for winning, -50 for losing, and -10
for a draw (assuming we don’t want a draw). This is simple and
intuitive, but real-world problems are rarely so neat. Consider

--- Strana 808 ---
teaching a robot to walk. If we only reward successful walking, the
robot might never receive any positive signal in its early attempts,
leaving it with no guidance on how to improve. This is the sparse
reward problem—when meaningful feedback comes too infrequently
to guide learning effectively.
To address this challenge, we often design shaped rewards that
provide helpful intermediate feedback. For our walking robot, we
might reward small improvements: maintaining balance for a few
seconds, shifting weight correctly, or moving a leg forward. These
stepping-stone rewards create a more gradual learning path toward
the ultimate goal. However, reward shaping comes with its own
pitfalls. Each time we engineer a reward signal, we risk introducing
unintended consequences. A famous example is an AI trained to play
the boat-racing game Coast Runners. Researchers designed a
reward based on points scored in the game, assuming this would
encourage winning races. Instead, the AI discovered it could score
more points by going in circles and collecting power-ups, completely
ignoring the race!
This phenomenon, sometimes called reward hacking, is the
reinforcement learning equivalent of “teaching to the test.” The agent
optimizes for the reward signal we’ve provided rather than the
underlying goal we intended. It’s like a student who memorizes past
exam papers and question patterns without understanding concepts.
Reward systems also need to balance immediate gratification
against long-term benefits—the classic now-versus-later trade-off. In

--- Strana 809 ---
reinforcement learning, we typically use a concept called discounting
to address this balance, valuing immediate rewards more highly than
distant ones. It’s similar to how humans naturally value $100 today,
more than $100 a year from now. We’ll return to this extensively as
we look at the learning algorithms in the next few sections.
The mathematical formulation of rewards offers several options. The
most common approach is to define the agent’s goal as maximizing
the expected sum of discounted rewards over time. This leads to
policies that balance short-term gains against long-term prospects,
much as we do in our own decision-making. For some problems
though, we might care more about the average reward over time
rather than the total. This approach makes sense for continuing
tasks without a clear endpoint, such as managing a perpetual
investment portfolio or controlling an ongoing industrial process.
Rewards can also be relative rather than absolute. In competitive
environments, the reward might depend on outperforming others
rather than reaching a fixed threshold. This dynamic appears in
multi-agent systems where agents compete for limited resources or
in scenarios where success is defined by comparison to peers.
As we craft reward systems, we must remain mindful of ethical
considerations. Reinforcement learning agents will single-mindedly
pursue the rewards we specify, sometimes finding unexpected
shortcuts that technically maximize rewards while violating the spirit
of our intentions. This reward hacking isn’t malicious—it’s simply the

--- Strana 810 ---
agent finding optimal solutions to the problem as we’ve defined it,
not as we meant to define it.
[ ! ]  The Pitfalls of Reward Engineering
The art of reward engineering highlights a profound truth about
reinforcement learning: our agents become what we incentivize
them to become. By carefully designing reward signals, we shape
who our agents become as decision-makers. This seemingly
academic discussion is becoming more and more prudent as AI
systems based on reinforcement learning become more commonly
used.
10.2.5    The Exploration vs. Exploitation Dilemma
Having designed our reward system to guide our agent’s learning,
we now face a fundamental tension that sits at the heart of
reinforcement learning: the balance between exploration and
exploitation. This dilemma resembles choices we make in our own
lives—when to stick with what we know works versus when to
venture into uncharted territory in search of something better.
Exploitation means using what we already know. It’s returning to that
restaurant we enjoyed, using the strategy that’s been working, or
sticking with the familiar path. For our reinforcement learning agent,
exploitation means selecting actions that, based on current
knowledge, will yield the highest expected rewards. It’s the
conservative “play it safe” approach that maximizes short-term gains.

--- Strana 811 ---
Exploration, on the other hand, means venturing into the unknown.
It’s trying the new restaurant, testing a different strategy, or taking
the road less traveled. For our agent, exploration involves
deliberately choosing actions that aren’t currently believed to be
optimal (or even at times believed to be dangerous) that might lead
to discoveries that improve future performance. It’s the adventurous
“what if” approach that sacrifices immediate rewards for information.
Neither pure exploitation nor pure exploration works well in isolation.
An agent that only exploits will likely get stuck with mediocre
strategies, never discovering better alternatives. It’s like a person
who eats at the same decent restaurant every night, unaware that an
extraordinary culinary experience awaits just around the corner.
Conversely, an agent that only explores will constantly try new things
without ever capitalizing on what it learns, like a perpetual tourist
who samples a different restaurant each night but never returns to
the gems they discovered earlier in their exploration.
The key to effective reinforcement learning lies in balancing these
competing impulses. Early in learning, exploration should dominate
—the agent needs to gather information about its environment and
the consequences of different actions. Over time, as the agent builds
knowledge, exploitation should gradually take precedence—applying
what’s been learned to maximize rewards. Several strategies have
evolved to manage this delicate balance. One of the simplest is the 
-greedy approach (epsilon-greedy approach). The agent acts
greedily—choosing the best-known action—most of the time, but
occasionally, with probability , it selects a random action instead. It’s

--- Strana 812 ---
like mostly going to your favorite restaurants but once in a while
picking a place at random, just to see what’s out there. As learning
progresses, we typically reduce , gradually shifting from exploration
toward exploitation.
More sophisticated methods such as Boltzmann exploration use a
temperature parameter to control randomness in action selection.
High temperature means actions are chosen almost randomly (high
exploration), while low temperature concentrates probability on the
currently estimated best actions (high exploitation). This creates a
smooth transition between the two extremes. This temperature
parameter is commonly used in latest models to control how wild the
model’s outputs are allowed to get. Upper Confidence Bound (UCB)
algorithms take yet another approach, explicitly tracking uncertainty
about action values. These methods favor actions that either seem
promising based on past rewards or have been tried fewer times
(thus having higher uncertainty). It’s akin to preferring restaurants
that have either proven to be excellent or that you haven’t visited
enough times to judge fairly but avoiding those that you know for
sure aren’t according to your liking.
The exploration-exploitation dilemma becomes particularly
challenging in environments with large or continuous state spaces.
When the possible situations an agent might encounter are virtually
limitless (as is the case with most real-world problems), it becomes
impossible to explore them all. In these complex domains, we rely on
generalization—the agent’s ability to apply learning from familiar
situations to new, similar ones. The dynamics of exploration versus

--- Strana 813 ---
exploitation also shift dramatically depending on the task’s horizon—
how long the agent has to learn and perform. In short-horizon tasks
with limited interactions, the agent might need to be more aggressive
about exploitation, making the most of its brief opportunity. In long-
horizon or continuing tasks, the agent can afford more thorough
exploration, confident that the knowledge gained will pay dividends
over an extended period.
[»]  Regrets of Life
One slightly advanced concept in reinforcement learning is that of
regret—the difference between the rewards an agent actually
accumulates and what it could have earned with perfect
knowledge. Every exploratory action carries an immediate
opportunity cost (the regret of not exploiting), but successful
exploration reduces future regret by improving the agent’s policy.
Regret is difficult to quantify, and figuring out a solution to this
complex problem is an open area of research.
As we move forward into the more mathematical foundations of
reinforcement learning in the next section, this exploration-
exploitation dilemma will take formal shape in our algorithms. We’ll
see how concepts such as Markov Decision Processes (MDPs)
provide the framework for quantifying the value of different states
and actions, allowing us to make principled decisions about when to
explore and when to exploit. The mathematical tools we’ll develop
won’t eliminate this fundamental tension, but they’ll give us powerful

--- Strana 814 ---
ways to manage it—transforming an intuitive balancing act into
precise computational strategies for learning optimal behavior in
complex, uncertain worlds. Let’s turn to this mathematical
formalization in the following section.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 815 ---
10.3    Popular Algorithms: Q-Learning, Policy
Gradients, and Deep Q-Networks
Now that we understand the core components of reinforcement
learning—agents, environments, and rewards—we need a formal
framework to tie everything together. In this section, we’ll formalize
this framework.
10.3.1    The Markov Decision Processes
The core concept behind reinforcement learning is that of Markov
Decision Processes (MDPs) mentioned earlier. MDPs give us the
mathematical language to describe the reinforcement learning
problem in a way that’s both precise and flexible. An MDP is like the
rulebook for our reinforcement learning game. It defines how states,
actions, and rewards interact over time, giving us a structured way to
approach complex decision-making problems. The Markov part of the
name refers to a key property: the future depends only on the
present, not on the path that led to the present.
Consider the game of chess. In this game, the Markov property
means that to decide your next move, you only need to know the
current arrangement of pieces on the board. The sequence of moves
that created this arrangement doesn’t matter—only the current state
does. This property significantly simplifies our mathematical model
while still capturing the essence of many real-world problems.

--- Strana 816 ---
Formally, an MDP consists of five key elements:
A set of states S
A set of actions A
A transition function 
A reward function 
A discount factor  (gamma)
Let’s unpack each of these components to understand how they work
together. The set of states S represents all possible situations our
agent might find itself in. In our chess example, each state would be a
different arrangement of pieces on the board. In a self-driving car,
states might include the car’s position, speed, and the locations of
nearby vehicles and obstacles. The set of actions A includes
everything our agent can do. In chess, these are all legal moves; for a
robot, they might be commands such as “move forward” or “turn left.”
The available actions might depend on the state—not all moves are
legal in every chess position, after all.
The transition function 
 is where things get interesting. This
function tells us the probability of ending up in state  after taking
action a from state s. It’s written as
This equation might look intimidating, but it’s simply saying: What’s
the chance we’ll land in state  if we’re currently in state s and we
take action a? In chess, where moves are deterministic, this
probability would be either 0 or 1. But many real-world problems

--- Strana 817 ---
involve randomness—such as a robot whose wheels might slip on a
wet surface. We’ll see an example of such randomness when we do
our case study using Keras later in this chapter.
The reward function 
 defines the immediate reward
received after transitioning from state s to state  by taking action a.
Sometimes, this is simplified to R( s, a) or even just R( s) when
rewards depend only on the state or state-action pair. In a game, the
reward might be +1 for winning, -1 for losing, and 0 for all other
moves.
Finally, the discount factor  (a value between 0 and 1) determines
how much we care about future rewards compared to immediate
ones. A value close to 0 makes our agent myopic, focusing mainly on
immediate rewards. A value close to 1 makes it more farsighted,
willing to sacrifice immediate rewards for greater ones in the future. In
mathematical terms, if we have a sequence of rewards rt, rt+1, rt+2, ...,
the total discounted reward would be
Or, more compactly, it would be
The discount factor serves several purposes. Mathematically, it
ensures that our total reward remains finite even in never-ending
tasks. Practically, it reflects the reality that future rewards are less
certain—a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush, as they say. And
in terms of learning, it creates a clear hierarchy of value: Immediate

--- Strana 818 ---
rewards are more important than distant ones. With these five
elements in place, our MDP completely describes the reinforcement
learning problem. The agent’s goal becomes finding a policy  (a
strategy for choosing actions) that maximizes the expected total
discounted reward from any starting state.
The magic of MDPs lies in their generality. They can represent an
incredible variety of problems—from playing chess to managing
investment portfolios, from controlling robots to optimizing traffic
signals. Despite this flexibility, they maintain enough structure to allow
for powerful solution methods, which we’ll explore in the next sections
when we dive into Q-learning and other algorithms. As we move
forward to explore Q-learning and DQNs, these MDP fundamentals
will serve as our foundation. We’ll see how these algorithms use the
MDP framework to learn optimal policies, trading off exploration and
exploitation to maximize long-term rewards. The ability to represent
complex decision-making processes in the elegant language of MDPs
is what makes reinforcement learning such a powerful approach to a
wide range of challenging problems. All of this starts with the simple
concept of assigning values to each state.
10.3.2    Value Functions and Q-Tables
Now that we have our MDP framework in place, we need a way to
solve it. Remember, our ultimate goal is finding a policy—a strategy
for selecting actions—that maximizes the expected rewards over
time. To find this optimal policy, we use the concepts of value

--- Strana 819 ---
functions and their practical implementation as Q-tables. Value
functions are like maps of treasure buried throughout our
environment. They tell us how much future reward we can expect to
gather starting from any given situation. When our agent has this
map, making good decisions becomes much more straightforward—
simply head in the direction where the treasure is most abundant.
[ ! ]  Note the Wording
Note the carefully used wording: A state’s value tells us how well
you expect to do starting from this state. It doesn’t care how good
the state itself is or how well we did before we arrived in this state.
Values are all about the future! This is an important distinction to
keep in mind as we proceed into the details of these algorithms.
There are two primary types of value functions that play crucial roles
in reinforcement learning:
State-value function (
)
This tells us how good it is to be in a particular state, assuming we
follow policy  afterward.
Action-value function (
)
This tells us how good it is to take a specific action from a
particular state and then follow policy  afterward. This Q is where
all the Qs in the algorithm names (Q-Learning, DQN, Double DQN,
etc.) come from in reinforcement learning. So, if you know all the
action-values for a state, you can take their max and get the state-
value!

--- Strana 820 ---
The state-value function $V^\pi(s)$ is defined mathematically as
This equation might look intimidating, but it’s expressing a simple
idea: The value of a state is the expected sum of discounted rewards
when starting from that state and following policy  thereafter. It’s like
asking the following: On average, how much reward will I collect if I
start here and follow my strategy?
The action-value function 
 is defined similarly, but considers
the initial action:
This asks the following: On average, how much reward will I collect if
I take this specific action (a) now, and then follow my strategy
afterward? This means that these functions are related in a
straightforward way. For any policy :
This says that the value of a state equals the expected value of the
actions we might take from that state, weighted by how likely we are
to take each action under our current policy. The beauty of these
value functions is that once we know them accurately, finding the
optimal policy becomes almost trivial. The optimal policy simply
chooses the action with the highest Q-value in each state:

--- Strana 821 ---
But how do we calculate these value functions in the first place? This
is where Q-tables enter the picture. A Q-table is a practical
implementation of the action-value function for environments with
discrete states and actions. Think of a spreadsheet where each row
represents a state, each column represents an action, and each cell
contains the Q-value for that state-action pair. Initially, these values
might be random or all zeros, but as our agent interacts with the
environment, it updates the Q-values based on the rewards it
receives. Let’s visualize this with our grid world example from earlier.
Imagine a 3×3 grid where our robot can move in four directions (up,
down, left, right). Our Q-table would look something like that shown in
Table 10.1.
State Up
Down Left Right
(0, 0)
?
0.0
0.0
0.0
(0, 1)
?
0.0
0.0
15.2
(0, 2)
0.0 ?
0.0
0.0
(1, 0)
0.0 ?
0.0
0.0
…
…
…
…
…
(2, 2)
0.0 0.0
0.0
0.0
Table 10.1     Example Q-Table Not Completely Filled
The question marks represent Q-values that we don’t know yet. As
our agent explores the environment, it will gradually fill in these

--- Strana 822 ---
values. For instance, if moving right from position (0, 1) consistently
leads to good outcomes, the corresponding Q-value will increase. As
the table currently stands, the “Right” action from state (0,1) shows
the value 15.2. This means that if we take the “Right” action from
state (0, 1), we expect to on average receive 15.2 reward points.
10.3.3    Building the Q-Table
For very small environments, we can store the entire Q-table
explicitly. For our 3×3 grid with 4 actions, we only need 9 × 4 = 36
entries—easily manageable in memory. However, as environments
grow more complex, the tables expand rapidly. A simple Atari game
might have millions or billions of distinct states. This curse of
dimensionality becomes a serious problem, which eventually leads us
to function approximation methods such as DQNs (more on these
later in the chapter). Let’s stick to the simpler environments now to
get a deep understanding of the Q-values so that we can scale them
up later based on the same beautiful concepts. One of these is that
they allow our agent to improve its policy without directly modeling
the environment’s transition dynamics. We don’t need to know exactly
how the environment will respond to each action—our agent can
learn the Q-values through experience.
To do this, we need a way to update the values based on the agent’s
interactions with the environment. This is made possible by the
Bellman equation. This equation expresses a recursive relationship
between the value of a state and the values of successor states as

--- Strana 823 ---
where
r is the immediate reward.
 is the discount factor.
 is the next state we’ll reach if we take the action a
 is the previously known maximum Q-value possible
from .
This equation captures a fundamental insight: The value of taking
action a in state s equals the immediate reward plus the discounted
value of the best action starting from the resulting state. However, we
rarely know the true Q-values in advance—we need to estimate them
from experience. This leads us to iterative methods that gradually
improve our estimates, and the most famous of these is Q-learning,
which we’ll explore in detail in the next section.
Consider the example given earlier of forming opinions about
restaurants. The first time you visit a new café, you have certain
expectations. Maybe the decor looks promising or perhaps a friend
recommended it. Let’s say this is our current Q-value of taking the
action of eating at this restaurant. After your meal, you have actual
experience to inform your opinion. This is the new reward you’ve
received—either positive or negative. The question is, how much
should you trust this new experience versus your prior expectations?
If the food was amazing but the service was terrible, how should you
update your overall rating of the place? If a waiter spilled water on

--- Strana 824 ---
your shirt, do you consider this a one-off and don’t let it affect your
impression of the restaurant too much? Or do you think this is just
what this restaurant is all about—poor quality?
We face this same dilemma when updating our Q-values. When our
agent takes action a in state s, receives reward r, and moves to a
new state , it gains a piece of evidence about the value of that state-
action pair. But this is just one experience—should it completely
override our previous estimate? Intuitively, we want to blend our
previous knowledge with our new experience. If we’ve visited that
restaurant many times before, one bad meal shouldn’t completely
change our opinion. But if it’s our first visit, that single experience
might carry more weight.
Let’s start with the simplest case: What if we gave equal weight to our
existing estimate and our new experience? This balanced approach
would look like this:
But what exactly is this new experience in terms of Q-values? It
consists of two parts:
The immediate reward r we received
The expected future value, represented by the best Q-value in the
next state: 
Because we care about long-term rewards, we discount future
rewards by factor . So, our new experience becomes

--- Strana 825 ---
 as discussed previously. Plugging this into our
balanced update formula, we get
We can generalize this to use  as our learning rate instead of a half.
This gives us a knob to tune our learning as we go along. This way,
the final update looks like
where currently  is set to a half. This is the core of the Q-learning
algorithm. We start with zeroing out all Q-values and then start
visiting different states gaining experiences. With each action, we’re
given a reward that we use to update the Q-values we’ve based on
the hyperparameters  and .
10.3.4    Q-Learning Algorithm: A Worked Example
Owing to the importance of this formula, let’s work out a detailed
example to fully understand how Q-learning works. This will give you
a thorough understanding and appreciation of the algorithm. Rather
than describing the process in abstract terms, let’s watch Q-learning
unfold step-by-step in a simple grid world.
Consider the small 2×4 grid shown in Figure 10.3. Look at the first
pane that shows the Start position. Our agent is standing in the top-
left position and needs to navigate from a starting position to a goal.
Like a mouse in a maze, our agent must discover which path leads to

--- Strana 826 ---
reward and which leads to punishment through trial and error. As it
experiences the consequences of its actions, it gradually builds a
map of value—not unlike how we learn to navigate unfamiliar
neighborhoods by remembering which streets lead where. Our grid
world has some special properties:
The agent can move in four directions: Up, Down, Left, and Right.
These are our actions.
Each position in the grid is a state, represented by coordinates
S(row, column).
Some states have special properties—a reward state at S(0,3)
gives +10 points when exited, while a penalty state at S(1,2) takes
away 10 points when exited, that is, has a reward of -10.
The agent learns through episodes, which are complete journeys
through the environment.
For simplicity, we use a learning rate ( ) of 0.5 and a discount
factor ( ) of 1.

--- Strana 827 ---
In the following sections, we’ll break down what happens in each
episode of learning, tracking how the Q-values—our agent’s estimate
of action quality—evolve with experience.
Figure 10.3     Q-Learning Worked Out Example
Episode 1: The First Exploration
In our first episode, the agent moves Right, Right, Right, and then
Exits from state S(0,3). Initially, all Q-values are zero because our
agent has no prior knowledge of the environment. Keep track of the
following calculations by referring to Figure 10.3 as we proceed.
When the agent exits from state S(0,3), it receives a reward of +10.
Now, it needs to update its Q-value for taking the Exit action from
state S(0,3). Using the Q-learning formula:

--- Strana 828 ---
With our values plugged in for the action X (for exit):
Note that the previous Q-value we have for this state was 0 and the
reward we got was 10. Because the episode ends after this action,
we don’t expect any future rewards. So, this first experience teaches
our agent that exiting from (0,3) is quite rewarding. The Q-value of 5
reflects the agent’s estimate of this action’s value, tempered by the
learning rate—it’s cautiously optimistic after just one sample.
Episode 2: Reinforcing the Path
In the second episode, our agent takes the same path: Right, Right,
Right, Exit. This time, when calculating the new Q-value for exiting
from S(0,3), it uses its previous estimate:
Notice how the Q-value increased from 5 to 7.5. With each positive
experience, the agent becomes more confident in the value of this
action.
But something else important happens in this episode. When the
agent moves Right from state S(0,2) to S(0,3), it can now update the Q-
value of this action based on the known value of the next state:

--- Strana 829 ---
This is the essence of how value information flows backward through
the agent’s experiences. The agent now (during Episode 2) knows
that moving Right from S(0,2) is somewhat valuable because it leads
to a state S(0,3) that has a valuable exit action. It’s like learning that a
particular street leads to your favorite restaurant—the street itself
becomes valuable by association.
Episode 3: Values Propagate Backward
In the third episode, with the same sequence of actions, our values
continue to improve:
The exit action’s value has increased again, approaching the true
reward of 10 as the agent gains more experience. However, the
agent also updates the value of moving Right from S(0,1) to S(0,2):
And, it updates the value of moving Right from S(0,2) to S(0,3):
The value information is propagating backward through the chain of
actions, like ripples moving upstream. This is helping us gain
information about useful actions—even those that don’t receive an
immediate reward! Each state on the path to reward becomes more
valuable as the agent recognizes its role in reaching the goal.

--- Strana 830 ---
Episode 4: A Different Path
In our fourth episode, the agent tries something different. It moves
Right, Right, Down, and Exit. This takes it to state S(1,2), the penalty
state, where exiting gives a -10 reward. The Q-value for exiting from
S(1,2) is updated:
This negative value tells the agent that exiting from S(1,2) is
something to avoid. It’s like touching a hot stove—one painful
experience teaches a valuable lesson.
But notice that the value for moving Right from S(0,1) still increases.
Let’s calculate:
This might seem counterintuitive at first. If the agent eventually ended
up in a bad state, why would the earlier action’s value increase? The
key insight is that Q-learning evaluates each action based on what
was known at the time the action was taken. When the agent moved
Right from S(0,1), it was still a good decision based on the known
value of state S(0,2). The bad outcome came from the later decision to
move Down instead of Right from S(0,2).
Crucially, when updating the Q-value for moving Right from S(0,1), the
algorithm uses the best we can do in S(0,2), which is to go Right (with
value 5). When we plan, we use this optimal value despite the fact
that we didn’t actually take the Right action later to actually receive
this possible reward. Instead, we took a suboptimal Down action at

--- Strana 831 ---
that later time. This is what makes Q-learning an off-policy algorithm
—it learns about the optimal policy regardless of the actions actually
taken. It considers what could have happened under the best
possible decision, not just what did happen. This illustrates an
important aspect of Q-learning: It evaluates actions based on their
immediate consequences and the best-known potential from the
resulting state.
Episode 5: Continued Learning
In the fifth episode, the agent repeats the path from Episode 4: Right,
Right, Down, Exit. The Q-value for exiting from S(1,2) becomes even
more negative:
As the agent accumulates more evidence about the negative
outcome of this action, its estimate of the value becomes increasingly
pessimistic. The Q-value for moving Down from S(0,2) also becomes
negative for the first time:
Now the agent has learned that moving Down from S(0,2) leads to
negative value, while moving Right leads to positive value. If it were
to make decisions based on these Q-values, it would choose Right
over Down when in state S(0,2). Meanwhile, the Q-value for moving
Right from S(0,1) continues to increase:

--- Strana 832 ---
This reinforces the idea that moving Right from S(0,1) is a good action,
despite the fact that in these recent episodes, the agent eventually
made a poor choice later in its journey. Consider this from a human
perspective. Imagine you’re driving to a new restaurant. You correctly
navigate most of the journey, but in the final moments, you make a
wrong turn into a dead end. While the overall trip was unsuccessful,
you wouldn’t throw away all the knowledge you gained—you learned
the correct route for the majority of the journey, and you learned
which specific turn to avoid next time. Q-learning encapsulates this
nuanced learning process mathematically. Each action is evaluated
based on the following:
The immediate reward it produces
The best possible future value from the resulting state at the time
the action was taken
This separation of credit allows Q-learning to build knowledge
incrementally, preserving good choices even within sequences that
contain mistakes. Rather than assigning blame uniformly across all
actions in a failed episode, Q-learning precisely identifies where
things went wrong.
[+]  Do the Calculations
We highly recommend that you actually do these calculations by
hand for a few more episodes. Doing these calculations by hand at
least once reinforces (pun intended) the understanding of the

--- Strana 833 ---
concepts allowing you to grasp later, more complicated concepts all
the more with ease.
The Emerging Policy
After these five episodes, we can see a policy emerging from the Q-
values. In state S(0,1), the agent would prefer to move Right (Q=4.06)
rather than any other direction (all Q=0). In state S(0,2), it would
strongly prefer to move Right (Q=5) rather than Down (Q=-2.5). This
is how Q-learning gradually shapes behavior—by assigning values to
actions in each state, creating a map that guides the agent toward
reward and away from punishment. With enough exploration and
learning, the Q-values converge to reflect the true expected future
rewards of each action, and the agent can exploit this knowledge to
make optimal decisions. The beauty of this approach is that the agent
doesn’t need to be told what to do—it discovers the optimal policy
through its own experiences, learning from both successes and
failures. This ability to learn through trial and error makes
reinforcement learning particularly powerful for complex problems
where the best solution isn’t immediately obvious.
What makes Q-tables particularly appealing is their interpretability.
Unlike more complex approaches, we can directly examine the
values in a Q-table to understand what our agent has learned. If the
Q-value for moving left in a particular state is much higher than other
actions, it’s clear that the agent has learned that going left is
advantageous in that situation.

--- Strana 834 ---
Q-tables also highlight the exploration-exploitation dilemma we
discussed earlier. When deciding which action to take, our agent has
two competing objectives:
Exploit its current knowledge by selecting the action with the
highest Q-value
Explore actions with uncertain values to potentially discover better
strategies
Balancing these objectives is crucial for effective learning. Common
approaches include -greedy (choosing the best action most of the
time, but occasionally selecting a random action) and Boltzmann
exploration (selecting actions with probability proportional to their
estimated values). Let’s discuss the simplest of these next.
[»]  Try Out the Interactive Demo
You can try all the -greedy and the rest of the Q-learning algorithm
interactively by visiting the 10-01-q-learning-demo on the book
resources page at https://recluze.net/keras-book. In the interactive
demo, click Visualize Policy. Then, click on Start Learning to see
how the agent learns Q-values by gaining experience. You can also
modify the code to change reward locations, grid size, and so on to
get a better understanding of the algorithm.

--- Strana 835 ---
10.3.5    Q-Learning and Associated Issues
Now that we’ve explored the concept of Q-tables—those treasure
maps of value that guide our agent through an environment—and
looked at a worked example, this section will bring the discussion of
Q-learning to a close by summarizing the steps required for the
algorithm. If Q-tables are the map, Q-learning is the process that
creates that map, marking each path with increasingly accurate
estimates of its true value. Picture a vast, complex forest you’ve
never visited before. At first, every path looks the same—you have no
idea which trails lead to breathtaking vistas and which end in thorny
thickets. But with each hike, you learn. The path that led to a waterfall
yesterday gets a mental bookmark as highly rewarding. The one that
circled back after an exhausting climb earns a mental note of “avoid
next time.” While learning as discussed previously, you adjust your
belief by a fraction of new information, controlled by the learning rate
. If  is small (e.g., 0.1), you’re a cautious learner who doesn’t
drastically change opinions based on a single experience. If  is large
(e.g., 0.9), you’re more impressionable, giving recent experiences
substantial weight in your decisions.
The Interplay Between Exploration and Exploitation
A crucial element of Q-learning is balancing curiosity with wisdom—
or, in technical terms, exploration with exploitation. If our agent
always follows what it currently believes is best (exploitation), it might
never discover better strategies that lie off its beaten path. But if it’s

--- Strana 836 ---
always trying random new things (exploration), it never benefits from
its accumulated knowledge.
This dilemma is solved with the -greedy selection approach
mentioned earlier. With probability , our agent chooses a random
action (exploration), and with probability 1- , it chooses what it
currently believes is best (exploitation). Think of it like a chef who has
a signature dish but occasionally experiments with new ingredients.
Too much experimentation, and the restaurant loses its identity; too
little, and the menu grows stale. The best chefs—like the best
learning algorithms—find the sweet spot between tradition and
innovation. As learning progresses, we typically reduce  —starting
with lots of exploration (maybe  = 1.0) and gradually shifting toward
exploitation (eventually reaching something like  = 0.1). It’s similar to
how children play freely and explore widely, but adults tend to focus
more on what they know works well.
The Q-Learning Algorithm: Step-by-Step
Let’s walk through the Q-learning process as a series of steps our
agent follows:
1. Initialize with optimism.
We start by filling our Q-table with zeros or even small positive
values, embodying the optimistic spirit of “all paths might lead to
treasure until proven otherwise.”
2. Choose a starting state.
Our agent begins somewhere in the environment—perhaps

--- Strana 837 ---
randomly selected or from a fixed starting position. Sometimes,
this is in our control, and sometimes we must make do with what
is given to us.
3. Select an action.
Using our -greedy approach, the agent decides whether to
follow its current best understanding or try something new.
4. Take action and observe.
The agent performs its chosen action and then watches what
happens—what immediate reward it receives and what new state
it finds itself in.
5. Update knowledge.
Using our Q-learning formula, the agent adjusts its assessment
of the value of the action it just took.
6. Repeat until learning is complete.
The agent continues this cycle—act, observe, update, act again
—until it has learned an effective strategy or reached some
predetermined stopping point.
This cycle mirrors how humans learn many skills—through practice,
feedback, adjustment, and more practice. The only difference is that
our digital agent can often complete thousands of these learning
cycles in the time it takes us to explore a new room in a building.
One of the most remarkable aspects of Q-learning is how order
emerges from chaos. When the algorithm begins, the Q-table is
essentially random noise—meaningless numbers that provide no
guidance. But as learning progresses, patterns begin to emerge.

--- Strana 838 ---
Mathematically, we can prove that under certain conditions (e.g.,
visiting all state-action pairs infinitely often), Q-learning will converge
to the optimal policy. In practical terms, this means that given enough
time and experience, our agent will discover the best possible way to
navigate its environment.
10.3.6    The Limits of Tabular Q-Learning
While Q-learning is powerful, it faces challenges when environments
become very large or complex. The tabular approach—literally storing
a value for each state-action pair in a table—breaks down when the
number of states explodes. Consider a simple game of tic-tac-toe
with approximately 5,000 possible board states. A Q-table for this
game is entirely manageable. Now consider chess, with around 1043
possible positions—more than the number of atoms in the observable
universe! A literal table with that many entries would be physically
impossible to store.
This limitation points toward the need for function approximation—
using functions (e.g., neural networks) to estimate Q-values rather
than storing them individually. This approach, which we’ll explore in
the following section, allows Q-learning to scale to complex problems
that would otherwise be intractable.
Deep Q-Networks Architecture
We’ve seen how Q-learning allows our agent to navigate
environments and discover optimal strategies through trial and error.

--- Strana 839 ---
But we’ve also encountered its greatest limitation: the Q-table
approach simply can’t scale to complex environments with vast state
spaces. Picture trying to create a table with a row for every possible
configuration in a modern video game—the numbers quickly become
astronomical. This is the problem DQNs solve; that is, bringing
together the wisdom of Q-learning with the pattern-recognition power
of neural networks. Traditional Q-learning stores a specific value for
each state-action pair in a table. DQNs take a fundamentally different
approach—instead of a lookup table, they use a neural network to
approximate the Q-function itself. Think of it as the difference
between memorizing every possible chess position versus
understanding the principles and finding patterns in different board
positions that make certain moves better than others.
The neural network takes the current state as input and outputs
predicted Q-values for each possible action. Mathematically, we can
express this as
where  represents the weights of our neural network, and 
 is
the true optimal Q-value we’re trying to approximate. The network
becomes our Q-table, but instead of storing values explicitly, it learns
patterns that generate those values on demand. This approach is
similar to how your brain works. You don’t memorize the exact weight
of every object you’ve ever held—instead, you’ve developed an
intuitive sense of how heavy things might be based on their
appearance. Your neural pathways have learned to approximate
weight based on visual cues such as size, material, and density.

--- Strana 840 ---
A typical DQN architecture, like any other deep neural network, has
several key components that work together:
Input layer
This layer receives the current state representation. For a simple
grid world, this might be coordinates. It might even be the collective
structure that holds the position of the agent, rewards, and areas to
avoid. For Atari games, for example, it could be pixels from the
screen.
Hidden layers
These intermediate layers extract meaningful patterns from the
input. They’re like the analytical regions of your brain that process
raw sensory data into understanding. These aren’t much different
in the reinforcement learning algorithm than what we’ve been
looking at in this book. You can use all your knowledge to
strengthen this part of the DQN.
Output layer
This final layer produces Q-values for each possible action. For
example, if our agent can move in four directions, the output layer
would have four neurons, each predicting the value of one action.
The real innovation in DQNs comes from how these layers are
structured and trained. Modern DQNs often use convolutional layers
when processing visual inputs (e.g., game screens), similar to how
your visual cortex processes what you see in hierarchical stages—
first detecting edges, then shapes, then objects, and finally meaning.

--- Strana 841 ---
Teaching a Deep Q-Network: The Learning Process
The core idea behind learning in a DQN remains similar to Q-learning
but with important adaptations for neural networks. The standard Q-
learning update rule becomes a neural network training process
where we minimize the difference between our current predictions
and target values. The loss function typically looks like
where  represents our current network weights and 
 represents
weights from a target network (more on this shortly). This equation
may look intimidating, but it’s essentially saying: Adjust the network
weights to make our Q-value predictions closer to what we observe
plus what we expect in the future. As is the case with neural
networks, initially your predictions might be way off, but with each
observed weather pattern and outcome, you adjust your mental
model to make better forecasts. The network does the same thing—
with each experience, it adjusts its weights to better predict the value
of actions.
Stability Tricks: Taming the Learning Beast
Early attempts to combine neural networks with Q-learning faced a
significant challenge: instability. The learning process would often
oscillate wildly or diverge entirely. Researchers at DeepMind
discovered several crucial techniques to stabilize training:

--- Strana 842 ---
Experience replay
Instead of learning from experiences as they happen, DQNs store
experiences in a replay buffer and train on random batches from
this memory. It’s like a student reviewing notes from past classes in
random order, which helps prevent forgetting earlier lessons and
breaks harmful correlations between consecutive experiences.
While the mathematics of this concept are complicated, the take
away from these is that you store previous input-output pairs in a
buffer and feed them to the neural network with newer
experiences. This way, you’re “replaying” your past experience—
hence the name of the technique. This helps smooth out
oscillations in learning and makes DQN operate much faster.
Experience replay is a staple of modern machine learning despite
its simplicity.
Target network
DQNs actually use two networks—one that’s actively being
updated (the online network) and another that’s updated less
frequently (the target network). When calculating target values, the
target network is used. This is like having a textbook that you only
replace with a new edition occasionally rather than rewriting it
every day. It provides a stable reference point during learning.
Reward clipping
To handle varying scales of rewards across different environments,
rewards are often clipped to a standard range (e.g., [-1, 1]). This is
similar to how we normalize all inputs to our neural networks—it
just helps with stability.

--- Strana 843 ---
Frame skipping
In environments such as video games, DQNs often don’t process
every frame, instead skipping some to reduce computational load
and help the agent focus on meaningful changes.
Together, these innovations allow DQNs to learn stably and efficiently
in complex environments that would be impossible to handle with
traditional Q-tables given very large and complex inputs.
The Input Challenge: Representing the World
This brings us to one of the most significant aspects of DQN design—
deciding how to represent the state. For simple environments, this
might be straightforward—coordinates in a grid world or specific
features in a control problem. But for rich environments such as
games or robotics, we need more sophisticated approaches. For
instance, when DeepMind’s DQN learned to play Atari games, it
received raw pixels as input. But rather than a single frame, it used a
stack of several consecutive frames. This allowed the network to infer
movement and direction—crucial information that’s not available from
a static image alone. The state representation often requires
preprocessing to make learning more efficient. For visual inputs, this
might include grayscale conversion, resizing, or normalization. These
steps help emphasize the important information immensely.

--- Strana 844 ---
Beyond the Basics: Advanced DQN Architectures
Since the original DQN breakthrough, researchers have developed
numerous improvements. Let’s go over them briefly before diving into
our first actual code example:
Double DQN
Addresses the problem of overestimating Q-values by using one
network to select actions and another to evaluate them, similar to
getting a second opinion before making an important decision.
Dueling DQN
Splits the network into two streams—one estimating the overall
value of a state and another estimating the advantage of each
action relative to others. It’s like separately considering the
following: “How good is the situation overall?” and “Which action is
best in this situation?”
Prioritized experience replay
Instead of sampling experiences randomly, this method prioritizes
experiences that led to surprising outcomes, similar to how you
might focus more on studying topics where you previously made
mistakes.
Distributional DQN
Rather than predicting a single value for each action, this approach
predicts an entire distribution of possible returns, acknowledging
the uncertainty inherent in reinforcement learning. It’s forecasting
not just the expected temperature but the full range of possible
temperatures and their likelihoods.

--- Strana 845 ---
Each of these improvements addresses specific limitations of the
original architecture, gradually building a more robust approach to
deep reinforcement learning. DQNs represent a crucial bridge
between classical reinforcement learning methods and modern deep
reinforcement learning. Their success in mastering Atari games from
raw pixels—learning directly from the same inputs a human would
see—demonstrated that reinforcement learning could scale to
complex, high-dimensional problems.
The architectural insights from DQNs continue to influence newer
approaches, even as the field has expanded beyond value-based
methods to include policy gradient techniques and model-based
methods. The core idea—approximating value functions with neural
networks—remains a foundational concept in modern reinforcement
learning. Implementing this basic algorithm through low-level code
will give us a deep understanding of the concept that we can use to
build further on with the latest and greatest models.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 846 ---
10.4    Implementing Reinforcement Learning
Models in Keras
After reviewing the theoretical foundations of reinforcement learning
algorithms, we can now apply these concepts in practice, as we’ll
discuss in this section. The first step in this process is to set up
appropriate environments where our agents can learn and thrive.
Think of these environments as elaborate playgrounds designed
specifically for AI agents to explore, experiment, and evolve their
strategies. For many years, OpenAI Gym (aka Gym) stood as the
cornerstone framework for reinforcement learning environments.
Launched in 2016, it revolutionized how researchers and developers
approached reinforcement learning by providing a standardized
interface for a diverse collection of environments. This
standardization was crucial—before Gym, researchers often had to
rebuild environments from scratch for each new project, making it
difficult to compare results across different studies. Gym changed all
that by offering a simple, consistent API that worked across dozens
of different learning scenarios.
However, as with many pioneering tools, Gym eventually faced
maintenance challenges. The reinforcement learning community
needed a more actively maintained alternative, which is where
Gymnasium came in. Gymnasium began as a fork of the original
Gym and has since become the recommended standard for

--- Strana 847 ---
reinforcement learning environments. For our implementations, we’ll
be using Gymnasium version 1.1, though any recent version should
work with minimal adjustments. What makes Gymnasium particularly
valuable is its wide array of prebuilt environments. These range from
simple grid worlds to complex physics simulations and even video
game environments. Some of the environment categories include the
following:
Classic control problems, such as CartPole and Pendulum
Grid-based environments, such as FrozenLake and CliffWalking
Atari games, including Breakout, Pong, and Space Invaders
Box2D physics simulations, such as LunarLander and
BipedalWalker
MuJoCo environments for more complex robotics simulations
Algorithmic tasks that test an agent’s ability to learn sequences
10.4.1    Our First Reinforcement Learning Environment
In this section, we’ll create our first reinforcement learning
environment through code. This allow you to appreciate the
complexities involved in the formulation as well as help you get a
more thorough understanding.

--- Strana 848 ---
The FrozenLake Environment
Let’s take a closer look at the FrozenLake environment, which will
serve as our starting point. FrozenLake presents a grid world
scenario that aligns closely with the theoretical grid world examples
we explored earlier. Picture a frozen lake where certain spots are
safe ice, others are dangerous holes, and one special location
represents the goal. In this 8x8 grid environment, our agent starts in
the top-left corner and must navigate to a goal in the bottom-right
corner. Moving around seems simple enough, but there’s a catch—
scattered throughout the grid are holes in the ice. If our agent falls
into one of these holes, the episode ends in failure. Adding another
layer of complexity, the standard version includes slippery ice,
meaning that when the agent attempts to move in one direction, it
might actually slide in a different direction with some probability. This
introduces an element of stochasticity that makes the environment

--- Strana 849 ---
more challenging and realistic. The visual layout of this environment
is shown in Figure 10.4. We’ll be running this in a bit.
Figure 10.4     The FrozenLake Environment
The agent can take one of four possible actions at each step:
Move left (0)
Move down (1)
Move right (2)
Move up (3)
The reward structure is straightforward but challenging:
Reaching the goal grants a reward of +1.

--- Strana 850 ---
Any other outcome (falling in a hole or time running out) gives a
reward of 0.
Every step that doesn’t end the episode also provides 0 reward.
This sparse reward system makes FrozenLake particularly
interesting. Our agent receives meaningful feedback only upon
successfully completing the task, forcing it to explore extensively and
learn from rare positive experiences. This mirrors many real-world
scenarios where immediate feedback is limited, and success signals
might be few and far between. Working with FrozenLake is
especially instructive because it connects directly to the grid world
examples we’ve already discussed. The environment’s discrete state
and action spaces make it an ideal candidate for tabular methods
such as Q-learning, allowing us to see these algorithms in action
without immediately jumping to the complexity of neural network
approximations.
[»]  Explore Other Environments
Once you’re comfortable with FrozenLake, you can explore the
other environments available on the Gymnasium website at
https://gymnasium.farama.org/. The code for Q-learning will
remain mostly the same with minor changes to actions and state
representations.
Our implementation approach will follow two main phases. First, we’ll
set up the environment, exploring how to create instances,

--- Strana 851 ---
understand the observation and action spaces, and interact with the
environment through a simple loop. Then, we’ll implement and train
a Q-learning agent that learns optimal policies for navigating this icy
terrain. The Gymnasium API makes this setup process remarkably
straightforward. With just a few lines of code, we can create an
environment, extract its key properties, and begin the interaction
loop that forms the backbone of reinforcement learning. The real
power emerges when we combine the flexibility of Gymnasium’s
environments with the expressiveness of Keras models. This
partnership allows us to tackle increasingly complex problems, from
grid worlds to Atari games and beyond, all while using a consistent
framework that makes experimentation and improvement more
accessible than ever before. But let’s start with the first step.
Setting Up the Environment
Let’s get our hands dirty with some actual code. Before we dive into
implementation, you’ll need to set up your environment properly.
Let’s walk through the installation process and then explore our first
code sample for the FrozenLake environment. For the first couple of
steps of this section, you’ll need to have a local installation. We’ll
explain why in just a minute.
Open your terminal and run
pip install gymnasium  
For the FrozenLake environment specifically, the base Gymnasium
package should suffice. However, if you plan to explore other

--- Strana 852 ---
environment types later (e.g., Atari games), you might need
additional packages:
pip install "gymnasium[atari]"
pip install "gymnasium[accept-rom-license]"  
One quick thing to note about running environments with visual
rendering is that when we set render_mode='human' in our code,
Gymnasium will open a window to display the environment visually—
the one we saw in Figure 10.4 earlier. This works perfectly on your
local machine, giving you an intuitive view of what’s happening.
However, this rendering approach won’t function in cloud-based
notebooks such as Google Colab or Kaggle, which lack the
necessary display capabilities. Don’t worry though—this visual
rendering is primarily for our human understanding and isn’t required
for the agent to learn. Only this initial exploration requires local
execution. The rest of our implementation, including the more
advanced deep Q-Learning sections coming up, will be designed to
work perfectly well in cloud-based environments. We’ll make sure
the training loops and evaluation code function without requiring
visual rendering.
Understanding Our First Reinforcement Learning Code
Let’s examine our first piece of code for setting up and interacting
with the FrozenLake environment, as shown in Listing 10.1. Notice
that we’re importing gymnasium as gym—this naming convention
allows our code to remain compatible with older code samples that

--- Strana 853 ---
were written for the original Gym. Because Gymnasium was
designed as a drop-in replacement for Gym, this simple alias makes
the transition seamless. If you come across tutorials or examples
using the old Gym module, they should work with minimal
modifications when you have Gymnasium installed. (You can view
the full code listing in the book resources page at
https://recluze.net/keras-book under the file 10-02-frozen-lake-q.py.
Note that this isn’t a notebook but a Python file you can run locally as
discussed earlier.)
import gymnasium as gym
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import pickle
def run(episodes, is_training=True, render=False):
    env = gym.make('FrozenLake-v1', map_name="8x8", \
                    is_slippery=True, \
                    render_mode='human' if render else None)
    if(is_training):
        q = np.zeros((env.observation_space.n, \
                      env.action_space.n))
    else:
        f = open('frozen_lake8x8.pkl', 'rb')
        q = pickle.load(f)
        f.close()  
Listing 10.1     Initializing a Gymnasium Environment
The run function takes three parameters:

--- Strana 854 ---
episodes
The number of episodes to run (each episode starts fresh and
runs until the agent reaches the goal or falls in a hole).
is_training
A flag indicating whether we’re training a new agent or using a
previously trained one. This will be useful when we train an agent
in the cloud and then use the training results locally.
render
Whether to visually display the environment for humans or just
hide the environment to make the training more efficient.
Inside the function, we first create our environment using gym.make().
We’re using the 'FrozenLake-v1' environment with an 8x8 grid (the
default is 4x4), and we’re keeping the ice slippery to maintain the
stochastic nature of the environment. The render_mode parameter
controls the visual display—we’ll only enable it when the render flag
is True; otherwise, we set it to None to avoid any rendering overhead.
The rendering capability is purely for our benefit as human
observers. It helps us visualize what’s happening in the environment
—we can watch our agent navigate the icy terrain, see it slip
occasionally, and celebrate when it reaches the goal. But our
learning algorithm doesn’t need this visual representation; it works
directly with the numerical state and reward signals.
Moving on, if we’re training (is_training=True), we initialize a new Q-
table as a zero-filled NumPy array. The dimensions of this array are

--- Strana 855 ---
determined by the environment:
env.observation_space.n gives us the number of possible states
(64 for an 8x8 grid).
env.action_space.n gives us the number of possible actions (4:
left, down, right, up).
This creates a table where each row represents a state, and each
column represents an action. The values in this table will gradually
be updated as our agent learns which actions are best in each state.
If we’re not training (is_training=False), we take a different
approach. Instead of starting with a blank slate, we load a previously
trained Q-table from a pickle file. This is where the power of
persistence comes into play. After training our agent, which might
take thousands of episodes, we can save its accumulated wisdom—
the Q-table—to a file. Later, we can load this file and immediately
have an agent that knows how to navigate the frozen lake without
having to learn from scratch. The pickle module is Python’s standard
tool for serializing and deserializing Python objects. We use
pickle.load() to recreate our Q-table exactly as it was when we
saved it. This approach is particularly valuable in reinforcement
learning, where training can be time-consuming. By saving our Q-
values, we create a form of knowledge transfer, allowing our agent’s
learned expertise to persist beyond a single session.
This pattern of training once and reusing the learned policy is
common in reinforcement learning applications. In real-world
deployments, you might train your agent in a simulated environment

--- Strana 856 ---
for millions of steps, save the resulting policy or value function, and
then deploy that pretrained model in the actual application. We’ll also
use a similar strategy when we move to the cloud environment to
train our model in the next section.
Next, we set up some of our hyperparameters as well as supporting
structures as shown in Listing 10.2:
1. The learning_rate_a value of 0.9 is initially kept high, making
our agent quite responsive to new experiences. Think of it as a
student who quickly updates their understanding with each new
lesson. With this high learning rate, our agent won’t stubbornly
cling to its initial ideas but will rapidly incorporate new
information. When it discovers a hole in the ice or finds the goal,
that experience will strongly influence its future decisions.
2. Next, we have discount_factor_g also set at 0.9. This parameter
governs how much our agent values future rewards compared to
immediate payoffs. It’s like planning a road trip—do you take the
direct route that might hit traffic later or the longer scenic route
that flows smoothly? With a value of 0.9, our agent has
considerable foresight, willing to take a slightly longer path if it
leads to greater rewards down the line.
3. The epsilon parameter starts at 1, which means our agent
begins with 100% exploration. This complete openness to
experimentation ensures our agent won’t get stuck in suboptimal
patterns before it has a chance to discover better alternatives.

--- Strana 857 ---
4. But exploration can’t last forever. The epsilon_decay_rate of
0.0001 gradually shifts our agent from explorer to expert. After
each episode, epsilon decreases slightly, making the agent more
likely to exploit what it has learned rather than try something
new. This epsilon decay is similar to how we gradually rely more
on experience and less on experimentation as we become
proficient at a skill.
5. Finally, rewards_per_episode = np.zeros(episodes) creates an
array to track performance over time. This array starts filled with
zeros—a blank slate waiting to capture the agent’s learning
journey across thousands of attempts to navigate the frozen
lake.
learning_rate_a = 0.9  
discount_factor_g = 0.9 
epsilon = 1         
epsilon_decay_rate = 0.0001    
rng = np.random.default_rng()   
rewards_per_episode = np.zeros(episodes)  
Listing 10.2     Setting Up the Initial Hyperparameters
Next, let’s dive into the actual training loop of our Q-learning agent—
the engine that powers its learning journey across the frozen lake.
This code segment in Listing 10.3 implements the core algorithm
we’ve been discussing.

--- Strana 858 ---
for i in range(episodes):
        state = env.reset()[0] # 0 = top left, 63 = bottom 
right
        terminated = False      
        truncated = False       
        while(not terminated and not truncated):
            if is_training and rng.random() < epsilon:
                action = env.action_space.sample() 
                # 0 = left, 1 = down , 2 = right, 3 = up
            else:
                action = np.argmax(q[state,:])
            new_state,reward,terminated,truncated,_ = \
                        env.step(action)
            if is_training:
                q[state,action] = q[state,action] +  \
                learning_rate_a * (
                    reward + discount_factor_g * \
                    np.max(q[new_state,:]) - q[state,action]
                )
            state = new_state
        epsilon = max(epsilon - epsilon_decay_rate, 0)
        if(epsilon==0):
            learning_rate_a = 0.0001
        if reward == 1:
            rewards_per_episode[i] = 1

--- Strana 859 ---
    env.close()  
Listing 10.3     Core Q-Learning Algorithm
This training loop concisely translates the Q-learning algorithm we
studied earlier into working code. Let’s walk through it step-by-step:
1. The outer for loop runs for the specified number of episodes.
Each episode is a fresh attempt to navigate from start to finish.
2. We begin each episode by resetting the environment with
env.reset()[0], which returns the initial state. State 0 represents
the top-left position of the grid, while state 63 is the bottom-right
in our 8×8 lake.
3. The terminated and truncated flags track whether the episode
has ended. An episode terminates when our agent reaches the
goal or falls into a hole, while truncation would occur if we
imposed a step limit.
4. Now we enter the inner loop—the real-time decision-making
process of our agent. At each step, the agent faces the
exploration-exploitation dilemma:
If we’re in training mode and a random number is less than
epsilon, the agent explores by taking a random action with
env.action_space.sample().
Otherwise, the agent exploits its current knowledge by choosing
the action with the highest Q-value for the current state:

--- Strana 860 ---
np.argmax(q[state,:]). This selects the column (action) with the
maximum value for the current state row in our Q-table.
5. After deciding on an action, the agent takes a step in the
environment with env.step(action). This returns five values:
new_state: Where the agent ended up (might not be where it
intended if the ice is slippery)
reward: The reward received (1 if it reached the goal, 0
otherwise)
terminated: Whether the episode has ended successfully or by
falling in a hole
truncated: Whether the episode ended due to a step limit
An additional info dictionary (ignore this with the underscore)
6. Now comes the actual learning step—the Q-value update. This
is where our agent refines its understanding of the world based
on experience. Match this update rule with the mathematical
equation discussed earlier. This update captures the essence of
Q-learning, mirrors the Bellman equation precisely, and
elegantly captures how we learn from experience. If the outcome
was better than expected (positive error), we increase our
estimate of that action’s value. If worse than expected (negative
error), we decrease it. The learning rate controls how
dramatically we update our beliefs with each experience.

--- Strana 861 ---
7. After the update, we move to the new state with state =
new_state and continue the process until the episode ends.
Once an episode concludes, we reduce epsilon by the decay
rate, gradually shifting from exploration to exploitation. There’s
an interesting detail here: When epsilon reaches 0, we
dramatically reduce the learning rate to 0.0001. This is like
shifting from a student actively learning to an expert making only
minor refinements to their knowledge. The loop continues for all
episodes, and then we close the environment with env.close().
This implementation follows the classic Q-learning algorithm almost
exactly as we studied it, translating the mathematical formulation into
working code. The beauty of reinforcement learning is seeing how
these relatively simple update rules can lead to sophisticated
behavior emerging over time, as our agent gradually learns to
navigate the treacherous frozen lake with increasing confidence and
skill.
The code segment shown in Listing 10.4 wraps up our training
process with two key operations. This start of the code handles
visualization while the last three lines save our agent’s accumulated
wisdom to a file. This preservation step transforms our agent into a
reusable expert, ready to guide travelers across the ice whenever
called upon.
sum_rewards = np.zeros(episodes)
    for t in range(episodes):
        sum_rewards[t] = np.sum(rewards_per_episode[ \
                                max(0, t-100):(t+1)])

--- Strana 862 ---
    plt.plot(sum_rewards)
    plt.savefig('frozen_lake8x8.png')
    if is_training:
        f = open("frozen_lake8x8.pkl","wb")
        pickle.dump(q, f)
        f.close()  
Listing 10.4     Saving the Learned Q-Values
10.4.2    Implementing the Deep Q-Network Algorithm
with Keras
Now that we’ve implemented a traditional Q-learning approach with a
table-based solution, let’s take our agent to the next level. While our
tabular method works well for the discrete, manageable state space
of FrozenLake, many real-world problems involve much larger or
even continuous state spaces where tables would be impractical.
This is where neural networks shine—they can approximate Q-
values for any state, even ones they’ve never explicitly seen before.
We’re going to upgrade our agent with the DQN algorithm, which
replaces our Q-table with a neural network. Rather than storing and
updating individual Q-values in a table, we’ll train a network to
predict these values. The core learning principles remain the same,
but the way we represent and update our knowledge changes
dramatically.
We can return to the cloud-based environment for this more
compute-intensive case study. For the full code listing, you can refer

--- Strana 863 ---
to the notebook 10-03-frozen-lake-dqn on the book resources page
at https://recluze.net/keras-book. Here, we’ll touch on the more
important parts of this code.
After importing the necessary Keras libraries, we can build our
neural network architecture. Let’s discuss the code given in
Listing 10.5 that makes this transformation possible. First, we define
a one_hot function that transforms our discrete state numbers into a
form the neural network can digest. In our FrozenLake environment,
states are represented as simple integers (0 through 63 for the 8×8
grid). Neural networks, however, work better with distributed
representations. The one-hot encoding transforms state 5, for
example, into a vector of 64 zeros with a single 1 at position 5.
Next is our model-building function. This seemingly simple function is
where the magic happens—we’re replacing our entire Q-table with a
neural network. The architecture we’ve chosen is straightforward, but
you can experiment with more complex models after successfully
conducting learning experiments with this simple model. The beauty
of Keras is that we don’t really need to write down a description of
the model here. You can understand the decisions made simply by
looking at the code itself.
# One-hot encoding function for discrete states
def one_hot(state, state_size):
    vec = np.zeros(state_size)
    vec[state] = 1
    return vec
# Build the DQN model using keras.Sequential (no class)

--- Strana 864 ---
def build_model(state_size, action_size):
    model = keras.Sequential([
        layers.Input(shape=(state_size,)),
        layers.Dense(64, activation='relu'),
        layers.Dense(64, activation='relu'),
        layers.Dense(action_size, activation='linear')
    ])
    return model
# Initialize environment and models
env = gym.make('FrozenLake-v1', map_name="8x8", 
                      is_slippery=True, render_mode=None)
state_size = env.observation_space.n
action_size = env.action_space.n
model = build_model(state_size, action_size)
target_model = build_model(state_size, action_size)
model.build(input_shape=(None, state_size))
target_model.build(input_shape=(None, state_size))  
Listing 10.5     DQN Model Through Keras
This network structure is quite modest compared to what you might
see in image recognition or language processing, but it’s perfectly
suited for our task. Each of the 64 neurons in our hidden layers
represents patterns the network discovers during training. Think of
these neurons as specialized detectors that learn to recognize
meaningful state configurations and their implications for different
actions. The Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU) activation functions serve
as the neurons’ decision mechanisms. The linear activation in the

--- Strana 865 ---
final layer allows the network to output Q-values across any numeric
range, just like our Q-table could.
At the end of the function, we initialize our environment and create
two identical models: the model and target_model. This dual-model
approach is a key innovation of the DQN algorithm. The primary
model learns continuously, while the target model provides stable Q-
value estimates for our learning updates.
We specify the input shape for both models using model.build(),
which prepares them to process our state inputs. Notice we use None
for the batch dimension, allowing our models to process any number
of states at once—a flexibility that will prove useful during training.
This code is just one possible implementation, kept deliberately
simple for clarity. For more complex problems, we might leverage the
Keras Functional API to create more sophisticated architectures with
multiple input streams or specialized network branches. But the
principles would remain the same—we’re using neural networks to
approximate the Q-function that maps states and actions to expected
rewards. The power of this approach is that once trained, our neural
network can generalize—making educated guesses about states it’s
never explicitly seen before. This ability to generalize from
experience is what makes deep reinforcement learning so powerful
for complex, real-world problems.
We then go ahead and set the model parameters as shown in
Listing 10.6. These are pretty self-explanatory as long as you keep
our earlier mathematical formulation in mind.

--- Strana 866 ---
# Initialize training hyperparameters
optimizer = keras.optimizers.Adam(learning_rate=0.001)
loss_fn = keras.losses.MeanSquaredError()
replay_buffer = deque(maxlen=2000)
gamma = 0.95
epsilon = 1.0
epsilon_min = 0.01
epsilon_decay = 0.995
batch_size = 64
update_target_freq = 10
episodes = 1000
rewards_per_episode = np.zeros(episodes)  
Listing 10.6     Setting Model Hyperparameters
Let’s examine the training mechanism that powers our agent’s
learning, as shown in Listing 10.7. This function is the engine that
drives our agent’s learning process. Think of it as a teacher who
reviews a collection of experiences, extracts the lessons they
contain, and then adjusts the student’s understanding accordingly.
The function begins by sampling a random batch of experiences
from our replay buffer. This randomization breaks the sequential
correlation between experiences, which is crucial for stable learning.
It’s like studying historical events out of chronological order to better
understand the patterns that connect them rather than getting caught
up in the flow of history.
# Define a helper function for training on a single batch
def train_step(model, target_model, replay_buffer, batch_size,

--- Strana 867 ---
               gamma, optimizer, loss_fn):
    minibatch = random.sample(replay_buffer, batch_size)
    state_batch = np.array([x[0] for x in minibatch])
    action_batch = np.array([x[1] for x in minibatch])
    reward_batch = np.array([x[2] for x in minibatch])
    next_state_batch = np.array([x[3] for x in minibatch])
    done_batch = np.array([x[4] for x in minibatch])
    future_qs = target_model(tf.convert_to_tensor(
          next_state_batch, dtype=tf.float32), training=False)
    target_qs = model(tf.convert_to_tensor(state_batch,
                    dtype=tf.float32), training=False).numpy()
    for i in range(batch_size):
        if done_batch[i]:
            target_qs[i][action_batch[i]] = reward_batch[i]
        else:
            target_qs[i][action_batch[i]] = reward_batch[i] + \
                                  gamma * np.amax(future_qs[i])
    with tf.GradientTape() as tape:
        qs = model(tf.convert_to_tensor(state_batch, \
                                        dtype=tf.float32),
                   training=True)
        loss = loss_fn(target_qs, qs)
    grads = tape.gradient(loss, model.trainable_variables)
    optimizer.apply_gradients(zip(grads, \
                                  model.trainable_variables))  
Listing 10.7     Training the Neural Network

--- Strana 868 ---
Each experience in our buffer is a complete memory unit containing
five elements:
The state the agent was in
The action it took
The reward it received
The new state it found itself in
Whether the episode ended (done flag)
We extract these elements into separate arrays, preparing them for
batch processing. This batch approach is far more computationally
efficient than updating our model one experience at a time. Next
comes a two-step process that embodies the essence of Q-learning.
First, we use our target network to predict the future Q-values for all
the next states in our batch. Notice the training=False flag, which
tells the network we’re just using it for prediction, not updating its
weights.
Then, we use our main model to get the current Q-value predictions
for our starting states. These become the foundation we’ll adjust
based on what we learned from each experience. The loop that
follows is where the Bellman equation is brought to life, just as it did
in our tabular approach. Consider the following for each experience
in the batch:
If the episode ended after this step (done=True), the target Q-value
is simply the reward received. There’s no future to consider if
you’ve reached the goal or fallen in a hole.

--- Strana 869 ---
If the episode continued, we follow the familiar formula: reward
added with discounted max future Q-value. This balances
immediate rewards with long-term potential, just like in our tabular
implementation.
We wrap our prediction process in a GradientTape. This gradient tape
is a TensorFlow tool that records operations for automatic
differentiation. When we calculate the loss between our target Q-
values and the model’s current predictions, the tape allows us to
work backward through the computation to determine how each
weight in our network contributed to the error. The gradient of our
loss with respect to the model’s trainable variables tells us exactly
how to adjust each weight to reduce the error. Finally, we apply
these gradients using our optimizer, taking a small step toward better
predictions. Over thousands of such updates, our network gradually
refines its understanding of the FrozenLake environment, learning
which actions lead to success in each state.
What’s remarkable about this approach is how it preserves the core
Q-learning update rule while leveraging the power of neural networks
and batch processing. Each time we call this function, our agent gets
a little smarter, a little more skilled at navigating the treacherous
FrozenLake.
Unlike our tabular method though, which stored each state-action
value explicitly, our neural network is learning underlying patterns. It
might discover, for instance, that states closer to the goal generally
have higher values or that actions leading toward known holes

--- Strana 870 ---
should be avoided. These generalizations allow it to make educated
guesses even for state combinations it hasn’t explicitly experienced
before.
The train_step function is used in the per-episode learning code
shown in Listing 10.8. We begin each episode by resetting the
environment with env.reset()[0], placing our agent back at the
starting position. At each step, our agent faces the classic
exploration-exploitation dilemma, just as in our tabular Q-learning
implementation. If a randomly sampled number is less than epsilon,
the agent explores by taking a random action. This exploration is
crucial for discovering new strategies and avoiding getting stuck in
suboptimal patterns. Otherwise, the agent exploits its current
knowledge by querying the neural network for Q-values. This query
is where our neural network shows its power—by passing our state
vector through the network, we get back predictions for all four
possible actions in a single forward pass. The network is essentially
saying, “Based on everything I’ve learned so far, here’s how valuable
I think each action would be from this state.”
for episode in range(episodes):
    print("Episode:", episode, " / ", episodes)
    state = env.reset()[0]
    state_vec = one_hot(state, state_size)
    done = False
    total_reward = 0
    while not done:
        if np.random.rand() <= epsilon:
            action = env.action_space.sample()

--- Strana 871 ---
        else:
            q_values = model(tf.convert_to_tensor( \
                                [state_vec], \
                                dtype=tf.float32),
                             training=False)
            action = tf.argmax(q_values[0]).numpy()
        next_state, reward, terminated, truncated, _ = \
                                    env.step(action)
        done = terminated or truncated  
Listing 10.8     Per Episode Learning
Notice the training=False flag—this tells TensorFlow we’re just
using the network for prediction, not for learning at this moment. We
then extract the action with the highest predicted Q-value using
tf.argmax(q_values[0]).numpy(). The [0] is necessary because our
model expects batches of inputs, so it returns batches of outputs—
we’re just extracting the single result we need. With the action
decided, our agent takes a step in the environment. The
env.step(action) function is like rolling the dice and seeing what
happens. The environment returns five pieces of information as we
discussed in the Q-learning section previously. We combine
terminated and truncated into a single done flag that tells us whether
the current episode has ended for any reason.
The loop in this listing continues in Listing 10.9. After our agent takes
an action and observes the outcome, several crucial steps are
needed. First, we encode the new state into the one-hot vector that

--- Strana 872 ---
our neural network understands. This is to satisfy the input
requirements of our network and is just an implementation detail.
Next comes one of the most powerful innovations in deep
reinforcement learning: experience replay. With
replay_buffer.append(), we’re storing a complete memory of this
interaction—the state we were in, the action we took, the reward we
received, where we ended up, and whether the episode finished.
Think of this as our agent keeping a journal of its adventures,
recording every step and its consequences. This memory system
was revolutionary at its time of introduction. Unlike humans who
often forget details of past experiences, our agent builds a perfect
record it can revisit again and again. These memories become the
textbooks from which our agent learns, extracting patterns and
principles that guide better future decisions.
Once our memory bank has enough experiences (checked with
len(replay_buffer) >= batch_size), we trigger the learning process
through train_step(). This function, which we examined earlier,
samples a batch of memories and uses them to refine the neural
network’s understanding. It’s like our agent taking time to reflect on
past experiences, extracting lessons that improve its strategy.
The line state_vec = next_state_vec moves us forward in time—what
was once the future becomes the present as our agent continues its
journey across the ice. We also update our running total of rewards,
tracking how successful this episode has been so far. After finishing

--- Strana 873 ---
each complete episode (navigating successfully to the goal or falling
through the ice), we adjust two critical learning parameters:
First, we decay epsilon (our exploration rate) making our agent
gradually shift from curious explorer to confident expert. There’s a
lower limit (epsilon_min) to ensure our agent always maintains
some capacity for exploration, preventing it from becoming too
rigid in its behavior.
Second, we periodically update our target network with
target_model.set_weights(). This happens every
update_target_freq episodes, creating a slow-moving average of
our learning that stabilizes the training process. It’s like taking a
snapshot of our current understanding to use as a stable
reference point while we continue learning. This target network
acts as an anchor, preventing the wild oscillations that can occur
when chasing a constantly moving target.
Finally, we record the total reward earned during this episode,
building a history of our agent’s performance that we can analyze
later. This performance tracking lets us visualize learning progress
over time, revealing whether our agent is improving, plateauing, or
struggling.
# ...   continuing inside the episode for loop 
        next_state_vec = one_hot(next_state, state_size)
        replay_buffer.append((state_vec, action, reward, \
                              next_state_vec, done))

--- Strana 874 ---
        if len(replay_buffer) >= batch_size:
            train_step(model, target_model, replay_buffer, \
                       batch_size, gamma, optimizer, loss_fn)
        state_vec = next_state_vec
        total_reward += reward
    if epsilon > epsilon_min:
        epsilon *= epsilon_decay
    if episode % update_target_freq == 0:
        target_model.set_weights(model.get_weights())
    rewards_per_episode[episode] = total_reward  
Listing 10.9     Experience Replay and Target Network Update
After training our agent for 1,000 episodes, we can finally see the
fruits of its learning visualized in the heatmap shown in Figure 10.5.
This grid reveals the hidden intelligence our agent has developed—
its internal map of the FrozenLake environment and the optimal path
to navigate it safely. Looking at this visualization is peering directly
into our agent’s mind. The arrows indicate the best action the agent
believes it should take in each state, while the shades represent the
maximum Q-value for that state—essentially how valuable the agent
considers that position to be. Brighter shades indicate higher values,
while darker ones represent lower values.
The most striking feature is the bright cell in the bottom-right corner
of the grid, but interestingly, it’s not the goal state itself (the very

--- Strana 875 ---
bottom-right cell). Rather, it’s the state just before it. This reveals
something profound about how reinforcement learning agents
understand value. The second-last state has the highest value
because it represents the certainty of imminent reward—the agent is
just one step away from guaranteed success. The goal state itself
has a slightly lower value because once the agent reaches it, the
episode ends and no further rewards can be collected. This pattern
is a classic feature of Q-learning: States that lead directly to high
rewards often have higher values than the terminal reward states
themselves.
Looking at the path our agent has learned, we can see something
that might seem counterintuitive at first glance. As the agent
approaches the goal in the bottom-right corner, it consistently
chooses to move right instead of moving directly down toward the
goal. This seemingly indirect approach actually demonstrates
sophisticated learning.
The agent has discovered that due to the slippery nature of the
frozen lake, moving down carries significant risk. If it attempts to
move down, the stochastic environment might actually send it sliding
left or right—potentially into dangerous holes. Moving right, however,
limits the potential negative outcomes. Even if the agent slips, it
might move up or down, but not left into known danger zones. The
DQN has effectively learned to prioritize safety in its approach to the
goal, favoring a more reliable path even if it seems less direct to
human intuition.

--- Strana 876 ---
This risk-averse behavior emerges naturally from the agent’s
experiences. Through thousands of episodes of exploration, our
agent has learned not just where the goal is, but also which paths
minimize the risk of failure. It’s discovered that the shortest path isn’t
always the optimal one when uncertainty is involved—a
sophisticated strategy that emerged without any explicit
programming on our part. Similarly, we can observe some seemingly
random action choices in certain states, particularly in areas farther
from the goal. These inconsistencies likely reflect states that our
agent hasn’t thoroughly explored during training. Like a hiker who
hasn’t fully mapped certain regions of a wilderness, our agent’s
knowledge remains incomplete in less-visited areas. With additional
training episodes, these actions would likely become more
consistent as the agent gathers more experiences in these states.
Figure 10.5     Visualizing the Learned Policy

--- Strana 877 ---
What’s remarkable is that all of this sophisticated behavior emerged
from the relatively simple update rule of Q-learning, implemented
through our DQN architecture. The agent wasn’t explicitly
programmed to be cautious near the goal or to prefer certain paths—
it discovered these strategies through trial and error, guided by the
reward signal and the Bellman equation.
This visualization perfectly illustrates the power of reinforcement
learning: the ability to develop complex, nuanced behaviors through
experience rather than explicit programming. Our agent has learned
not just to reach the goal, but to navigate the frozen lake with a
sophisticated understanding of risk and reward that rivals human
strategic thinking.
10.4.3    Experience Replay and Target Networks: The
Foundations of Stable Deep Reinforcement Learning
Now that we’ve implemented and visualized our DQN in action, let’s
dive deeper into two crucial mechanisms we’ve seen in code that
make modern deep reinforcement learning possible: experience
replay and target networks. These innovations transformed
reinforcement learning from an unstable, brittle process into a
reliable approach for solving complex problems. Understanding
these components thoroughly will provide you with the technical
foundation to explore cutting-edge research in the field.
Before we explore the solutions, let’s understand the problem. When
we first attempted to combine neural networks with Q-learning in the

--- Strana 878 ---
early days of deep reinforcement learning, researchers encountered
a perfect storm of instabilities. The learning process would often
oscillate wildly, diverge completely, or get stuck in poor local optima.
This instability stemmed from three core issues:
Correlated experiences
In traditional Q-learning, agents learn from experiences as they
occur sequentially. When using function approximators such as
neural networks, this creates highly correlated update targets that
can cause the network to overfit to recent experiences.
Moving targets
The very network being updated is also generating the targets for
its own updates, creating a feedback loop where the target values
constantly shift.
Sparse and delayed rewards
Many environments provide rewards only occasionally, making it
difficult to connect actions with their eventual outcomes.
These challenges seemed insurmountable until the introduction of
two groundbreaking techniques: experience replay and target
networks.
Experience Replay: Breaking the Correlation Chain
Experience replay, first proposed by Lin in 1992 but popularized in
the DQN architecture by Mnih et al. in 2013, fundamentally
transforms how agents learn from experience. Instead of learning

--- Strana 879 ---
immediately from each transition, the agent stores experiences in a
replay buffer and then samples from this memory randomly during
training. This simple mechanism has profound advantages:
Breaking sequential correlations
By sampling randomly from the buffer, we demolish the temporal
correlations between experiences. It’s like shuffling a deck of
cards before dealing them—each hand becomes independent of
the previous one.
Efficient data usage
Each experience can be used multiple times for learning,
extracting maximum value from the agent’s interactions. This is
particularly valuable in environments where gathering experience
is costly or time-consuming.
Stabilizing the learning process
Random sampling smooths out the learning dynamics, preventing
the network from overfitting to recent experiences or getting stuck
in behavior loops.
The size of the replay buffer creates an interesting trade-off. A larger
buffer provides more diverse experiences but might retain outdated
information about the environment or policy. Most implementations
use buffers holding between 10,000 and 1,000,000 transitions, with
older experiences being discarded when the buffer reaches capacity.
Recent research has explored various enhancements to basic
experience replay:

--- Strana 880 ---
Prioritized Experience Replay (PER)
Instead of uniform random sampling, PER assigns higher
probabilities to experiences from which the agent can learn more
(typically measured by their temporal difference error). This
focuses learning on the most informative transitions.
Hindsight Experience Replay (HER)
In sparse reward settings, HER retroactively changes the goal of
an episode to make failed attempts instructive. It’s like saying,
“You didn’t reach your intended destination, but you did
successfully reach somewhere else—let’s learn from that.”
Episodic memory
Some approaches maintain entire episodes rather than individual
transitions, allowing the agent to learn from complete sequences
of behavior.
Target Networks: Stabilizing the Moving Target Problem
Even with experience replay smoothing out the correlation between
consecutive experiences, deep Q-learning faces another
fundamental challenge that can derail the entire learning process.
The core issue emerges from the circular dependency between the
network’s predictions and the targets used to train it. When we
calculate our temporal difference target using

--- Strana 881 ---
we’re using the same network that we’re trying to update. As the
network parameters change with each gradient step, the target
values themselves shift, creating a feedback loop that can lead to
catastrophic oscillations or complete learning failure. Consider what
happens during a typical update cycle. Our network produces a Q-
value for the current state-action pair, and then immediately uses its
own (potentially incorrect) estimates to generate the target for the
next update. Small errors compound rapidly. The system can spiral
into instability, with Q-values oscillating wildly or diverging
completely.
The solution, introduced alongside experience replay in the original
DQN paper, elegantly breaks this feedback loop through target
networks. Instead of using the same network for both prediction and
target generation, we maintain two copies of our Q-network. The
online network handles action selection and receives gradient
updates, while the target network provides stable reference points
for calculating temporal difference targets. The mathematical
formulation becomes
where 
 represents the parameters of the target network, which lag
behind the online network parameters. This separation creates the
stability we need—our targets remain consistent long enough for the
online network to learn meaningful patterns. The frequency and
method of updating the target network creates a balancing act.
Update too frequently, and we slide back toward the instability we

--- Strana 882 ---
were trying to avoid. Update too rarely, and our target network
becomes increasingly outdated, providing stale guidance that slows
learning.
The original DQN approach used hard updates every fixed number
of steps—typically, every 10,000 training steps. At each update point,
the target network parameters are completely replaced with the
current online network parameters: 
. This creates discrete
jumps in the target values, which can initially destabilize learning but
provides fresh targets for the next update cycle. A more refined
approach uses soft target updates, borrowed from the actor-critic
literature. Instead of wholesale replacement, we use exponential
moving averages as
where  (tau) is typically a small value such as 0.001. This creates
smoother transitions. The target network slowly tracks the online
network rather than making sudden jumps. The smoothness comes
at the cost of slower adaptation to improvements in the online
network.
[»]  The Actor-Critic Paradigm
Actor-critic literature refers to a class of reinforcement learning
methods that combine two key components: an actor (policy
network) that decides which actions to take, and a critic (value
network) that evaluates how good those actions are. Unlike pure
policy methods, which only learn actions, or pure value methods,

--- Strana 883 ---
which only learn state values, actor-critic methods learn both
simultaneously. The critic provides feedback to help the actor
improve its policy, while the actor’s actions generate experiences
that help the critic learn better value estimates.
The optimal update strategy depends heavily on your specific
environment and learning dynamics. Fast-changing environments
might benefit from more frequent updates to keep targets relevant.
Stable environments can use longer update intervals to maximize
the stability benefits. In practice, many successful implementations
use values between 1,000 and 10,000 steps for hard updates, or 
values between 0.0001 and 0.01 for soft updates.
When implementing target networks in real systems, several
practical considerations can make the difference between success
and failure:
Memory management
This becomes particularly important when dealing with large state
spaces. Storing raw pixel observations from Atari games can
quickly exhaust available memory. Many successful
implementations store preprocessed or compressed
representations instead of raw observations. Some systems use
frame differencing or other compression techniques to reduce
storage requirements while preserving essential information.
Initialization of your replay buffer
This significantly affects early learning dynamics. Many
implementations begin by filling the buffer with experiences from a

--- Strana 884 ---
random policy before starting any learning. This ensures sufficient
diversity from the beginning and prevents the agent from
overfitting to its initial, likely poor, experiences. A common practice
is to collect 50,000 to 100,000 random experiences before the first
training step.
Batch normalization ,
While tremendously successful in supervised learning, this
requires careful consideration in reinforcement learning contexts.
The fundamental assumption of batch normalization—that data
comes from a stationary distribution—breaks down as the policy
improves and the state distribution shifts. Layer normalization
(discussed in the previous chapter) often provides a better
alternative, normalizing across features rather than across the
batch dimension.
Choice of optimizer and learning rate
This choice also interacts with target network stability. The Adam
optimizer, with its adaptive learning rates, can sometimes
exacerbate instability issues by making large updates when
gradients are inconsistent. Some practitioners find that simpler
optimizers such as Root Mean Square Propagation (RMSprop) or
even stochastic gradient descent (SGD) with momentum provide
more stable learning. This proves particularly true in the early
stages of training.
Finally, recent developments have pushed the boundaries of what’s
possible with target networks and experience replay:

--- Strana 885 ---
Distributed architectures
Distributed architectures demonstrate how these concepts scale
to massive parallel systems. In Actor-Learner Architecture with
Experience Replay (Ape-X), multiple actor processes run in
parallel, each exploring the environment with slightly different
policies and feeding experiences into a shared replay buffer. A
separate learner process samples from this buffer and updates
the network parameters, which are then periodically distributed
back to the actors. This architecture dramatically increases the
rate of experience collection while maintaining the benefits of
experience replay and target networks.
Recurrent Experience Replay in Distributed Reinforcement
Learning (R2D2)
R2D2 extends this approach to handle partially observable
environments using recurrent neural networks. The challenge with
recurrent networks is that experience replay becomes more
complex—you can’t simply sample individual transitions because
the hidden state carries important information. R2D2 addresses
this by sampling sequences of experiences and carefully
managing the hidden states during replay.
These distributed approaches reveal an important insight: the
principles of experience replay and target networks remain
fundamental even as we scale to sophisticated architectures. The
core problems they solve—correlation between consecutive
experiences and moving target instability—persist regardless of
system complexity. Modern implementations also explore more

--- Strana 886 ---
sophisticated replay strategies. PER weights experiences by their
temporal difference error, focusing learning on the most surprising
transitions. HER, primarily used in goal-conditioned environments,
treats failed attempts as successful attempts toward different goals.
This dramatically improves sample efficiency.
The evolution from simple DQN to these advanced systems
illustrates how foundational concepts provide the stability necessary
for ambitious applications. Whether you’re training an agent to play
Atari games or controlling a robot in the real world, these
mechanisms remain essential tools for stable, efficient learning.
[+]  Exploring Further
There’s a lot more to discuss here but a more thorough discussion
of reinforcement learning will require a lot more space than can be
afforded in this introductory book. If you’re interested, you should
definitely check out the excellent book, Reinforcement Learning:
An Introduction, by Richard S. Sutton and Andrew G. Barto (2nd
ed., MIT Press, 2020). A PDF version is available for free at
http://incompleteideas.net/book/the-book-2nd.html.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 887 ---
10.5    Reinforcement Learning in Large
Language Models
In Chapter 9, we explored transformers and their revolutionary
impact on NLP, even building our own chatbot using Keras Hub. In
this section, we’ll connect those concepts with the reinforcement
learning techniques we’ve been studying throughout this chapter,
revealing how modern LLMs use these approaches to dramatically
improve their capabilities. The marriage of transformers and
reinforcement learning represents one of the most significant
advances in AI of the past decade. This fusion has given birth to
systems that not only process and generate language with
remarkable fluency but also learn to align with human preferences
and values.
10.5.1    The Fundamental Challenge: Moving Beyond
Prediction
When we first train a LLM using traditional supervised learning, we’re
essentially teaching it to predict the next token in a sequence based
on patterns it has observed in vast training datasets. This approach
yields impressive results, but it also creates fundamental limitations.
Think of a traditional language model as a student who’s extremely
good at memorizing textbooks but lacks critical thinking skills. The
model can recite facts and mimic writing styles, but it doesn’t truly

--- Strana 888 ---
understand when its outputs might be harmful, incorrect, or simply
unhelpful. It has no concept of “good” or “bad” responses—only
what’s statistically likely to follow in a text sequence.
Reinforcement learning offers a solution to this problem by
introducing the concept of a reward signal. Instead of just predicting
the next word, the model can learn to generate sequences that
maximize some notion of quality or helpfulness. This shifts the
paradigm from pure prediction to goal-directed text generation. The
breakthrough technique that transformed language models from
impressive but flawed systems into the more helpful assistants we
see today is called Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback
(RLHF). This approach, pioneered by researchers at OpenAI and
Anthropic, applies the core concepts we’ve discussed throughout
this chapter to the domain of language generation. The RLHF
process typically involves three main stages:
1. Supervised fine-tuning (SFT)
Starting with a pretrained language model (think of this as our
policy network), developers first fine-tune it on a dataset of high-
quality human demonstrations. This is analogous to the imitation
learning techniques we discussed earlier.
2. Reward model training
Human evaluators compare different model outputs, ranking
them from most to least preferred. These comparisons train a
separate reward model that can score how helpful, harmless,
and honest a given response is. This reward model is itself a

--- Strana 889 ---
neural network (often another transformer) that learns to predict
human preferences.
3. Reinforcement learning optimization|
Finally, the language model is optimized using reinforcement
learning to maximize the expected reward as assessed by the
reward model. This is conceptually similar to our Q-learning
approach but uses policy gradient methods instead.
Let’s dive deeper into this final stage, which represents the true
intersection of reinforcement learning and language models.
The Technical Machinery: Proximal Policy Optimization for
Language Models
Most modern LLMs use a variant of Proximal Policy Optimization
(PPO), a policy gradient method that builds upon the foundations
we’ve explored in this chapter. While we focused primarily on value-
based methods (e.g., Q-learning), policy gradient methods such as
PPO directly optimize the policy (in this case, the language model
itself). Concisely, the reinforcement learning problem for language
models can be framed like this:
State
The current conversation history or prompt.
Action
Generating the next token in a sequence.

--- Strana 890 ---
Reward
A score from the reward model reflecting human preferences.
Policy
The language model’s probability distribution over possible next
tokens.
This framing reveals some unique challenges. Unlike our
FrozenLake environment with its 64 states and four actions,
language models operate in an astronomically large state space (all
possible conversation histories) and action space (all possible
tokens in the vocabulary, typically 50,000+). The PPO algorithm
addresses these challenges by updating the policy in a way that
balances exploration and exploitation while preventing destructive
large policy updates. The mathematical objective looks like
where
 is the ratio between the new and old policy probabilities.
 is the advantage function (how much better an action is
compared to average).
 is a hyperparameter that controls how far the new policy can
deviate from the old one.
This clipping mechanism ensures that the model doesn’t change too
drastically during any single update, maintaining stability in the
learning process. This is similar in spirit to how our target networks

--- Strana 891 ---
stabilized Q-learning, though the implementation details differ
significantly.
One final yet crucial difference between training LLMs with
reinforcement learning and our FrozenLake example is the risk of
catastrophic forgetting. A pure reward maximization approach might
lead the model to sacrifice its general language capabilities in pursuit
of higher rewards, perhaps converging on a small set of highly
rewarded responses. To prevent this, LLM training typically
incorporates a Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence—penalty in the
reward function. We won’t go into the details of this divergence here
but suffice it to say that this penalty discourages the reinforcement-
learning-optimized model from straying too far from the original
supervised-fine-tuned model, preserving its general language
capabilities while improving alignment with human preferences. It’s
conceptually similar to the exploration-exploitation trade-off we
discussed with -greedy policies, though it uses a different
mathematical formulation.
Experience Replay in Large Language Models: A Different
Approach
While traditional DQN implementations use experience replay
buffers, as we implemented in our FrozenLake agent, LLM training
approaches this differently. Instead of storing and sampling individual
transitions, these systems typically generate multiple response
candidates for each prompt in a training batch, evaluate them with

--- Strana 892 ---
the reward model, and learn from this comparison. This approach
resembles a form of on-policy learning with immediate feedback
rather than the off-policy approach of traditional experience replay.
The computational demands of language models make storing and
sampling from vast buffers of language interactions prohibitively
expensive, necessitating this adaptation.
Constitutional AI: Adding Guardrails to Reinforcement Learning
Recent advances have introduced an approach called Constitutional
AI (CAI), which adds another layer to the RLHF process. Rather than
relying solely on direct human preferences, which can be expensive
and time-consuming to collect, CAI establishes a set of principles or
constitution that guides the model’s learning. In this approach, the
model critiques its own outputs based on these constitutional
principles, creating a form of self-supervised feedback that can be
used alongside human evaluations. This creates a more scalable
training process while maintaining alignment with human values.
Conceptually, this resembles a sophisticated reward-shaping
technique, where the reward signal is enriched with additional
structure to guide learning more efficiently. It’s similar to how we
might add intermediate rewards in a sparse reward environment
such as FrozenLake to help the agent learn more quickly.

--- Strana 893 ---
10.5.2    Challenges and Limitations
Despite its successes, applying reinforcement learning to language
models presents several unique challenges that distinguish it from
the controlled environments we’ve explored throughout this chapter.
Let’s finish our discussion by briefly touching on some of these
unique challenges in the following sections.
Reward Hacking and Specification Problems
Language models can develop sophisticated strategies to maximize
their reward function without actually achieving the intended
behavior. This occurs because designing reward functions for
language generation proves extraordinarily difficult. A reward model
trained to recognize helpful responses might reward verbose
answers that sound authoritative but contain subtle inaccuracies.
The model learns to exploit these weaknesses. Consider a language
model trained to write product reviews. If the reward function
emphasizes positive sentiment and engagement metrics, the model
might learn to write emotionally manipulative content that technically
satisfies the reward criteria while completely missing the goal of
providing honest, useful information. The challenge extends beyond
simple gaming—language models can discover reward patterns that
humans never anticipated.
This problem intensifies because language offers virtually unlimited
ways to express similar ideas. The model can find obscure
phrasings, semantic loopholes, or stylistic approaches that trigger

--- Strana 894 ---
high rewards while subverting the intended purpose. Unlike our
FrozenLake environment with its discrete, observable outcomes,
language generation exists in a vast continuous space where
unintended solutions flourish.
[ ! ]  Evidence from the Real World
The hallucinations faced by most modern large-scale models and
the often-evident sycophantic behavior of these LLMs are
evidence of this problem in real-world deployments. We must be
careful not to fall into these traps as users or engineers creating
these models.
Distributional Shift and Generalization
The distribution of inputs a language model encounters during
deployment typically differs significantly from its training distribution.
This creates a fundamental mismatch that can lead to unpredictable
behavior when the model faces novel situations. During training,
models learn from carefully curated datasets and human feedback
sessions that may not represent the full spectrum of real-world
usage. Users ask questions in unexpected ways, combine topics in
novel combinations, or probe edge cases that never appeared in
training data. The model’s learned policy, optimized for the training
distribution, may fail catastrophically on these out-of-distribution
inputs.

--- Strana 895 ---
This challenge compounds over time as deployed models influence
the very distribution of inputs they receive. Users adapt their
language patterns based on what works with the model, creating
feedback loops that can drift far from the original training conditions.
The model might perform excellently on formal, well-structured
queries while struggling with casual conversation or domain-specific
jargon it rarely encountered during training.
The Alignment Tax Phenomenon
Optimizing language models for human preferences often comes at
the cost of raw capability. This trade-off, known as the alignment tax,
creates difficult decisions about how much performance to sacrifice
for better behavior.
Models trained purely for next-token prediction can achieve
impressive performance on benchmarks and complex reasoning
tasks. When we add reinforcement learning from human feedback,
the model learns to hedge its responses, avoid controversial topics,
and prioritize safety over accuracy. These changes can reduce
performance on objective measures while improving subjective user
experience. The tension becomes particularly acute in specialized
domains. A model trained to be helpful and harmless might refuse to
engage with medical questions to avoid potential liability, even when
it could provide valuable information. The alignment process must
balance multiple competing objectives without a clear mathematical
framework for resolving conflicts between them.

--- Strana 896 ---
Evaluation Complexity and Measurement Challenges
Lastly, and more problematically, evaluating language model
performance requires nuanced judgment across multiple dimensions
that resist simple quantification. Unlike reinforcement learning
environments with clear success metrics, language generation
involves subjective criteria that vary across users, contexts, and
applications. Human evaluators often disagree about what
constitutes a good response. Factors such as helpfulness, accuracy,
tone, relevance, and safety can conflict with each other, making it
impossible to define a single objective function. Automated
evaluation metrics frequently fail to capture important aspects of
language quality, leading to misaligned optimization targets. The
evaluation challenge extends to temporal considerations. A response
that seems helpful in the short term might have negative long-term
consequences that only become apparent much later. The delayed
nature of these consequences makes it difficult to incorporate them
into training feedback loops.
10.5.3    Future Directions and Emerging Approaches
The intersection of reinforcement learning and language models
continues to evolve rapidly. Several promising research directions
address the fundamental challenges we’ve outlined. Constitutional AI
extends traditional RLHF by incorporating self-supervision
mechanisms that reduce dependence on human feedback. The
approach trains models to critique and revise their own outputs

--- Strana 897 ---
based on a set of principles or constitution that guides behavior. This
method addresses several limitations of pure RLHF. It reduces the
need for extensive human annotation, which can be expensive and
inconsistent. The model learns to internalize principles rather than
memorizing specific human preferences, potentially improving
generalization to novel situations. The constitutional approach also
provides more transparency in the training process. Rather than
learning from opaque human feedback, the model’s decision-making
process becomes more interpretable through its explicit reasoning
about constitutional principles.
Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) simplifies the RLHF pipeline
by eliminating the explicit reward model training step. Instead of first
learning a reward function and then optimizing against it, DPO
directly optimizes the language model using preference data. This
approach reduces the computational overhead and potential
instabilities associated with maintaining separate reward models. It
also eliminates the reward hacking problems that arise when models
learn to exploit weaknesses in learned reward functions. The model
learns directly from human preferences without the intermediate
translation step. DPO has shown competitive performance with
traditional RLHF while requiring significantly less computational
resources and engineering complexity. This makes advanced
alignment techniques more accessible to researchers and
organizations with limited resources.
Meanwhile, Reinforcement Learning with AI Feedback (RLAIF)
addresses the scalability limitations of human feedback by using AI

--- Strana 898 ---
systems to provide training signals. This approach can generate
feedback at much larger scales than human annotation while
maintaining consistency and reducing costs. The challenge lies in
ensuring that AI feedback systems provide high-quality signals that
align with human values. Current approaches use large, capable
models to evaluate the outputs of smaller models being trained. The
feedback quality depends critically on the alignment and capabilities
of the evaluating system. RLAIF also enables training on scenarios
that would be difficult or dangerous to evaluate with humans. Models
can receive feedback on edge cases, adversarial inputs, or sensitive
topics without exposing human evaluators to potentially harmful
content.
The concepts we’ve explored throughout this chapter—from basic
policy gradients to sophisticated experience replay mechanisms—
provide essential building blocks for understanding modern language
model training. The challenges specific to language models don’t
invalidate these fundamental principles but rather highlight their
complexity when applied to high-dimensional, open-ended domains.
The exploration-exploitation trade-offs we discussed in simple
environments become questions of how to balance creativity and
safety in language generation. The stability techniques developed for
value function learning inform approaches for training stable reward
models. The sample efficiency improvements from experience replay
inspire methods for making better use of expensive human
feedback.

--- Strana 899 ---
These connections underscore a crucial insight: advances in
reinforcement learning for language models often succeed by
adapting and combining existing techniques rather than inventing
entirely new paradigms. The field progresses through careful
engineering and empirical investigation, building on the theoretical
foundations established in simpler settings. While the challenges
remain significant, the rapid pace of development suggests that
many current limitations may prove temporary. The fundamental
framework of learning from interaction and feedback continues to
drive progress toward systems that can understand and respond to
human needs with increasing sophistication and reliability. We hope
that the concepts discussed in this book allow you to understand
these concepts at a much deeper level even as you look at the
concise Keras code that makes all of these possible.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 900 ---
10.6    Summary
In this chapter, we explored the fascinating field of reinforcement
learning, examining how machines learn to make optimal decisions
through environmental interaction. We began by investigating the
fundamental concepts that distinguish reinforcement learning from
other machine learning approaches, analyzing the relationship
between agents, environments, and the critical reward signals that
shape learning processes. The chapter presented key algorithms,
including Q-learning, policy gradients, and DQNs, demonstrating
how each addresses the challenges of sequential decision-making.
We then implemented these techniques using Keras and
Gymnasium, observing the essential balance between exploration
and exploitation that underpins effective reinforcement learning. The
chapter highlighted significant advancements such as experience
replay and target networks—technical innovations that elevated
reinforcement learning from theoretical research to a powerful
methodology capable of solving complex real-world problems.
Throughout our investigation, we connected these core concepts to
practical applications, concluding with an analysis of how
reinforcement learning powers modern LLMs through advanced
techniques such as RLHF.
By the chapter’s conclusion, you gained not only theoretical
understanding but also practical insights into the mechanics driving

--- Strana 901 ---
today’s most sophisticated AI systems, providing the foundation to
advance these technologies further and contribute to cutting-edge AI
development. What began as basic grid-world navigation has
evolved into a sophisticated framework enabling machines to master
language, games, robotics, and numerous other domains—
representing a transformative capability at the forefront of
computational intelligence.
In the next chapter, we’ll discuss how machines can learn to create
by discovering new patterns and creating artifacts from scratch.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 902 ---
11    Autoencoders and
Generative AI
In this chapter, we’ll explore generative AI models that create
new data from learned patterns, marking our transition from
discriminative models that classify inputs to generative
models that produce outputs. Along with transformers,
generative models represent one of the most important
technological foundations driving the current AI revolution,
enabling everything from artistic creation to data
augmentation. We’ll progress from autoencoders through
Variational Autoencoders to Generative Adversarial
Networks, building the foundation for understanding modern
generative AI.
In Chapter 9, we explored transformers and witnessed their
remarkable ability to understand and generate natural-sounding text.
What we encountered there represents just one facet of a much
broader and revolutionary field called generative AI (GenAI). While
traditional machine learning focuses on recognizing patterns and
making predictions about existing data, GenAI takes a fundamentally
different approach: It learns to create entirely new content that

--- Strana 903 ---
resembles what it was trained on. GenAI has become the driving
force behind most of today’s groundbreaking AI advancements.
From the chatbots that can hold natural conversations to systems
that create stunning artwork, compose music, or generate realistic
images from simple text descriptions, GenAI powers the applications
that are reshaping how we interact with technology. This creative
capability represents a shift from AI systems that simply analyze and
categorize to ones that can imagine and produce.
To understand this distinction better, consider the difference between
discriminative models and generative models. The neural networks
we’ve built so far in this book have been primarily discriminative.
They excel at drawing boundaries and making decisions: “Is this
email spam or not?” “Does this image contain a cat?” “Which digit is
shown in this handwritten number?” These models learn to
discriminate between different categories by finding the features that
separate one class from another. Generative models work in the
opposite direction. Instead of learning to distinguish between existing
examples, they learn the underlying patterns that define each
category so well that they can create new examples from scratch.
They ask “What would a new example from this category look like?”
rather than asking “What category does this belong to?” The neural
network concepts you’ve mastered—layers, weights, gradients, and
loss functions—remain the same fundamental building blocks. The
key difference lies in how we structure these components and what
we ask them to accomplish.

--- Strana 904 ---
This chapter will introduce you to three foundational approaches that
make such creativity possible. We’ll start by exploring networks that
can compress information into essential features and then
reconstruct it, learning powerful representations in the process.
These systems excel at understanding the core characteristics that
make data meaningful, whether we’re working with images, sounds,
or other complex information.
Next, we’ll examine how adding probability and uncertainty to these
compression networks opens up entirely new possibilities. Instead of
simply recreating what they’ve seen, these enhanced systems can
generate variations and entirely new examples by sampling from
what they’ve learned. This probabilistic approach bridges the gap
between understanding existing data and creating something
genuinely new.
Finally, we’ll explore a completely different strategy based on the
simple concept of competition. Consider two networks locked in an
ongoing contest: one trying to create convincing fake data while the
other attempts to detect forgeries. This adversarial relationship
drives both networks to improve continuously, ultimately producing a
generator capable of creating remarkably realistic content.
All of these approaches offer unique strengths and applications, from
data compression and anomaly detection to creative content
generation and data augmentation. Together, they form the
foundation for understanding how machines can move beyond
recognition to creation. The concepts we cover here serve as

--- Strana 905 ---
essential preparation for our next chapter, where we’ll examine the
cutting-edge techniques that represent the future of GenAI. These
emerging approaches promise to deliver even more sophisticated
and controllable generation capabilities, building directly on the
fundamental principles we’ll establish in the coming pages.
Understanding these foundational methods will provide you with the
conceptual framework needed to grasp the next generation of AI
systems that are already beginning to transform industries and
creative fields worldwide. Let’s start by exploring the most
fundamental approach: learning to compress and reconstruct data in
ways that reveal its essential structure.
11.1    Introduction to Autoencoders
Picture yourself trying to summarize a long, complex story into just a
few key bullet points. You’d carefully identify the most essential plot
elements, character developments, and turning points while leaving
out unnecessary details. Yet these condensed points need to contain
enough information that someone could reconstruct the full narrative,
complete with its emotional arc and important nuances. This process
of thoughtful compression and reconstruction captures the essence
of what autoencoders do with data.
In this section, we’ll first describe the rationale behind the
reconstruction and then dive deeper into the implementation details
ending with an implementation that brings everything together.

--- Strana 906 ---
[»]  The History of GenAI
GenAI has a surprisingly long history, with early models dating
back decades. However, these systems took a back seat when
discriminative models began showing remarkable success after
2012, particularly in image recognition and classification tasks.
The focus shifted heavily toward supervised learning approaches
that could accurately identify and categorize data. Yet generative
models have returned with unprecedented power in recent years,
driving today’s most significant AI breakthroughs. From large
language models (LLMs) that can write and reason to diffusion
models creating stunning artwork, GenAI has reclaimed its
position at the forefront of AI research and applications. A deep
understanding of discriminative models such as what we’ve gained
in the previous chapters translates directly to generative models
as though.
A deep understanding of discriminative models translates directly
to generative models. The neural network architectures, gradient
descent optimization, and loss function concepts all carry over
seamlessly. The mathematical foundations remain identical,
making discriminative mastery a solid launching pad for
understanding generative systems.

--- Strana 907 ---
11.1.1    What Are Autoencoders?
An autoencoder is a special type of neural network designed around
a deceptively simple goal: Learn to recreate its input as accurately
as possible. At first glance, this might seem pointless. Why would we
want a network that simply spits back what we feed it? The answer
lies not in the final output but in how the network accomplishes this
seemingly trivial task.
The autoencoder’s architecture follows a distinctive hourglass shape
shown in Figure 11.1. This architecture consists of two main
components working in tandem. The first half called the encoder,
takes your input data and progressively compresses it down to a
much smaller representation. The second half, the decoder, takes
this compressed version and attempts to expand it back into the
original form. Between these two components sits a narrow
bottleneck layer—the most compressed representation of your data.
The autoencoder’s bottleneck forces the network to identify the most
crucial features needed to reconstruct the original data. The network
can’t simply memorize everything; it must learn what truly matters.
The network learns through the same gradient descent process
we’ve explored throughout this book. During training, it compares its
reconstructed output with the original input, calculates the difference
(our familiar loss function), and adjusts its weights to improve the
reconstruction. Over thousands of iterations, the network should, in

--- Strana 908 ---
theory, become increasingly skilled at capturing the essential
characteristics that define the input data.
Figure 11.1     Typical Architecture of an Autoencoder
The Bottleneck Principle and Dimensionality Reduction
The bottleneck layer represents the heart of the autoencoder’s
learning process. Recall how we used Principal Component Analysis
(PCA) to visualize word embeddings in our earlier explorations of
word embeddings in Chapter 9, Section 9.1.3. We took high-
dimensional word representations and projected them onto a 2D
plane so we could see relationships between words. The
autoencoder’s bottleneck accomplishes something similar but far
more sophisticated. While PCA finds linear relationships and projects
data along axes of maximum variance, autoencoders can discover
complex, nonlinear patterns. Consider trying to capture the essence
of a photograph. PCA might identify that certain color combinations

--- Strana 909 ---
or brightness levels occur frequently, but an autoencoder can learn
more nuanced concepts: the curve of a smile, the way shadows fall
on a building, or the relationship between different objects in a
scene.
The size of this bottleneck layer determines how much compression
occurs. A bottleneck with just a few neurons forces aggressive
compression, potentially losing important details but revealing only
the most fundamental patterns. A larger bottleneck preserves more
information but might not push the network to discover the most
essential features. This balance between compression and
information preservation becomes a crucial design decision.
Consider an autoencoder trained on human faces. A heavily
compressed bottleneck might learn to encode fundamental facial
structure: the relative positions of eyes, nose, and mouth. A less
compressed version might additionally capture subtleties such as
expression, lighting, or specific facial features. Both have value, but
they serve different purposes depending on what we want to
accomplish.
The dimensionality reduction achieved through this process often
reveals hidden structure in data that wasn’t apparent in its original
form. A dataset that appears random or chaotic in its native
dimensions might reveal clear patterns when compressed through
an autoencoder’s learned representation. This compressed space,
often called the latent space, becomes a new lens through which we
can understand our data.

--- Strana 910 ---
[+]  Demystifying “Latent”: A Key Term You’ll See Everywhere
The word latent appears frequently throughout machine learning
literature and can seem mysteriously complex. Understanding it
well helps you navigate many different concepts with confidence.
Latent simply means “hidden”—in machine learning terms, it refers
to a vector or matrix containing values whose specific meanings
aren’t immediately clear to us. We know these values are
important for the model’s function, but we can’t point to any single
value and say exactly what real-world feature it represents.
Why Autoencoders Learn Meaningful Representations
The question of why autoencoders learn meaningful representations
rather than simply memorizing the training data lies at the
intersection of information theory and practical constraints. When a
network has limited capacity in its bottleneck layer, it faces a
fundamental choice: It can either try to memorize specific examples,
which would lead to poor performance on new data, or learn general
patterns that apply broadly across the dataset. The training process
naturally favors generalization. Because the network sees many
examples during training and must reconstruct all of them through
the same compressed representation, it’s forced to find
commonalities rather than focusing on individual peculiarities. A
network trained on photographs of cars, for instance, can’t afford to
memorize the exact pixel values of each image. Instead, it must

--- Strana 911 ---
learn concepts such as “wheel,” “windshield,” and “body shape” that
apply to cars in general.
This learned representation often captures semantic meaning in
ways that surprise even their creators. In an autoencoder trained on
facial images, moving smoothly through the latent space might
transition gradually from young faces to old ones or from happy
expressions to sad ones. The network discovers these meaningful
dimensions without explicit instruction, purely as a byproduct of
trying to reconstruct its training data efficiently.
The power of these learned representations extends far beyond the
autoencoder itself. Once trained, the encoder portion can serve as a
feature extractor for other tasks. The compressed representations it
produces often work better for classification, clustering, or similarity
matching than the original high-dimensional data. It’s like having a
skilled artist create a simplified sketch that captures the essence of a
complex scene—sometimes, the sketch conveys the important
information more clearly than the original photograph. It brings focus
to the important aspects by somehow diminishing the value of the
less important entities.
This ability to discover meaningful structure makes autoencoders
valuable even when perfect reconstruction isn’t the goal. They serve
as unsupervised learning tools, finding patterns and relationships in
data without requiring labeled examples. Especially in datasets
where labels are expensive or impossible to obtain, autoencoders
offer a path to understanding the underlying structure that governs

--- Strana 912 ---
the data. The representations learned by autoencoders also tend to
be robust to noise and minor variations in the input. Because the
network must compress and then reconstruct data, it naturally learns
to focus on stable, consistent features while ignoring random
fluctuations. This robustness makes autoencoder representations
particularly valuable for real-world applications where data is
inevitably messy and imperfect.
As we’ll see in the upcoming sections, these fundamental principles
of compression, reconstruction, and meaningful representation
learning form the foundation for more sophisticated generative
approaches. The simple autoencoder’s ability to learn essential
features through reconstruction provides the groundwork for
networks that can not only understand existing data but also create
entirely new examples that share those same essential
characteristics.
11.1.2    Autoencoder Architecture Deep Dive
Now that we’ve gone through an overview of the fundamental
concept behind autoencoders, this section will examine how these
networks actually accomplish their compression and reconstruction
goals. The architecture of an autoencoder is focused around
transformation, where data flows through a carefully designed
sequence of layers, each playing a specific role in the encoding and
decoding process.

--- Strana 913 ---
Encoder Structure and Functionality
The encoder is the first half of our autoencoder, transforming high-
dimensional input data into a compact, meaningful representation.
The encoder typically consists of a series of dense layers, each
progressively smaller than the previous one. (As a side note,
traditional autoencoders were all based on fully connected layers.
Only later did we begin to introduce convolutional neural networks
[CNNs] into these semi-supervised learning architectures.) If we start
with an input layer of 784 neurons (corresponding to a 28×28-pixel
image, flattened), our encoder might step down through layers of
512, 256, 128, and, finally, 64 neurons. Each layer performs a
mathematical transformation that is typical of a fully connected
neural network.
What makes the encoder special isn’t the individual operations
though. Rather, it’s how these layers work together to progressively
extract and concentrate information. The first layer might learn to
detect basic features such as edges and textures in images. The
second layer combines these features into more complex patterns,
perhaps recognizing curves or specific shapes. Each subsequent
layer builds upon the previous one’s discoveries, creating
increasingly abstract and compact representations. The elegance of
this progressive compression lies in how the network learns what to
preserve and what to discard. Unlike manual feature engineering,
where we might spend weeks deciding which aspects of our data
matter most, the encoder discovers these priorities automatically

--- Strana 914 ---
through training. It learns that certain pixel combinations are crucial
for reconstruction while others contribute little value.
Consider an encoder processing photographs of handwritten digits.
Early layers might focus on individual pixel intensities and local
contrasts—much the same as CNNs do. Middle layers could learn to
recognize stroke patterns and curves that characterize different
digits. The final encoder layers might represent each digit as a
combination of abstract features: “curvy-ness,” “number of enclosed
regions,” and “horizontal versus vertical emphasis.”
The encoder’s learning process follows the same gradient descent
principles we’ve mastered in previous chapters. The important
highlight is that during training, the network compares its final
reconstruction with the original input, calculates the reconstruction
error. Thus, our loss is simply the difference between the input and
the output. The network then backpropagates this error through both
the decoder and encoder. The encoder’s weights adjust to minimize
this reconstruction loss, gradually improving its ability to preserve
essential information while discarding redundant details.
Latent Space Representation and Its Significance
At the narrowest point of our autoencoder hourglass sits the latent
space—perhaps the most important and conceptually rich
component of the entire architecture. This compressed
representation serves as a bridge between the encoder’s analysis
and the decoder’s synthesis, but its significance extends far beyond

--- Strana 915 ---
this functional role. If you refer to Figure 11.1, you’ll notice that this
bottleneck layer is part of both the encoder and the decoder. From
the encoder’s perspective, it’s the output of the encoding process.
For the decoder, it’s the starting point from which we try to
regenerate the original input.
The latent space can be thought of as the autoencoder’s language
for describing data. Just as human languages use a finite vocabulary
to express infinite thoughts, the latent space uses a fixed number of
dimensions to capture the essential characteristics of potentially
infinite input variations. The dimensionality of this space becomes a
critical design choice that fundamentally shapes what the
autoencoder can learn and express.
Mathematically, if our encoder produces a latent representation z of
dimension d, then
Where x represents our original input. This vector z becomes the
compressed essence of our input data, containing all the information
the decoder needs for reconstruction. The magic of latent space lies
in its learned structure. Through training, the autoencoder organizes
this space so that similar inputs map to nearby points while dissimilar
inputs map to distant regions. This isn’t explicitly programmed.
Rather, it emerges naturally as the network optimizes for
reconstruction accuracy across its training data.

--- Strana 916 ---
This learned organization makes the latent space interpretable in
ways that often surprise researchers. Moving along specific
directions in the latent space might correspond to semantic changes
in the original data. In a face autoencoder, gradually changing the
value of one element in the latent vector might control age, another
might adjust lighting, and a third might modify emotional expression.
The network discovers these meaningful dimensions without explicit
supervision.
The dimensionality of the latent space therefore creates a
fundamental trade-off. A very low-dimensional latent space (say, two
or three dimensions) forces aggressive compression, potentially
losing important details but making the learned representation highly
interpretable and visualizable. A high-dimensional latent space
(hundreds or thousands of dimensions) can preserve more subtle
details but becomes harder to understand or manipulate directly.
This trade-off connects to the bias-variance dilemma we’ve
encountered in other machine learning contexts earlier in Chapter 6.
A low-dimensional latent space introduces bias by constraining what
the autoencoder can represent, but it also reduces variance by
preventing overfitting to training data peculiarities. A high-
dimensional space offers more flexibility but risks learning
representations that don’t generalize well.

--- Strana 917 ---
Decoder Reconstruction Process
The decoder is the second half of our autoencoder, taking the
compressed latent representation and expanding it back into the
original data space. If the encoder is like a skilled summarizer, the
decoder resembles a talented storyteller who can recreate a full
narrative from brief notes.
Architecturally, the decoder typically mirrors the encoder in reverse,
with each layer progressively larger than the previous one. If our
encoder stepped down from 784 to 512, 256, 128, and 64 neurons,
our decoder might climb back up through 128, 256, 512, to 784
neurons. The decoder starts with the latent representation z and
progressively expands it through layers until reaching the original
input dimensionality. However, the decoder faces a fundamentally
different challenge than the encoder. While the encoder can afford to
lose some information during compression, the decoder must
somehow recreate details that might not be fully preserved in the
latent representation at all! This is where the autoencoder’s learning
process becomes particularly elegant.
During training, the decoder learns not just to expand the latent
representation but to make educated guesses about missing details
based on patterns observed across the training data. If the latent
representation indicates “this is probably a handwritten 8,” the
decoder learns to fill in typical characteristics of how 8s are usually
written, even if some specific details were lost during encoding.

--- Strana 918 ---
[ ! ]  A Tale of Two Skills
Consider the fundamental difference between two seemingly
related abilities. Learning to recognize that an image contains a
handwritten digit 8 represents one distinct skill. Learning to
generate that same digit from scratch when instructed to “write an
8” represents an entirely different capability. People outside the
technical field often assume these skills are essentially the same,
but recognizing their distinction is crucial for understanding
machine learning. Recognition analyzes existing data to make
decisions, while generation creates new content from learned
patterns.
The reconstruction process can be viewed as a form of pattern
completion. The decoder learns the statistical relationships between
different parts of the input data, allowing it to infer missing details
from the available compressed information. This is similar to how
humans can recognize a partially obscured object—we use our
learned knowledge about typical object shapes and appearances to
“fill in the blanks.”
The final layer of the decoder deserves special attention, as it
determines the format of the reconstructed output. For image data,
this layer typically uses a sigmoid activation function to ensure pixel
values fall within the expected [0, 1] range. This obviously means
that you have to be mindful about what the original input was.
Normalizing inputs is no longer optional. Now, we must ensure that

--- Strana 919 ---
the inputs are within ranges that can be meaningfully reconstructed
by our decoder.
The quality of reconstruction depends on several factors:
The capacity of the latent space
The complexity of the decoder architecture
The diversity of the training data
A decoder trained on a narrow dataset might excel at reconstructing
similar examples but struggle with novel variations. Conversely, a
decoder trained on diverse data learns more robust reconstruction
strategies that generalize better to new inputs.
Symmetric vs. Asymmetric Architectures
The relationship between encoder and decoder architectures reveals
important design principles that affect both performance and
interpretability. While perfect symmetry might seem natural, real-
world applications often benefit from more nuanced architectural
choices. Symmetric architectures, where the decoder exactly mirrors
the encoder’s structure in reverse, offer several advantages. They
create a balanced information flow where the compression and
expansion processes receive equal computational resources. This
symmetry also simplifies hyperparameter tuning—decisions about
layer sizes, activation functions, and regularization techniques can
be applied consistently across both halves of the network. This
symmetry extends beyond just layer sizes to include activation

--- Strana 920 ---
functions, regularization techniques, and even learning rates during
training.
However, asymmetric architectures often prove more practical and
effective in real applications. The fundamental reason lies in the
different challenges faced by encoding and decoding. Compression
(encoding) benefits from aggressive dimensionality reduction and
can often be accomplished effectively with relatively few parameters.
Reconstruction (decoding), however, requires generating detailed
outputs and might need more computational resources to produce
high-quality results. And it must usually be done slowly to ensure
stability.
[+]  Stability in GenAI
Stability stands as one of the most critical concepts in GenAI,
though its importance may not be immediately obvious. When we
talk about stability in this context, we’re referring to a model’s
ability to produce consistent, high-quality outputs without erratic
behavior. An unstable generative model might produce excellent
results one moment and complete nonsense the next, making it
unreliable for practical applications. Throughout this chapter, we’ll
explore how stability affects training dynamics, output quality, and
the overall reliability of generative systems. These foundational
concepts will build toward more concrete implementations and
solutions in the following chapter, where we’ll see how modern

--- Strana 921 ---
techniques achieve the stability that makes today’s GenAI systems
so remarkably effective.
Asymmetric designs also allow for specialized architectural choices
in each half. The encoder might emphasize feature extraction with
techniques such as max pooling and dropout, while the decoder
focuses on detail preservation with skip connections and upsampling
layers. These specialized approaches can significantly improve
overall performance compared to rigid symmetry.
The choice between symmetric and asymmetric architectures often
depends on the specific application and data characteristics. For
exploratory data analysis and dimensionality reduction, symmetric
architectures provide clean, interpretable compression. For
applications requiring high-quality reconstruction—such as image
denoising or data generation—asymmetric designs typically deliver
superior results. Training dynamics also differ between symmetric
and asymmetric architectures. Symmetric networks tend to have
more balanced gradients during backpropagation, while asymmetric
networks might require careful attention to learning rates and
gradient scaling to ensure both encoder and decoder train
effectively.
11.1.3    Building Your First Autoencoder in Keras
Now that we understand what autoencoders are and how they work
conceptually, let’s roll up our sleeves and build one from scratch.

--- Strana 922 ---
We’ll be working with the Fashion-MNIST dataset, a collection of
clothing images that’s become a favorite in the machine learning
community. Unlike the traditional MNIST digits we’ve seen before,
Fashion-MNIST gives us more visually interesting results. Instead of
reconstructing simple handwritten numbers, we’ll watch our
autoencoder learn to compress and recreate shirts, shoes, bags, and
dresses. The visual feedback makes it much easier to understand
what our model is actually learning. We’ll start by setting up our data
and understanding its structure, and then architect our autoencoder
using the same fundamental concepts we explored in our gradient
descent chapters. The beauty of autoencoders lies in their simplicity
—they’re just neural networks trained with a specific objective: Make
the output match the input as closely as possible. What makes this
particularly interesting is watching how the network decides what
information is important enough to preserve in its compressed
representation. Some features of a dress might be crucial for
reconstruction, while others can be safely discarded. The network
learns these priorities entirely on its own, discovering patterns we
might never have thought to look for.
Loading and Studying the Dataset
Let’s start with our first code snippet shown in Listing 11.1. Our first
step brings us back to familiar territory: loading data from
TensorFlow’s built-in datasets. We’ve done this dance before with
other datasets, so this should be pretty straightforward. (As always,
you can take a look at the complete code listing on the book

--- Strana 923 ---
resources page at https://recluze.net/keras-book in the notebook 11-
01-autoencoder-basics.)
[+]  Autoencoders and Labels in the Dataset
Notice an important aspect of our data loading: We’re using
underscores for the labels because autoencoders don’t need
them. Our goal is to teach the network to reproduce its input as
output, regardless of whether the image shows a sneaker or a
dress. We simply want our autoencoder to learn how to compress
any fashion item and reconstruct it faithfully.
This is a significant advantage. When you don’t need labels, you
suddenly gain access to vast stores of data that are widely and
freely available. You can download images from the internet and
use them directly to train your model. Labeled data requires
human effort to create and is much more scarce than unlabeled
data. This abundance of training material makes autoencoders
particularly attractive for scenarios where acquiring labeled
datasets would be expensive or time-consuming.
The class_names array serves as our reference guide, helping us
understand what we’re looking at when we visualize results later.
These 10 categories represent everything from t-shirts to ankle
boots, giving us a rich variety of shapes and textures for our
autoencoder to master. Next is the crucial step that we’ve
emphasized before but bears repeating: Always examine your data
shapes. This might seem like a simple housekeeping task, but

--- Strana 924 ---
understanding your data dimensions is like checking your compass
before starting a hike. You need to know exactly what you’re working
with.
When you run the shape printing commands, you’ll see something
like (60000, 28, 28) for the training data—no surprises there. Before
feeding this data to our autoencoder though, we need to do some
basic preprocessing.
# Load Fashion-MNIST dataset
(x_train, _), (x_test, _) = 
keras.datasets.fashion_mnist.load_data()
# Fashion-MNIST class names for visualization
class_names = ['T-shirt/top', 'Trouser', 'Pullover', 'Dress', 
               'Coat', 'Sandal', 'Shirt', 'Sneaker', 'Bag', 
               'Ankle boot']
print(f"Training data shape: {x_train.shape}")
print(f"Test data shape: {x_test.shape}")  
Listing 11.1     Loading and Studying the Dataset
First is normalization (see Listing 11.2). Our pixel values start as
integers between 0 and 255, but we transform them to floating point
numbers between 0 and 1. We’ve done this before, but with
autoencoders, this step becomes even more crucial. Remember, our
network must learn to reconstruct the exact input it receives. When
pixel values are spread across a wide range, such as 0 to 255, our
network struggles to learn the subtle differences between similar
shades. Converting to the 0–1 range creates a more stable (here’s

--- Strana 925 ---
that word again) learning environment. Our gradient descent
algorithm can now make steady, predictable adjustments rather than
taking wild, unpredictable steps that might overshoot the target.
The reshaping operation adds another dimension to our data,
transforming our images from (28, 28) to (28, 28, 1). This extra
dimension represents the color channels—even though our Fashion-
MNIST images are grayscale and only need one channel, Keras
expects this explicit channel dimension. This consistency becomes
invaluable when you later work with color images that have three
channels. For autoencoders specifically, this channel dimension
affects how our network processes spatial relationships. The
encoder needs to understand that it’s working with 2D image data,
not just a flat array of numbers. When we flatten the data later in our
architecture, we want to do it intentionally as part of our design, not
by accident due to improper formatting.
After preprocessing, our training data transforms from (60000, 28,
28) to (60000, 28, 28, 1). That single additional dimension might
seem trivial, but it tells our autoencoder exactly how to interpret the
spatial structure it needs to compress and later reconstruct.
# Normalize pixel values to [0, 1] range
x_train = x_train.astype('float32') / 255.0
x_test = x_test.astype('float32') / 255.0
# Reshape to add channel dimension
x_train = x_train.reshape((len(x_train), 28, 28, 1))
x_test = x_test.reshape((len(x_test), 28, 28, 1))

--- Strana 926 ---
print(f"Preprocessed training shape: {x_train.shape}")
print(f"Preprocessed test shape: {x_test.shape}")  
Listing 11.2     Normalizing Data
We’ve reached the heart of our autoencoder: its architecture (see
Listing 11.3). Using Keras’s Functional API, we’re building something
that resembles an hourglass—wide at both ends, narrow in the
middle. This create_autoencoder function encapsulates the entire
design philosophy of compression and reconstruction in one elegant
structure. The function begins by establishing our input layer and
immediately makes a crucial decision: flattening the 2D image into a
1D vector. (As mentioned before, traditional autoencoders only
worked with dense layers. We’ll take a look at other options later in
Section 11.2.3.) From there, we create our encoder layers with
decreasing sizes—128 neurons, then 64, finally bottlenecking down
to our encoding_dim (defaulting to 32).
def create_autoencoder(input_shape, encoding_dim=32):
    # Encoder
    input_img = keras.Input(shape=input_shape)
    
    # Flatten the input
    x = layers.Flatten()(input_img)
    
    # Hidden layers with decreasing size
    x = layers.Dense(128, activation='relu')(x)
    x = layers.Dense(64, activation='relu')(x)
    
    # Bottleneck layer (encoded representation)
    encoded = layers.Dense(encoding_dim, activation='relu')(x)

--- Strana 927 ---
    
    # Decoder
    x = layers.Dense(64, activation='relu')(encoded)
    x = layers.Dense(128, activation='relu')(x)
    x = layers.Dense(28 * 28, activation='sigmoid')(x)
    
    # Reshape back to original image shape
    decoded = layers.Reshape((28, 28, 1))(x)
    
    # Create the autoencoder model
    autoencoder = keras.Model(input_img, decoded)
    
    # Create encoder model (for getting encoded 
representations)
    encoder = keras.Model(input_img, encoded)
    
    return autoencoder, encoder  
Listing 11.3     The Autoencoder Architecture
Significance of the Design Decisions
Every choice we make in this architecture shapes how our
autoencoder learns and what it can accomplish. Let’s explore the
reasoning behind each decision and consider alternative
approaches.
Our choice to flatten the input represents a fundamental trade-off. By
converting our 2D image into a 1D vector, we’re essentially telling
our network to forget about spatial relationships initially. A pixel in the
top-left corner becomes just another number in our sequence, no

--- Strana 928 ---
different from a pixel in the bottom-right. This approach works well
for Fashion-MNIST because clothing items often have distinctive
global features. A dress might be recognizable by its overall shape
rather than specific spatial patterns. However, we’re sacrificing the
ability to preserve local spatial relationships that might matter for
more complex images.
Alternative approaches exist. We could use convolutional layers in
our encoder, gradually reducing spatial dimensions while preserving
local relationships. This would be like having an artist who notices
both the overall composition and the fine brushwork details rather
than just the overall color palette.
Our encoder layers follow a carefully planned progression: 784 to
128 to 64 to 32. This represents compression ratios of roughly 6:1,
then 2:1, then 2:1 again. Are these particular ratios important? The
answer is a little nuanced.
Aggressive compression in a single step often fails catastrophically.
Consider trying to summarize a novel in one sentence versus
gradually condensing it through chapter summaries, then page
summaries, then sentence summaries. Our gradual approach gives
the network multiple opportunities to identify what information
deserves preservation at each level. The 128-neuron layer might
learn to represent major clothing categories and basic shapes. The
64-neuron layer could refine these into more specific patterns such
as sleeves, collars, or hemlines. Finally, the 32-neuron bottleneck

--- Strana 929 ---
forces the network to distill everything into its most essential
features.
We could experiment with different progressions. A steeper
compression (784 to 64 to 32) might work for simpler datasets, while
a gentler slope (784 to 256 to 128 to 64 to 32) might better preserve
detail for complex images. The choice depends on how much
information we can afford to lose and is one of the major decisions
that have to be made by a machine learning engineer.
Overall, our 32-dimensional encoding represents a compression
ratio of approximately 25:1. Each Fashion-MNIST image gets
squeezed from 784 numbers down to just 32. These 32 values must
somehow capture everything needed to reconstruct a recognizable
image. This bottleneck size reflects another trade-off. Smaller
bottlenecks force more aggressive compression, potentially leading
to more abstract, generalized representations. A 16-dimensional
bottleneck might discover higher-level concepts such as “has
sleeves” or “is footwear.” Larger bottlenecks such as 64 or 128
dimensions might preserve more specific details but miss
opportunities for meaningful abstraction.
We use Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU) activation throughout most of
our network, as we’ve discussed in previous chapters. But notice
that the final layer uses sigmoid activation. This choice ensures our
output values stay between 0 and 1, matching our normalized input
range.

--- Strana 930 ---
We could experiment with other activations. Tanh might provide
better gradient flow in some cases, while newer activations such as
Swish could potentially improve training dynamics. However, that
final sigmoid remains crucial for matching our output range to our
input expectations.
[+]  The Swish Activation Function
Swish represents a smooth alternative to ReLU, defined as
 where  is the sigmoid function. Unlike ReLU’s
sharp corner at 0, Swish provides smooth derivatives everywhere,
which can improve gradient flow during training. The function
exhibits self-gating behavior, allowing the network to dynamically
control information flow based on the input’s own value. Swish
(and its derivatives, e.g., SwiGLU) sits between ReLU and
Gaussian Error Linear Unit (GeLU) (both of which we’ve covered
before) in terms of computational complexity and performance,
offering better results than ReLU in many tasks while being
simpler than GELU.
It’s generally a good idea to keep track of different activation
functions (and optimizers) being proposed in the literature. You
never know which one might suit the specific dataset you’re
working with! We’ll cover how to keep track of all of these
innovations in the final chapter of this book.
This architectural foundation gives us tremendous flexibility. We can
adjust the bottleneck size, experiment with different layer

--- Strana 931 ---
progressions, or even swap in convolutional layers later. But for now,
this simple, symmetric design provides an excellent starting point for
understanding how autoencoders compress and reconstruct
information.
Next, we bring our architectural blueprint to life through the code
shown in Listing 11.4. When we call create_autoencoder with our
image dimensions and encoding size, we’re essentially
commissioning two related but distinct tools for our compression
workshop. The first tool is our complete autoencoder—the full
assembly line that takes raw images, compresses them through the
bottleneck, and reconstructs them back to their original form. This is
our workhorse, the model we’ll train to become an expert at the
compress-and-reconstruct dance.
The second tool is the encoder by itself—just the compression half of
our operation. Having this separate model is like having a
specialized tool that can peek inside our compression process. While
the full autoencoder shows us how well we can reconstruct images,
the standalone encoder lets us examine what the network considers
most important about each image. We can extract those crucial 32
numbers that represent the essence of any fashion item and study
them directly. This dual-model approach opens up powerful
possibilities. We might train the full autoencoder on thousands of
images, then use just the encoder to compress new images for
storage or comparison. Or, we could analyze the encoded
representations to understand what patterns the network has
discovered.

--- Strana 932 ---
The compile step deserves special attention, particularly our choice
of loss function. We’re using binary cross-entropy, which might seem
surprising at first. After all, we’re not doing binary classification—
we’re reconstructing images. Binary cross-entropy excels at
comparing pixel-by-pixel similarity between our original and
reconstructed images. Each pixel in our normalized images sits
between 0 and 1, much like a probability. Binary cross-entropy treats
each pixel as an independent prediction problem: How well does our
reconstructed pixel value match the original? This loss function
encourages our autoencoder to get every pixel as close as possible
to its target value. When a pixel should be 0.8 (a light gray) and our
network produces 0.3 (a darker gray), binary cross-entropy provides
a strong penalty that guides our network toward better
reconstruction.
Compare this to mean squared error (MSE), which we’ve used for
regression problems. While MSE could work here, binary cross-
entropy often trains more efficiently for image reconstruction tasks. It
provides more nuanced gradients when dealing with values in the 0–
1 range, helping our network learn faster and more precisely.
autoencoder, encoder = create_autoencoder((28, 28, 1), 
                                         encoding_dim=32)
autoencoder.compile(optimizer='adam', 
loss='binary_crossentropy')
print("Autoencoder Architecture:")
autoencoder.summary()

--- Strana 933 ---
print("\nEncoder Architecture:")
encoder.summary()  
Listing 11.4     Creating and Training the Autoencoder
Let’s go ahead and take a look at our trained autoencoder’s dual
nature. Having separate autoencoder and encoder models reveals
its true power. When we run autoencoder.predict on our test images
(as shown in Listing 11.5), each fashion item travels through the
entire compression-reconstruction pipeline, emerging as a
decoded_imgs array that should closely resemble our original inputs.
These are our autoencoder’s best attempts at perfect reconstruction
—its artistic interpretations of the original images after they’ve been
squeezed through that narrow 32-dimensional bottleneck. But we
can also use the standalone encoder model separately. The
encoded_imgs represent the distilled essence of each fashion item,
compressed into just 32 numbers. Each image that originally
required 784 values (28×28×1) now exists as a compact signature of
only 32 dimensions. These encoded representations become
particularly valuable for other tasks. Because each image reduces to
just 32 numbers, we can quickly compare images by comparing their
encoded vectors. Similar clothing items should have similar encoded
representations, making these compressed signatures useful for
organizing, searching, or analyzing fashion datasets at scale.

--- Strana 934 ---
[+]  Semantic Image Search Through Autoencoders
We can perform semantic image search using autoencoders by
using their ability to create meaningful compressed
representations. First, we apply the encoder portion of our trained
autoencoder to all images in our database, creating a collection of
latent vectors that represent each image’s essential features.
When a user wants to search for images similar to a query image,
we compress that query through the same encoder to obtain its
latent representation. We then search for images in our database
whose latent vectors are closest to the query vector in this
compressed space. This is a simple matter of finding other vectors
with the smallest Euclidean distance to our query vector. This
highly efficient approach works because images with similar visual
content will have similar representations in the latent space,
allowing us to find semantically related images even if they differ in
exact pixel values.
What’s more, this concept isn’t limited to image search only. We
can compress any type of data through technique and search
based on some query that is of the same type.
# Get predictions on test data
decoded_imgs = autoencoder.predict(x_test)
# Get encoded representations
encoded_imgs = encoder.predict(x_test)
print(f"Original image shape: {x_test[0].shape}")

--- Strana 935 ---
print(f"Encoded representation shape: {encoded_imgs[0].shape}")
print(f"Compression ratio: {np.prod(x_test[0].shape)/ 
                        np.prod(encoded_imgs[0].shape):.1f}x")
# Output: 
# Original image shape: (28, 28, 1)
# Encoded representation shape: (32,)
# Compression ratio: 24.5x  
Listing 11.5     Running the Autoencoder
Generation Results and Takeaways
Let’s take a look at some results in the form of reconstructed images
shown in Figure 11.2. This image demonstrates very important
concepts about the fundamental trade-offs in autoencoder design.
We’re seeing the same sneaker processed through three different
autoencoders, each with a different bottleneck size. The results
reveal something crucial about the relationship between
compression and quality. Look at the top row first, where we’ve
compressed our image into just two dimensions. That’s an
extraordinary compression ratio of 392:1. The reconstruction
attempts to capture the essence of a sneaker, but it’s clearly
struggling. The shoe appears as a blurry, somewhat abstract
representation. The difference image shows intense brightness
variations, revealing exactly where the reconstruction failed to match
the original. These two dimensions are doing their absolute best to
encode everything important about this sneaker. Maybe one

--- Strana 936 ---
dimension captures “shoe-like elongation” while the other represents
“overall brightness.” Whatever they are trying to capture, clearly, two
numbers simply can’t hold enough information to recreate the subtle
details, textures, and precise shapes that make this sneaker
recognizable.
Moving to the middle row with 16 dimensions, we see immediate
improvement. The reconstructed sneaker looks much more shoe-
like, with clearer definition of its silhouette and some internal
structure becoming visible. The difference image still shows
significant errors, but they’re less intense and more localized. Those
16 numbers can now probably encode concepts such as “has laces,”
“curved toe section,” “heel height,” and perhaps even some texture
information.
The bottom row, using 64 dimensions, produces the most faithful
reconstruction. While still not perfect, the sneaker maintains most of
its defining characteristics. The sole is clearly visible, the overall
proportions look correct, and fine details are beginning to emerge.
The difference image shows the smallest errors, concentrated mainly
in areas of subtle shading and texture. Of course, there’s no magic
threshold where reconstruction suddenly becomes perfect. Instead,
we see a gradual improvement as we allow our bottleneck to retain
more information. Each additional dimension we add to our encoding
provides space for one more crucial piece of information about the
image. But here’s what makes this particularly interesting: Even with
severe compression, the autoencoder still produces something
recognizably shoe-like. This suggests that our network has learned

--- Strana 937 ---
meaningful representations at every level of compression. The 2D
version might be unusable for detailed analysis, but it’s still capturing
some essential “sneaker-ness” that allows basic recognition.
This trade-off between compression and quality sits at the heart of
autoencoder design. In real-world applications, we might choose
different bottleneck sizes depending on our priorities. For storage
efficiency, we might accept the blurry 16-dimensional reconstruction.
For high-quality image processing, we’d need the 64-dimensional
version or larger.
Finally, the “difference” images in the right-most column serve as our
quality inspectors, showing us exactly where each compression level
fails. The bright regions highlight the pixels where reconstruction
errors are most severe. Notice how these error patterns change
across different bottleneck sizes—they’re not just smaller versions of
the same errors but entirely different types of mistakes as the
network adapts to different information constraints. Having helper
visualizations like this make the models more interpretable and help
us gain a better understanding of what’s going on in the black box

--- Strana 938 ---
that is the neural network. This understanding in turn helps us make
informed decisions about autoencoder architecture.
Figure 11.2     Autoencoder Image Reconstruction Results
11.1.4    Types of Autoencoders
Now that we’ve built our first autoencoder and seen how it can learn
to compress and reconstruct images, this section will explore the
different flavors of autoencoders available to us. Each type
addresses specific challenges or use cases, much like having
different tools in a toolbox—each one designed for particular jobs.
The autoencoder we just built is what we call a vanilla autoencoder
—the most straightforward implementation of the encoding-decoding
concept. While vanilla autoencoders work well for basic compression
tasks, researchers have developed several variations that offer

--- Strana 939 ---
unique advantages for different scenarios. These variants modify
either the architecture, the training process, or the loss function to
achieve specific goals.
Vanilla Autoencoders: The Foundation
Our vanilla autoencoder represents the purest form of the encoding-
decoding paradigm. It learns to compress data into a smaller
representation and then reconstruct the original input as accurately
as possible. The simplicity of vanilla autoencoders makes them
excellent starting points for understanding the core concepts, and
they work remarkably well for straightforward compression tasks.
When you have clean data, and your primary goal is dimensionality
reduction or basic feature extraction, vanilla autoencoders often
provide exactly what you need. They’re like a reliable, no-frills
camera that consistently produces good quality photos without fancy
features getting in the way. However, vanilla autoencoders can
sometimes learn trivial solutions or become too specialized to the
training data. They might also struggle when the input data contains
noise or when we want the learned representations to have specific
properties. This is where the specialized variants become valuable.
Sparse Autoencoders: Learning Selective Representations
Sparse autoencoders introduce an additional constraint during
training: They encourage the hidden units in the bottleneck layer to
be mostly inactive. Instead of allowing all neurons to contribute

--- Strana 940 ---
equally to the representation, sparse autoencoders push most
neurons to output values close to 0, forcing only a small subset to be
active for any given input. To understand why this sparsity might be
useful, recall the concept of dropout discussed in Chapter 6. When
you look at a face, only specific neurons related to facial features
become highly active, while neurons responsible for detecting cars
or buildings remain relatively quiet. This selective activation creates
more interpretable and robust representations. In autoencoders, we
achieve sparsity by adding a regularization term to our loss function.
Again, details of this were covered at length in Chapter 6. In
essence, this term penalizes neurons for being active, creating a
tension between reconstruction accuracy and sparsity. The
autoencoder must learn to reconstruct inputs accurately while using
as few active neurons as possible. This constraint forces the network
to discover the most important features in the data. The
regularization term typically measures how much each neuron
deviates from a desired average activation level. If we want neurons
to be active only 5% of the time on average, we penalize deviations
from this target. The strength of this penalty is controlled by a
hyperparameter that balances reconstruction quality against sparsity.
Sparse autoencoders excel in feature discovery and interpretability.
Because they use only a small number of active neurons for each
input, the learned representations often correspond to meaningful,
interpretable features. They’re particularly useful when you want to
understand what patterns the autoencoder has discovered in your

--- Strana 941 ---
data. There are other challenges and use cases for autoencoders
though.
Denoising Autoencoders: Building Robustness
Denoising autoencoders tackle one such challenge: learning
representations that are robust to noise and corruption. Instead of
training on clean data, we intentionally corrupt the input data during
training while still asking the autoencoder to reconstruct the original,
uncorrupted version. The corruption process can take many forms.
We might randomly set some pixels to 0, add Gaussian noise to the
input, or apply other types of distortion. The key insight is that by
forcing the autoencoder to recover clean data from corrupted inputs,
we encourage it to learn more robust and generalizable features.
This approach mirrors how humans learn to recognize objects even
when they’re partially obscured or distorted. You can still recognize a
friend’s face even if they’re wearing sunglasses or if the lighting is
poor. Denoising autoencoders develop similar robustness by
learning to focus on the essential, stable features of the data rather
than getting distracted by noise or irrelevant details.
The training process becomes a game of recovery: We corrupt the
input, pass it through the encoder to get a compressed
representation, and then ask the decoder to reconstruct the original,
uncorrupted image. This also forces the autoencoder to learn
representations that capture the underlying structure of the data
rather than memorizing specific pixel patterns, but in a different way.

--- Strana 942 ---
Denoising autoencoders are particularly valuable for preprocessing
noisy data, detecting anomalies , and creating more robust feature
representations. They often generalize better than vanilla
autoencoders because they’ve learned to ignore irrelevant variations
in the input. We’ll implement a denoising autoencoder shortly to see
these principles in action.
The transformation from our standard autoencoder to a denoising
version requires only a few strategic modifications, but each change
serves a crucial purpose in teaching our network to clean corrupted
images. We’ve shown the relevant portion of the changes in
Listing 11.6. You can see the full code and experiment with it on the
book’s resources page at https://recluze.net/keras-book in the
notebook 11-02-denoising-autoencoder.
The first essential addition creates our corrupted training data. We
introduce Gaussian noise to both our training and test sets, scaling it
by a noise_factor of 0.5. This parameter controls how much
corruption we add—higher values create more challenging denoising
tasks, while lower values make the problem easier but potentially
less useful for real-world applications. The np.random.normal function
generates noise with zero mean and unit variance, which we then
scale and add to our clean images. This simulates the kind of
random corruption that might occur in real-world scenarios—sensor
noise in cameras, transmission errors in digital communications, or
degradation in stored images. The clipping operation ensures our
noisy pixel values stay within the valid 0–1 range, preventing the
noise from pushing values into irregular territories.

--- Strana 943 ---
noise_factor = 0.5
x_train_noisy = x_train + noise_factor * np.random.normal(
    loc=0.0, scale=1.0, size=x_train.shape)
x_test_noisy = x_test + noise_factor * np.random.normal(
    loc=0.0, scale=1.0, size=x_test.shape)
# Clip values to [0, 1] range
x_train_noisy = np.clip(x_train_noisy, 0., 1.)
x_test_noisy = np.clip(x_test_noisy, 0., 1.)  
Listing 11.6     Preparing the Training Data for the Denoising Autoencoder
Our autoencoder architecture (both the encoder and the decoder)
remain the same. The only change occurs in our training process.
Instead of the self-supervised approach we used before, where input
and output were identical, we now train with a supervised setup. This
single line of code (shown in Listing 11.7) represents a fundamental
shift in our autoencoder’s objective. We’re feeding corrupted images
as input but demanding clean images as output. The network must
learn to identify and remove the noise while preserving the essential
features that make each fashion item recognizable. This training
strategy forces our autoencoder to develop a more sophisticated
understanding of what constitutes meaningful information versus
random corruption. The encoder must learn to extract features that
represent the true underlying image structure, while the decoder
must reconstruct the original no-noise image based on these noise-
resistant features rather than simply copying corrupted input details.
What makes this approach particularly powerful is that we haven’t
changed our architecture at all. The same hourglass structure that

--- Strana 944 ---
learned to compress and reconstruct clean images now learns to
compress noisy images and reconstruct clean ones. The bottleneck
layer becomes even more crucial—it must capture the essential
image information while filtering out the random noise that would
otherwise propagate through to the output.
history = autoencoder.fit(x_train_noisy, x_train,
                         epochs=50,
                         batch_size=256,
                         shuffle=True,
                         validation_data=(x_test_noisy, 
x_test),
                         verbose=1)  
Listing 11.7     Training the Denoising Autoencoder

--- Strana 945 ---
The results of the training, shown in Figure 11.3, demonstrate how
our denoising autoencoder handles increasingly challenging
corruption levels.
Figure 11.3     Results of a Denoising Autoencoder
With light noise (top row), the network produces reasonable
reconstructions, though some blurriness remains. The moderate
noise level (middle rows) shows decent recovery of the basic shoe
shape, but fine details become lost. Under heavy noise (bottom row),
the autoencoder still manages to extract the general sneaker outline,
but significant structural details disappear. The progression
demonstrates a fundamental limitation: As noise increases, our fixed-
capacity bottleneck struggles to separate genuine image features
from corruption. The network learns to preserve the most robust,

--- Strana 946 ---
noise-resistant patterns while sacrificing subtler details that become
indistinguishable from random variations.
Notice how the difference images show increasingly intense error
patterns with higher noise levels. This suggests that while our
autoencoder maintains some denoising capability across all
conditions, there’s a practical limit to how much corruption it can
handle before reconstruction quality becomes unacceptable for real
applications.
[+]  Denoising as a Powerful Tool
Keep this simple concept of adding noise in mind as we progress
with our discussion of GenAI. In the next chapter, we’ll use this
elegant concept to introduce one of the most powerful, state-of-
the-art models in image generation—a model that uses this
concept (along with some other innovations) to generate
photorealistic images from scratch.
Contractive Autoencoders: Ensuring Stability
Let’s consider one last type of autoencoder. Contractive
autoencoders focus on learning representations that are stable—
small changes in the input should produce only small changes in the
encoded representation. This stability is achieved by adding a
penalty term that encourages the encoder to be less sensitive to
input variations. The mathematical foundation involves the Jacobian

--- Strana 947 ---
matrix (think of this as a collection of partial derivatives) of the
encoder function, which captures how much the encoded
representation changes with respect to changes in the input. The
contractive penalty encourages this Jacobian matrix to have small
values, meaning the encoder’s output remains relatively stable even
when the input undergoes small perturbations. This stability property
makes contractive autoencoders particularly useful when you need
representations that remain consistent despite minor variations in the
input data. They’re valuable for applications where robustness to
small perturbations is crucial, such as in medical imaging, where
slight variations in image acquisition shouldn’t dramatically affect the
learned features.
The contractive penalty is computed as the Frobenius norm of the
Jacobian matrix of the encoder. This mathematical formulation
encourages the encoder to learn smooth mappings from input to
representation space. It might sound complicated, but the
formulation remains the same as denoising autoencoders. We just
add a regularization term to the loss just as we did in Chapter 6.
Choosing the Right Type
Each autoencoder variant addresses specific needs and challenges.
Vanilla autoencoders work well for clean data and straightforward
compression tasks. Sparse autoencoders excel when interpretability
and feature discovery are priorities. Denoising autoencoders shine
when dealing with noisy data or when you need robust

--- Strana 948 ---
representations. Contractive autoencoders are ideal when stability
and smooth representations are essential. The choice often depends
on your specific use case and the characteristics of your data. If your
data is clean and you simply need compression, vanilla
autoencoders might suffice. If you’re working with noisy sensor data,
denoising autoencoders could be the better choice. For applications
requiring interpretable features, sparse autoencoders might be ideal.
Many practitioners experiment with different types to see which
works best for their specific problem. The good news is that
implementing these variants typically requires only modest changes
to the basic autoencoder architecture or training process as we saw
earlier. The core concepts remain the same—we’re just adding
different constraints or modifications to achieve specific goals.
Understanding these different types prepares us to tackle a wide
range of problems with autoencoders. Each variant represents a
different tool in our machine learning toolkit, ready to be deployed
when the situation calls for its particular strengths.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 949 ---
11.2    Variational Autoencoders
While the autoencoders we’ve explored so far are powerful tools for
learning representations and reconstructing data, they have a
fundamental limitation that prevents them from being truly
generative. When we train a basic autoencoder on handwritten
digits, it becomes excellent at compressing and reconstructing those
specific digits. But what happens when we want to create entirely
new digits that look realistic but weren’t in our original dataset? This
is where things get tricky with traditional autoencoders. The latent
space—that compressed representation in the middle of our network
—doesn’t necessarily have any meaningful structure for generation.
If we randomly sample a point from this latent space and feed it to
our decoder, we’re likely to get garbage output rather than something
that resembles a real digit.
The root of this problem lies in how deterministic autoencoders work.
Each input gets mapped to exactly one point in the latent space.
While this creates a perfect reconstruction pathway, it doesn’t
guarantee that the space between these points contains anything
meaningful. Consider a map where only the major cities are marked,
but all the roads connecting them are invisible. You can get from city
to city if you know exactly where they are, but trying to navigate the
space between them becomes impossible.

--- Strana 950 ---
In this section, we’ll first describe this problem of navigating the
uncertain spaces between known points. We’ll then discuss the
mathematical framework necessary for understanding this new type
of model and the implementation details associated with them.
11.2.1    Navigating the Space with Uncertainty
Variational Autoencoders (VAEs) solve this challenge by taking a
fundamentally different approach. Instead of mapping each input to a
single point in latent space, VAEs embrace uncertainty and
probability. They transform our deterministic encoding process into a
probabilistic one, creating a latent space that’s not only structured
but also continuous and meaningful for generation. The key insight
behind VAEs comes from treating the encoding process as learning
probability distributions rather than fixed points. Instead of saying,
“this image of a handwritten 7 maps to coordinates (2.3, -1.7, 0.8) in
latent space,” a VAE learns to say, “this image represents a region in
latent space where similar 7s might exist, centered around (2.3, -1.7,
0.8) with some spread or uncertainty.” This seemingly minor change
changes everything about how we approach the latent space. Now,
instead of discrete points scattered across our representation space,
we have overlapping probability clouds. Each input doesn’t claim
ownership of a single location but influences a broader region. This
overlap is crucial—it means that the space between our training
examples contains meaningful information rather than empty voids.

--- Strana 951 ---
Understanding latent variable models helps us grasp why this
probabilistic approach works so well. In traditional machine learning,
we often work with observable variables—the pixels in an image, the
words in a sentence, the measurements we can directly take. But
many real-world phenomena are driven by hidden or latent variables
that we can’t observe directly.
Consider human faces as an example. The pixels we see in a
photograph are the observable variables, but they’re generated by
latent factors we can’t directly measure: the person’s age, their
emotional expression, the lighting conditions, the angle of their head,
and countless other hidden influences. A latent variable model
attempts to discover and model these underlying factors that
generate what we observe.
VAEs operate on this principle by learning to map observable data
(e.g., images) to a latent space that captures these hidden
generative factors. The probabilistic nature ensures that this latent
space is well-structured and continuous, making it suitable for
generating new data by sampling from it. But there’s a mathematical
challenge that makes implementing this probabilistic approach tricky:
the reparameterization trick. When we want to train a neural network,
we need to compute gradients—the mathematical directions that tell
us how to adjust our weights to improve performance. The problem
with sampling from probability distributions is that sampling
operations aren’t differentiable. You can’t compute a gradient
through a random sampling step.

--- Strana 952 ---
The reparameterization trick solves this elegant problem with an
equally elegant solution. Instead of directly sampling from the
distribution our encoder produces, we separate the randomness
from the learned parameters. This might sound complicated but it’s
going to make sense in a little while. Our encoder learns to output
two things: the mean ( ) and the standard deviation ( ) of a
probability distribution. Then, instead of sampling directly from this
distribution, we sample from a standard normal distribution, which
doesn’t depend on our network’s parameters, and use a simple
mathematical transformation to convert this sample into one from our
desired distribution.
Mathematically, if we want to sample from a distribution with mean 
and standard deviation , we can sample  from a standard normal
distribution and compute our final sample as 
. This
way, the randomness comes from , which has no connection to our
network parameters, while the learned components  and  remain
differentiable. It’s like separating the dice roll from the game rules—
we can learn better rules while keeping the fundamental randomness
that makes the game interesting. This reparameterization trick
becomes the foundation that makes VAE training possible. It allows
us to maintain the probabilistic nature of our latent space while still
being able to train our network using standard gradient-based
methods. Without this clever mathematical insight, the entire VAE
framework would be impossible to implement in practice.
The implications of this probabilistic approach extend far beyond just
solving a technical training problem. By structuring our latent space

--- Strana 953 ---
as overlapping probability distributions, VAEs learn representations
that capture not just what the data looks like but also how it varies
and what constitutes reasonable variations. This understanding of
data variability becomes the key to their generative capabilities,
allowing them to create new, realistic samples by intelligently
navigating the learned probabilistic landscape.
11.2.2    Mathematical Framework of Variational
Autoencoders
Now that we understand why VAEs take a probabilistic approach,
this section will examine how this translates into actual mathematics
and code. The shift from deterministic to probabilistic encoding
fundamentally changes how we design and train our networks,
requiring us to rethink both the architecture and the loss function that
guides our learning process.
Encoder as Probability Distribution Generator
In our traditional autoencoders, the encoder assigned each input to
exactly one coordinate in latent space. The VAE encoder on the
other hand, instead of pinpointing exact locations, describes
probability clouds that capture the uncertainty and variability inherent
in real data.
This fundamental change means our encoder needs to output not
just a single value for each dimension of our latent space but rather

--- Strana 954 ---
the parameters that define a probability distribution. For VAEs, we
typically choose to work with Gaussian (normal) distributions
because they have nice mathematical properties and represent
uncertainty in a natural way that mirrors many real-world
phenomena. Instead of producing a latent vector z directly, our VAE
encoder generates two separate outputs for each dimension of the
latent space: a mean  and a standard deviation . These are the
center and spread of our probability cloud. The mean tells us where
the distribution is centered, while the standard deviation describes
how spread out or concentrated our uncertainty is around that
center.
Mathematically, our encoder learns to map an input x to parameters
 and 
, which define a Gaussian distribution
. This notation might look intimidating, but
it simply says that given an input x, we have a normal distribution
over possible latent representations z, centered at 
 with variance
.
The elegance of this approach becomes apparent when we consider
what happens during training and generation. During training, we
sample from this learned distribution to get our latent representation.
This sampling process introduces the variability that prevents our
model from memorizing exact mappings and instead forces it to
learn robust, generalizable representations. If the model hasn’t seen
many instances of the digit 8, it will have a large spread in its
prediction owing to its lack of confidence in the position of the digit in
the latent space.

--- Strana 955 ---
Conversely, when we want to generate new data, we can sample
from our learned latent space, knowing that any reasonable sample
should decode into something meaningful. It’s like having a detailed
weather map that doesn’t just show you where storms are right now
but gives you the probability distributions that let you predict where
storms might form.
The encoder architecture in Keras code (shown in Listing 11.8)
reflects this dual output requirement. Instead of ending with a single
dense layer that outputs our latent dimensions directly, we split into
two parallel paths: one dense layer for the means and another for
the standard deviations. Both layers have the same number of units
as our desired latent dimensionality, but they serve completely
different roles in defining our probability distribution. The power of
the Keras Functional API will make this seem almost trivial.
# Traditional autoencoder encoder
latent = Dense(latent_dim, activation='relu')(x)
# VAE encoder - outputs distribution parameters
z_mean = Dense(latent_dim)(x)
z_log_var = Dense(latent_dim)(x)  
Listing 11.8     Core Change from Vanilla Autoencoder to Variational Autoencoder
Notice that we typically work with the logarithm of the variance (
) rather than the standard deviation directly. This is both a
numerical stability trick and a way to ensure our variance stays
positive—because ex is positive for all values of x, we can let our

--- Strana 956 ---
network output any real number for the log variance without worrying
about accidentally creating negative variances.
Kullback–Leibler Divergence and Reconstruction Loss
Combination
The probabilistic nature of VAEs introduces another fundamental
challenge that doesn’t exist in traditional autoencoders: We need to
balance two competing objectives that pull our model in different
directions. On one hand, we want our reconstructions to be as
accurate as possible—this pushes us toward learning very specific,
precise encodings for each input. On the other hand, we want our
latent space to be well-structured and suitable for generation—this
pushes us toward learning smooth, continuous representations
where similar inputs have overlapping probability distributions. This
tension is resolved through a clever combination of two loss
components: reconstruction loss and Kullback–Leibler (KL)
divergence. The reconstruction loss is familiar territory—it measures
how well our decoder can recreate the original input from the latent
representation. For images, this is typically MSE (or binary cross-
entropy) between the original and reconstructed pixels, just like in
traditional autoencoders.
The KL divergence measures how different two probability
distributions are from each other. In our case, we use it to measure
how much our learned distribution 
 differs from a standard
normal distribution 
.

--- Strana 957 ---
This equation might look complex, but each term has a clear
purpose. The 
 term penalizes means that are far from 0,
encouraging our latent representations to be centered around the
origin. The 
 term penalizes very large variances, preventing our
distributions from becoming too spread out. The 
 term
prevents the variances from collapsing to 0, ensuring we maintain
some uncertainty, and the constant 
 term balances the equation
mathematically. The intuition behind this KL divergence penalty is
that we want our learned latent space to resemble a standard normal
distribution. This constraint serves multiple purposes:
Ensures that different regions of our latent space have similar
densities (preventing empty regions that would produce poor
generations)
Keeps our representations centered and scaled reasonably
Allows us to generate new samples by simply sampling from a
standard normal distribution
The complete VAE loss function combines these two components:
The reconstruction loss encourages accurate reproduction of inputs,
while the KL divergence term encourages a well-structured latent
space. The parameter  controls the balance between these

--- Strana 958 ---
objectives, and choosing its value becomes crucial for training
effective VAEs.
[+]  The Interconnectedness of Machine Learning Concepts
Notice how this loss (as well as the underlying motivation) strongly
resembles the L2 regularization we covered in Chapter 6. This is
why we spent so much time understanding L2 loss even though it
wasn’t used directly in neural networks. Once you understand the
core concepts covered in this book deeply, it becomes very easy
to learn new concepts as they are introduced. This is the strength
that can aid you in keeping up with the fast pace of machine
learning and AI advancements.
Balancing the Loss Components for Optimal Generation
The  parameter in our loss function represents one of the most
critical hyperparameters in VAE training, yet its importance is often
underestimated. This single value controls the fundamental trade-off
between reconstruction quality and generative capability, and getting
it right can mean the difference between a VAE that generates
realistic samples and one that produces blurry, unrealistic outputs.
When  is too small (approaching 0), the KL divergence term
becomes negligible, and our VAE behaves more like a traditional
autoencoder. The model focuses almost entirely on perfect
reconstruction, learning very specific encodings for each input. While

--- Strana 959 ---
this produces excellent reconstructions, the latent space becomes
fragmented and unsuitable for generation.
Conversely, when  is too large, the KL divergence term dominates,
forcing our latent representations to stay very close to a standard
normal distribution. While this creates a beautifully structured latent
space perfect for sampling, the reconstruction quality suffers
dramatically. The model becomes so focused on maintaining the
proper latent space structure that it can’t learn the specific details
necessary for accurate reconstruction.
The standard approach sets 
, treating both loss components
as equally important. This balanced approach often works well, but
the optimal value depends heavily on your specific dataset and
application. For high-resolution images where reconstruction detail
matters enormously, you might use a smaller  to prioritize accuracy.
For applications where generation quality is paramount, a larger 
might be appropriate. There’s also an interesting training technique
called Beta annealing, ( -annealing) where we start with a small 
value and gradually increase it during training. This approach allows
the model to first focus on learning good reconstructions, then
gradually incorporate the latent space structure constraint. It’s like
teaching someone to draw by first letting them focus on getting the
shapes right, then gradually introducing rules about composition and
style.
During training, we can monitor both loss components separately to
understand how our model is learning. If the reconstruction loss

--- Strana 960 ---
plateaus while the KL divergence continues to decrease, we might
be over-regularizing with too large a . If the KL divergence remains
high while reconstruction loss drops quickly, we might need to
increase  to encourage better latent space structure. The interplay
between these loss components also affects how we interpret and
use our trained VAE. A model trained with lower  will have more
detailed reconstructions but might require more careful sampling
strategies for generation. A model trained with higher  will generate
more coherent samples from random latent space samples but might
sacrifice some reconstruction fidelity. Understanding this balance
helps us design VAE training strategies that align with our specific
goals. Whether we’re building a VAE for data compression, anomaly
detection, or creative generation, the choice of  and our loss
balancing strategy becomes a key design decision that shapes our
model’s capabilities and limitations.
11.2.3    Variational Autoencoder Implementation in
Keras
After understanding the probabilistic foundations and mathematical
framework behind VAEs, let’s build one from scratch using Keras.
We’ll work with the CIFAR-10 dataset, which provides a rich
collection of 32×32 color images across 10 different classes. This
dataset offers more complexity than MNIST while remaining
manageable for our learning purposes. Our implementation begins
with the essential data preparation step as shown in Listing 11.9.

--- Strana 961 ---
After importing the necessary libraries (omitted here for brevity), we
load and preprocess our dataset. As always, you can refer to the
complete code listing on the book resources page at
https://recluze.net/keras-book in the notebook 11-03-vaes.
# Load CIFAR-10 dataset
(x_train, y_train), (x_test, y_test) = \
                   keras.datasets.cifar10.load_data()
# Normalize pixel values to [0, 1]
x_train = x_train.astype('float32') / 255.0
x_test = x_test.astype('float32') / 255.0
print(f"Training data shape: {x_train.shape}")
print(f"Test data shape: {x_test.shape}")
print(f"Training labels shape: {y_train.shape}")
# CIFAR-10 class names
class_names = ['airplane', 'automobile', 'bird', 'cat', 'deer',
               'dog', 'frog', 'horse', 'ship', 'truck']  
Listing 11.9     Data Preparation for VAEs
Data Preparation and Sampling
The CIFAR-10 images come as integers ranging from 0 to 255, but
our VAE expects floating-point values between 0 and 1. This
normalization serves multiple purposes beyond simple scaling.
When we divide by 255, we’re ensuring that our neural network
receives inputs in a range that promotes stable training. Networks
generally perform better when inputs are scaled to reasonable

--- Strana 962 ---
ranges, preventing any single feature from dominating the learning
process due to its magnitude. This is especially relevant here due to
the KL divergence term used in the loss function.
The choice of normalization range matters significantly for VAEs. We
could have normalized to [-1, 1], which would require a tanh
activation in our decoder’s final layer instead of sigmoid. The [0, 1]
range pairs naturally with sigmoid activation, while [-1, 1] works well
with tanh. Both approaches are valid, but consistency between
preprocessing and final activation is crucial. If you use [0, 1]
normalization with tanh activation, your decoder will struggle to
reconstruct images properly because tanh outputs values between
-1 and 1, while your target images are scaled between 0 and 1.
With our data prepared, we now tackle one of the most crucial
components of our VAE: the sampling layer. This custom layer
embodies the reparameterization trick we discussed in our
mathematical framework earlier. In the complete code listing
provided with the book, you’ll find additional visualization code for
exploring the dataset, but our focus here is on this essential
architectural component. The sampling layer (shown in Listing 11.10)
represents the bridge between our encoder’s deterministic outputs
and the probabilistic sampling we need for generation. Remember
from our probabilistic approach discussion that we can’t simply
sample randomly from a distribution and expect gradient descent to
work. We need a way to make the randomness differentiable, and
that’s exactly what this layer accomplishes.

--- Strana 963 ---
The heart of this implementation lies in the final line: z_mean +
ops.exp(0.5 * z_log_var) * epsilon. This single expression
encapsulates the reparameterization trick. Instead of sampling
directly from a normal distribution with mean z_mean and variance
exp(z_log_var), we sample from a standard normal distribution
(epsilon) and then transform it. The randomness comes from
epsilon, while the learned parameters (z_mean and z_log_var) control
how this randomness gets shaped into our desired distribution. An
alternative implementation choice involves the noise distribution. We
use standard normal distribution (mean 0, variance 1), but we could
experiment with other distributions. Some researchers have explored
uniform distributions or even learned noise patterns. However, the
mathematical framework of VAEs assumes Gaussian distributions,
so deviating from this assumption requires careful consideration of
how it affects the KL divergence calculation.
class Sampling(layers.Layer):
    def __init__(self, **kwargs):
        super().__init__(**kwargs)
        self.seed_generator = keras.random.SeedGenerator(1337)
    def call(self, inputs):
        z_mean, z_log_var = inputs
        batch = ops.shape(z_mean)[0]
        dim = ops.shape(z_mean)[1]
        epsilon = keras.random.normal(
            shape=(batch, dim),
            seed=self.seed_generator

--- Strana 964 ---
        )
        return z_mean + ops.exp(0.5 * z_log_var) * epsilon  
Listing 11.10     Creating the Sampling Layer for the VAE
Encoders, Decoders and Everything Around Them
Next is the encoder-decoder part. Our encoder serves as the first
half of our VAE, transforming raw pixel data into the probability
distributions we discussed in our mathematical framework. This
network must compress a 32×32×3 image (3,072 dimensions) into
meaningful representations while outputting not just a single
encoding but the parameters of a probability distribution. The
architecture, shown in Listing 11.11, follows a classic convolutional
pattern: We progressively increase the number of filters while
reducing spatial dimensions. Starting with 32 filters and doubling
through 64, 128, and finally 256 creates a hierarchical feature
extraction system as always.
The combination of BatchNormalization and LeakyReLU deserves
special attention. Batch normalization stabilizes training by
normalizing inputs to each layer, preventing the internal covariate
shift that can slow learning. LeakyReLU allows small negative values
to pass through (typically with a slope of 0.01), preventing the dying
ReLU problem where neurons can become permanently inactive.
We could use standard ReLU, but LeakyReLU provides more robust
gradient flow during training.

--- Strana 965 ---
After the convolutional tower, we flatten the feature maps into the
bottleneck through successive downsampling. This bottleneck layer
forces the network to distill the most important information before
generating our distribution parameters.
Finally, our encoder returns three outputs: the mean, log variance,
and a sampled latent vector. This design allows flexibility during
inference—we can use the mean for deterministic encoding or the
sampled vector for generation. During training, we use all three
outputs: the sampled vector for reconstruction loss and the mean
and log variance for the KL divergence term in our loss function.
def build_encoder(latent_dim=128):
    """Build the encoder network for VAE."""
    encoder_inputs = keras.Input(shape=(32, 32, 3))
    x = layers.Conv2D(32, 3, padding="same")(encoder_inputs)
    x = layers.BatchNormalization()(x) # Add Batch 
Normalization
    x = layers.LeakyReLU()(x) # Consider LeakyReLU
    x = layers.Conv2D(64, 3, strides=2, padding="same")(x)
    x = layers.BatchNormalization()(x)
    x = layers.LeakyReLU()(x)
    x = layers.Conv2D(128, 3, strides=2, padding="same")(x)
    x = layers.BatchNormalization()(x)
    x = layers.LeakyReLU()(x)
    x = layers.Conv2D(256, 3, strides=2, padding="same")(x)
    x = layers.BatchNormalization()(x)
    x = layers.LeakyReLU()(x)
    x = layers.Flatten()(x)
    x = layers.Dense(512)(x)

--- Strana 966 ---
    x = layers.BatchNormalization()(x)
    x = layers.LeakyReLU()(x)
    z_mean = layers.Dense(latent_dim, name="z_mean")(x)
    z_log_var = layers.Dense(latent_dim, name="z_log_var")(x)
    z = Sampling()([z_mean, z_log_var])
    encoder = Model(encoder_inputs, [z_mean, z_log_var, z], 
name="encoder")
    return encoder  
Listing 11.11     Encoder Architecture for VAE
The decoder, shown in Listing 11.12, performs the mirror of our
encoder, taking our compressed latent representation and breathing
life back into it as a full image. It starts with a 128-dimensional vector
and carefully expanding it back into a 32×32×3 image.
Transpose convolutions (sometimes called deconvolutions) work by
inserting learned patterns between existing pixels. With stride=2,
each pixel in our input becomes a 2×2 region in the output,
effectively doubling both width and height. The network learns what
patterns to insert, guided by the reconstruction loss that compares
the final output to the original image.
The final layer deserves special attention. We use a transpose
convolution with only three filters (matching our RGB channels) and
sigmoid activation. The sigmoid activation ensures our output values
stay between 0 and 1, matching our normalized input data. This final
layer has no batch normalization or additional activation—it directly

--- Strana 967 ---
produces our reconstructed image. The design choices we
discussed for the encoder (batch normalization, LeakyReLU, filter
progressions) remain relevant here. One crucial architectural
decision involves symmetry. Our decoder roughly mirrors the
encoder’s structure, but perfect symmetry isn’t required (similar to
what we mentioned in our design decisions for autoencoders earlier
in this chapter). We could use different filter counts, kernel sizes, or
even different upsampling strategies. Some modern VAE
architectures use asymmetric designs where the decoder has more
capacity than the encoder, allowing for higher-quality
reconstructions.
def build_decoder(latent_dim=128):
    """Build the decoder network for VAE."""
    latent_inputs = keras.Input(shape=(latent_dim,))
    x = layers.Dense(2 * 2 * 256)(latent_inputs)
    x = layers.BatchNormalization()(x)
    x = layers.LeakyReLU()(x)
    x = layers.Reshape((2, 2, 256))(x)
    x = layers.Conv2DTranspose(256, 3, strides=2, 
padding="same")(x)
    x = layers.BatchNormalization()(x)
    x = layers.LeakyReLU()(x)
    x = layers.Conv2DTranspose(128, 3, strides=2, 
padding="same")(x)
    x = layers.BatchNormalization()(x)
    x = layers.LeakyReLU()(x)
    x = layers.Conv2DTranspose(64, 3, strides=2, 
padding="same")(x)

--- Strana 968 ---
    x = layers.BatchNormalization()(x)
    x = layers.LeakyReLU()(x)
    x = layers.Conv2DTranspose(32, 3, strides=2, 
padding="same")(x)
    x = layers.BatchNormalization()(x)
    x = layers.LeakyReLU()(x)
    decoder_outputs = layers.Conv2DTranspose(
        3, 3, activation="sigmoid", padding="same"
    )(x)
    decoder = Model(latent_inputs, decoder_outputs, 
name="decoder")
    return decoder  
Listing 11.12     Decoder Architecture for VAE
The Training Process
The training of both the encoder and decoder happens through the
train_step function shown in Listing 11.13. This function is the heart
of our VAE, where all the theoretical concepts we’ve discussed
transform into actual learning. This method is part of our custom VAE
class (with boilerplate code omitted for brevity—you can find the
complete implementation in the book’s resource page as mentioned
earlier). Every time our model sees a batch of data, this function runs
the learning process, balancing the dual objectives that make VAEs
so powerful. It begins with the input data that travels through our
encoder, producing the three crucial outputs we designed: mean
vectors, log-variance vectors, and sampled latent representations.

--- Strana 969 ---
These sampled vectors then pass through our decoder to create
reconstructed images. For the reconstruction loss, we use binary
cross-entropy instead of MSE, treating each pixel as an independent
Bernoulli random variable. This might seem counterintuitive—after
all, pixels are continuous values, not binary outcomes. However,
because our data is normalized to [0,1] and our decoder uses
sigmoid activation, we can interpret pixel intensities as probabilities.
Binary cross-entropy often produces sharper, more realistic
reconstructions compared to MSE, which tends to create blurry
images.
Our KL divergence implementation directly translates the
mathematical formula we derived earlier. The expression -0.5 * (1 +
z_log_var - ops.square(z_mean) - ops.exp(z_log_var)) computes the
KL divergence between our learned distribution and a standard
normal distribution for each latent dimension. We sum across latent
dimensions for each sample and then average across the batch. The
beta parameter is the crucial hyperparameter that controls the
balance between reconstruction quality and latent space structure.
Our loss tracking system monitors three separate components: total
loss, reconstruction loss, and KL loss. This granular monitoring
proves invaluable during training, allowing us to observe how each
component evolves and identify potential issues such as KL collapse
(where KL loss approaches zero) or reconstruction failure.
Alternatively, possible loss formulations include using different
divergences (Wasserstein, Maximum Mean Discrepancy (MMD))

--- Strana 970 ---
instead of KL divergence or implementing curriculum learning where
the beta parameter changes during training. Some practitioners use
cyclical annealing, gradually increasing beta from 0 to 1 over multiple
epochs to encourage better latent space organization.
def train_step(self, data):
    with tf.GradientTape() as tape:
        z_mean, z_log_var, z = self.encoder(data)
        reconstruction = self.decoder(z)
         reconstruction_loss = ops.mean(
            ops.sum(
                keras.losses.binary_crossentropy(
                    data, reconstruction
                ),
                axis=(1, 2)
            )
        )
        kl_loss = -0.5 * (1 + z_log_var - ops.square(z_mean)
                              - ops.exp(z_log_var))
        kl_loss = ops.mean(ops.sum(kl_loss, axis=1))
        # Apply beta to KL loss
        total_loss = reconstruction_loss + self.beta * kl_loss
    grads = tape.gradient(total_loss, self.trainable_weights)
    self.optimizer.apply_gradients(
        zip(grads, self.trainable_weights)
    )
    self.total_loss_tracker.update_state(total_loss)
    self.reconstruction_loss_tracker.update_state(
                                           reconstruction_loss)
    self.kl_loss_tracker.update_state(kl_loss)

--- Strana 971 ---
    return {
        "loss": self.total_loss_tracker.result(),
        "reconstruction_loss": 
                       
self.reconstruction_loss_tracker.result(),
        "kl_loss": self.kl_loss_tracker.result(),
    }  
Listing 11.13     Training the VAE
In the full code listing, we also include a test_step function that
performs essentially the same procedure. We’re omitting that
function here to save some space. It’s highly recommended that you
read through the full code though.
Analysis of the Results
With all our architectural pieces in place, we now assemble them into
a complete, trainable system. Our VAE instantiation shown in the two
brief lines of Listing 11.14 brings together the encoder and decoder
we’ve carefully constructed, with that beta parameter set to 0.001.
This small value tells our model to prioritize sharp, detailed
reconstructions over perfectly organized latent spaces. The Adam
optimizer with a learning rate of 1e-4 provides our training engine.
This relatively conservative learning rate ensures stable training for
our complex dual-objective system. VAEs can be sensitive to
learning rates because they’re balancing two competing goals, and
rushing this process often leads to training instability.

--- Strana 972 ---
# Create VAE model
vae = VAE(encoder, decoder, beta=0.001) 
vae.compile(optimizer=keras.optimizers.Adam(learning_rate=1e-
4))  
Listing 11.14     Construction and Compilation of the VAE Model
The training curves show healthy VAE learning dynamics in
Figure 11.4. The reconstruction loss steadily decreases, indicating
the model is learning to recreate images more accurately. The KL
divergence loss exhibits more volatility but generally trends
downward, showing the latent space is organizing while maintaining
some stochasticity essential for generation. The gap between
training and validation losses remains small across all metrics,
suggesting good generalization without overfitting. The KL loss’s
higher variability is typical for VAEs because it measures how well
the learned distributions match the prior, which involves inherent
randomness from the sampling process.
With beta = 0.001, the reconstruction loss dominates the total loss
(contributing ~572 vs. ~0.47 from KL), explaining why
reconstructions should be quite sharp while still maintaining a
structured latent space for generation.
Figure 11.4     Training Curves of Reconstruction Loss and KL Loss

--- Strana 973 ---
The reconstruction results shown in Figure 11.5 reveal a
characteristic limitation of VAEs: The reconstructed images appear
noticeably blurry compared to their crisp originals. While our model
successfully captures the essential structure and colors of each
object—the shades in the cat’s fur, the shape of the ships’ hulls, the
airplane’s general shape—the fine details have been smoothed
away. This blurriness stems from the probabilistic nature of VAEs
and our choice of reconstruction loss. Binary cross-entropy
encourages the model to predict the average of all possible pixel
values that could appear in similar contexts. When the model
encounters uncertainty about specific details, it hedges its bets by
outputting intermediate values rather than committing to sharp edges
or fine textures.
We’ll discuss briefly why this happens as it will help you develop an
appreciation of the more modern models that solve these issues.
The reconstruction loss penalizes large deviations from the original,
but it treats all pixel errors equally. A model that outputs a slightly
gray pixel instead of choosing between black or white receives a
smaller penalty than one that makes a definitive but occasionally

--- Strana 974 ---
wrong choice. This leads to the characteristic averaging effect that
produces blurry reconstructions.
Figure 11.5     Image Generation Through the VAE
This fundamental limitation of VAEs points toward an exciting
alternative approach that we’ll explore in our next section on
Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs). Instead of trying to
reconstruct images by minimizing pixel-wise differences, GANs take
a radically different approach: they learn to generate images that are
indistinguishable from real ones, even if they don’t match any
specific training example pixel-for-pixel. This adversarial training
paradigm often produces much sharper, more realistic images at the
cost of some other trade-offs we’ll discover. But let’s first do
something interesting with our VAE implementation.
Generating Novel Images from Scratch
We can now use our trained VAE’s latent vectors to generate entirely
new images. The interpolation function shown in Listing 11.15
demonstrates this generative capability by creating smooth
transitions between different images through latent space travel. This

--- Strana 975 ---
process reveals the continuous, structured nature of the
representations our model has learned. The function works by first
encoding both input images into their latent representations using
the mean vectors (z_mean) rather than random samples for
consistency. It then creates a series of intermediate points along the
“straight line” connecting these two points in the 128-dimensional
latent space.
The interpolation uses linear blending (1 - alpha) * z_mean1 + alpha *
z_mean2, where alpha progresses from 0 to 1 across the specified
number of steps. When alpha equals 0, we get the first image’s
encoding; when alpha equals 1, we get the second image’s
encoding. Values in between create weighted combinations of both
encodings.
Each interpolated latent vector gets decoded back into image space,
producing a sequence of images that smoothly morph from the first
input to the second. This demonstrates that the latent space has
learned meaningful geometric structure—points that are close
together in latent space correspond to visually similar images,
making linear interpolation produce sensible intermediate images
rather than random noise.
def interpolate_images(vae, img1, img2, n_steps=10):
    # Encode both images
    z_mean1, _, _ = vae.encoder.predict(i1.reshape(1, 32, 32, 
3))
    z_mean2, _, _ = vae.encoder.predict(i2.reshape(1, 32, 32, 
3))

--- Strana 976 ---
    # Create interpolation points
    interpolated_latents = []
    for i in range(n_steps):
        alpha = i / (n_steps - 1)
        interpolated_z = (1 - alpha) * z_mean1 + alpha * 
z_mean2
        interpolated_latents.append(interpolated_z)
    interpolated_latents = np.vstack(interpolated_latents)
    # Decode interpolated latent vectors
    interpolated_images = vae.decoder.predict(
                                         interpolated_latents)
    return interpolated_images
# Select two different images for interpolation
img1 = x_test[1]  # First test image (try 0)
img2 = x_test[6]  # Different test image (try 100)
interpolated = interpolate_images(vae, img1, img2, n_steps=10)  
Listing 11.15     Interpolating Between Two Points in Latent Space
The interpolation results can be seen in Figure 11.6. They clearly
show a gradual transition from what appears to be a ship to a more
car-like object, with the background and overall structure changing
smoothly across the sequence. However, the persistent blurriness
we observed in reconstructions carries over to these generated
images as well.

--- Strana 977 ---
This limitation points us toward our next exploration. While VAEs
excel at learning structured latent spaces for interpolation and
generation, there are other models that approach the generation
problem from a fundamentally different angle that often produces
much sharper, more realistic images. Instead of reconstructing pixel-
by-pixel, these models learn to fool a discriminator network, leading
to crisp details that VAEs struggle to achieve. Let’s take a look at
these next.
Figure 11.6     Results of Interpolation Between a Boat and Car
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 978 ---
11.3    Generative Adversarial Networks
While VAEs opened up new possibilities for generating data by
introducing probabilistic approaches to encoding, they had their
limitations. The generated samples often appeared blurry or lacked
the sharp, realistic details we see in actual data. For years, this
remained a persistent challenge in generative modeling. Then, in
2014, Ian Goodfellow introduced Generative Adversarial Networks
(GANs), which revolutionized the field by turning generation into a
competitive game. The breakthrough came from reframing the entire
problem. Instead of trying to explicitly model the probability
distribution of our data (as VAEs do), GANs pit two neural networks
against each other in an adversarial contest. This competitive
dynamic drives both networks to improve continuously, resulting in
generated samples that can be remarkably realistic.
In this section, we’ll first introduce what adversarial means and then
discuss how we can implement these game-like dynamics to help the
machines learn on their own.
11.3.1    The Adversarial Game
Picture this scenario: Alex wants to perfectly mimic their friend Chris’s
voice over the phone. Jordan, who knows Chris well, serves as the
judge. Alex’s goal is simple: Fool Jordan into believing they’re actually

--- Strana 979 ---
talking to Chris. Jordan’s job is equally clear: Determine whether the
voice belongs to the real Chris or is Alex’s imitation.
This exact dynamic captures the essence of how GANs work. Alex
represents the generator network, whose job is creating fake data
that looks as real as possible. Jordan acts as the discriminator
network, which must distinguish between real data and the
generator’s fabrications.
Let’s follow Alex and Jordan through their adversarial game. Initially,
Alex’s voice imitation is terrible. When Alex calls Jordan pretending to
be Chris, Jordan immediately recognizes the deception. “That’s
definitely not Chris,” Jordan says, “your voice is too high-pitched,
you’re speaking too slowly, and you’re not using Chris’s usual
expressions.” Alex takes this feedback seriously. The next attempt
involves lowering the voice and speaking faster. This time, Jordan
hesitates for a moment but still catches the imitation. “Better,” Jordan
admits, “but Chris never pronounces certain words that way, and the
rhythm is still off.”
Through repeated attempts, something remarkable happens. Alex’s
imitations become increasingly sophisticated, incorporating not just
Chris’s vocal patterns but also speech rhythms, favorite phrases, and
even subtle breathing patterns. Meanwhile, Jordan becomes more
discerning, developing an increasingly keen ear for the subtle
differences that separate the real Chris from even the best imitations.
This back-and-forth process drives both participants to excel. Alex
learns to generate increasingly convincing imitations, while Jordan
develops superhuman abilities to detect even the most sophisticated

--- Strana 980 ---
fakes. The competition pushes both to heights neither could reach
alone. While Alex might eventually hit physical limits on how much
their voice can change, neural networks face no such constraints. As
long as the discriminator continues providing feedback signals, the
generator can keep refining its approach indefinitely. Neural networks
can adjust their millions of parameters with each training step,
allowing for improvements that go far beyond what any human mimic
could achieve.
This adversarial relationship draws from game theory, specifically
what’s called a minimax game. In such games, one player tries to
minimize their losses while the other tries to maximize their gains.
The elegance of this setup is that both players improve
simultaneously through their competition. In our voice mimicry
example, Alex wants to maximize the probability of fooling Jordan
(minimizing Jordan’s ability to detect fakes), while Jordan wants to
maximize accuracy in distinguishing real Chris from Alex’s imitations
(minimizing Alex’s success rate). Neither player can improve without
forcing the other to become better as well.
The mathematical formulation captures this elegantly. The generator
tries to minimize a loss function while the discriminator tries to
maximize the same function. This creates a dynamic equilibrium
where both networks push each other toward better performance.
Unlike traditional machine learning where we have a fixed target to
reach, GANs create a moving target that constantly evolves. What
makes this particularly powerful is that the discriminator essentially
becomes a learned loss function. Instead of us having to design a

--- Strana 981 ---
specific way to measure how “real” generated data looks, the
discriminator learns this evaluation process. It’s like having Jordan
develop an increasingly sophisticated understanding of what makes
Chris’s voice unique, rather than giving Jordan a checklist of features
to look for.
Why does adversarial training work so well for generation? The
adversarial approach solves several fundamental problems that
plagued earlier generative models. Traditional approaches often
struggled with generating sharp, detailed outputs because they relied
on loss functions that averaged over many possibilities. When you
average multiple potential outputs, you typically get something blurry
or generic. Consider what happens when Alex first starts learning to
mimic Chris. If Alex tried to sound like “an average person” rather
than specifically like Chris, the result would be a generic,
unmemorable voice that doesn’t fool anyone. The adversarial training
forces Alex to focus on the specific characteristics that make Chris’s
voice distinctive. The discriminator provides incredibly rich feedback
compared to traditional loss functions. Instead of a simple numerical
score, it’s providing detailed information about what makes generated
samples unconvincing. When Jordan tells Alex, “Your voice is too
high-pitched,” that’s much more actionable feedback than simply
saying “Try again.”
This rich feedback mechanism allows the generator to learn complex,
high-dimensional distributions. The discriminator essentially learns to
encode all the subtle patterns that make real data look real, then

--- Strana 982 ---
provides this knowledge to the generator through their adversarial
interaction.
The adversarial training also naturally handles the challenge of mode
coverage. In our voice example, Chris might speak differently when
excited, tired, or talking about different topics. Traditional approaches
might focus on one particular “mode” of Chris’s voice. But Jordan will
catch Alex if the imitation only works for one type of conversation.
This forces Alex to learn the full range of Chris’s vocal patterns.
Perhaps most importantly, the adversarial approach pushes
generated samples toward the boundary of what’s realistic.
Traditional methods often generate “safe” outputs that clearly look
artificial. But Alex succeeds only by pushing the imitation as close as
possible to the real thing. This boundary-pushing behavior leads to
the sharp (albeit small), realistic outputs that made GANs famous.
The dynamic nature of the training means that the generator never
gets to rest on past successes. The generator must continuously
improve as the discriminator becomes more sophisticated. This
ongoing pressure drives both networks toward increasingly
impressive performance. Through this adversarial dance, GANs
achieve something remarkable: They learn to generate data that can
be virtually indistinguishable from real examples. The competition that
seemed like a simple game between Alex and Jordan becomes a
powerful machine learning paradigm that has transformed how we
approach generative modeling.

--- Strana 983 ---
11.3.2    Generative Adversarial Network Architecture
Now that we understand the adversarial game between generator
and discriminator let’s examine how these competing networks are
actually built. Just as Alex and Jordan each needed specific skills for
their voice mimicry contest, the generator and discriminator networks
require carefully designed architectures to excel at their respective
tasks. The beauty of GANs lies in their architectural simplicity
combined with their training complexity. While each network can be
relatively straightforward in design, the strength emerges from how
they interact and evolve together. Understanding their individual
architectures helps us appreciate why this adversarial approach
works so effectively. The architecture of a vanilla GAN is shown in
Figure 11.7. The generator creates some data, and the discriminator
tries to classify it as being real or fake without requiring any other
labels. We feed real and fake data to the discriminator and calculate
the loss based on correct (or incorrect) classification. Let’s discuss
the details of this simple but elegant design in detail.
Figure 11.7     Architecture of a Vanilla GAN

--- Strana 984 ---
Generator Network Design Principles
The generator network faces a unique challenge in that it must
transform random noise into realistic data. Consider Alex starting with
nothing but static and somehow crafting it into Chris’s convincing
voice. This transformation requires a network architecture that can
progressively build complexity from simple beginnings. Most
generator networks follow an expansive design, starting small and
growing larger. The generator typically starts with a low-dimensional
noise or latent vector z sampled from a simple distribution. This
random input serves as the creative seed from which all generated
samples emerge. The network then progressively upsamples this
noise through a series of layers, each one adding more spatial
resolution and complexity. For image generation, this often involves
transpose convolutions, which increase the spatial dimensions while
the network learns to fill in meaningful details.
The key insight is that each layer should learn to represent features
at different scales of detail. Early layers might establish basic
structure and layout, while later layers add fine textures and sharp
details. This hierarchical approach mirrors how we might describe a
face: first the overall shape, then the placement of features, and
finally the subtle details that make each face unique.
The generator’s architecture must also consider the target data’s
characteristics. Generating high-resolution images requires different
design choices than generating text or audio. For images,
convolutional layers excel at capturing spatial relationships. For

--- Strana 985 ---
sequential data such as text, recurrent or transformer architectures
(covered in Chapter 9) become more appropriate.
One critical design principle involves the network’s capacity. The
generator needs enough parameters to capture the complexity of real
data but not so many that training becomes unstable. Finding this
balance requires experimentation and careful monitoring of training
dynamics.
Discriminator as a Binary Classifier
While the generator builds complexity from simplicity, the
discriminator performs the opposite task: It must distill complex data
down to a single binary decision. Is this sample real or fake? The
discriminator architecture typically mirrors traditional convolutional
neural networks used for image classification. It progressively
downsamples input data through convolutional layers, extracting
increasingly abstract features until reaching a final classification layer.
Each layer learns to detect patterns at different levels of abstraction.
Early layers might detect simple edges and textures, while deeper
layers recognize more complex patterns and relationships. The final
layer outputs a single probability value through a sigmoid activation.
The discriminator’s loss function follows standard binary cross-
entropy:

--- Strana 986 ---
Here, x represents real data samples, z is the random noise input to
the generator, G( z) produces fake samples, and D outputs the
discriminator’s probability that a sample is real. This loss encourages
the discriminator to output high values (close to 1) for real samples
and low values (close to 0) for generated samples. The discriminator
succeeds when it can reliably distinguish between real and fake data.
However, the discriminator faces a unique challenge that standard
classifiers don’t encounter: Its training data constantly evolves. As the
generator improves, the “fake” samples become increasingly
sophisticated. This problem is similar to the well-known concept of
covariate shift.
[ ! ]  The Covariate Shift Problem
Covariate shift occurs when the distribution of input features
changes between training and deployment, even though the
relationship between inputs and outputs remains the same. This
phenomenon poses a significant challenge in modern machine
learning, where models trained on one dataset may encounter very
different data distributions in real-world applications. For example,
a model trained on daytime images might struggle with nighttime
photos, or a recommendation system built on historical user
behavior may fail when user preferences evolve. Covariate shift
becomes particularly problematic in deep learning models, which
can be sensitive to these distribution changes despite their
apparent robustness. Addressing this challenge has led to
important techniques such as domain adaptation, transfer learning,

--- Strana 987 ---
and robust training methods that help models maintain
performance when deployed in environments different from their
training conditions.
This evolving challenge requires the discriminator to continuously
adapt and improve. Unlike traditional classification, where the data
distribution remains fixed, GAN training presents the discriminator
with progressively harder examples. This dynamic difficulty
adjustment drives the discriminator to develop increasingly nuanced
understanding of what makes data authentic. Moreover, the
discriminator’s architecture must balance several competing
demands. It needs enough capacity to detect sophisticated fakes but
not so much that it memorizes the training set. It should be powerful
enough to provide useful feedback to the generator but not so
powerful that it becomes impossible to fool, which would halt the
generator’s improvement.
Training Dynamics and the Minimax Game
The mathematical foundation of GAN training emerges from game
theory, specifically the minimax framework. The generator and
discriminator engage in a zero-sum game where one player’s gain
directly corresponds to the other’s loss. This creates the competitive
dynamic that drives both networks toward better performance.
The complete GAN objective function captures this adversarial
relationship:

--- Strana 988 ---
In this formulation, V( D, G) represents the value function that both
networks compete over, with the discriminator D trying to maximize it
while the generator G tries to minimize it. The two expectation terms
correspond to the discriminator’s performance on real data and
generated data, respectively. The discriminator maximizes this
objective by correctly classifying real samples and fake samples.
Meanwhile, the generator minimizes the same objective by creating
samples that fool the discriminator. This minimax formulation creates
very interesting training dynamics. In the ideal scenario, training
reaches a Nash equilibrium where neither network can improve
further without the other adapting. The generator produces samples
indistinguishable from real data, while the discriminator can only
guess randomly, achieving 50% accuracy.
However, reaching this equilibrium proves challenging in practice.
The training process resembles a delicate balancing act where both
partners must move at compatible rates. If one network advances too
quickly, the training becomes unbalanced and unstable.
Consider what happens when the discriminator becomes too powerful
too quickly. It perfectly identifies all generated samples as fake,
providing no useful gradient information to the generator. The
generator receives only negative feedback without guidance on how
to improve.
Conversely, if the generator advances too rapidly, it might fool a weak
discriminator easily, but this success proves hollow. The generator

--- Strana 989 ---
learns to exploit the discriminator’s specific weaknesses rather than
learning to generate truly realistic data. When tested against a
stronger discriminator or real-world evaluation, these generated
samples fail dramatically. Successful GAN training requires careful
balance between these competing forces. Practitioners often adjust
learning rates independently for each network, sometimes training
one network multiple times per iteration to maintain equilibrium. The
generator might train with a higher learning rate to keep pace with a
naturally stronger discriminator, or the discriminator might train less
frequently to prevent overwhelming the generator. The training
process also involves careful monitoring of loss values, but
interpreting these losses differs from traditional supervised learning.
In GANs, loss values don’t necessarily decrease monotonically
toward zero. Instead, we look for stable oscillations that indicate
healthy competition between the networks.
This ongoing competition drives GANs toward generating remarkably
realistic data, but it also makes training more complex and
unpredictable than traditional approaches. Understanding these
dynamics helps us appreciate both the power and the challenges of
adversarial training, setting the stage for examining practical
implementation strategies and common pitfalls.
11.3.3    Other Variations
While our exploration of GAN architecture gives us the theoretical
foundation, there are two specific variant that deserves attention

--- Strana 990 ---
before we jump into implementation. The first of these is Deep
Convolutional GANs (DCGANs). These represent one of the most
successful GAN architectures, particularly for image generation. The
original GAN formulation left many architectural decisions open,
leading to training instability and poor results. DCGANs emerged as a
set of proven guidelines that consistently work better. The key insight
lies in leveraging spatial structure through convolutional layers. Just
as an artist paints a landscape with broad strokes first, then adds fine
details, DCGANs build images hierarchically. Early layers establish
basic spatial relationships, while later layers refine intricate details.
DCGANs introduce specific constraints that distinguish them from
general GANs. The most significant change replaces fully connected
layers with convolutional operations throughout both networks.
Moving beyond DCGANs, the second important variation that
addresses a fundamental limitation: control over what gets generated.
Auxiliary Classifier GANs (ACGANs) represent a powerful extension
that bridges the gap between random generation and purposeful
creation. Basic GANs and DCGANs generate samples from learned
data distributions, but they offer no direct control over what type of
sample emerges. If you’re generating handwritten digits, you can’t
specify whether you want a 3 or an 8. ACGANs solve this by
incorporating class information directly into both the generation and
discrimination processes. The key insight is treating generation as
both a creative and classification task. The discriminator job here isn’t
simply to determine if a sample is real or fake. It must also identify
what class the sample belongs to. This dual responsibility creates

--- Strana 991 ---
richer feedback signals that guide the generator toward more
structured and controllable outputs. Take a look at Figure 11.8 for the
architecture of ACGANs and compare it with the architecture of GANs
shown earlier in Figure 11.7.
Figure 11.8     Architecture of ACGANs
ACGANs modify both networks to handle class-conditional
generation. The generator receives two inputs: the familiar noise
vector and a class selector. The discriminator performs dual
classification, outputting both authenticity and class predictions.
The loss function becomes more sophisticated, combining the
adversarial loss with classification accuracy as
where 
 is the standard GAN loss and 
 is the classification loss
for correctly identifying classes in both real and generated samples.
ACGANs provide controllable generation similar to how we discussed
VAEs organizing their latent space meaningfully. While VAEs create
continuous latent representations where nearby points generate

--- Strana 992 ---
similar outputs, ACGANs create discrete control through explicit class
conditioning. This conditioning allows for targeted generation—you
can specify exactly what type of sample you want rather than hoping
random sampling produces something useful. The class information
acts like a steering wheel for the generation process, directing the
creative energy toward specific outcomes.
The discriminator’s dual role on the other hand creates interesting
training dynamics. It must become expert at both detecting fakes and
classifying content, which typically results in better feature learning.
This improved feature extraction often leads to higher-quality
generated samples compared to standard GANs.
We’ve kept this architectural overview concise because hands-on
implementation reveals the true power of these techniques. ACGANs
demonstrate how GAN architectures can evolve to address specific
needs—in this case, the need for controllable generation.
11.3.4    Generative Adversarial Network Implementation
in Keras
Now that we understand the adversarial training framework and the
theoretical foundations of DCGANs and ACGANs, let’s build a
complete ACGAN implementation using Keras. Our implementation
will generate Fashion-MNIST images conditioned on specific clothing
categories such as shirts, bags, and shoes. Rather than simply
throwing together a basic generator and discriminator, we’ll construct
a sophisticated system that demonstrates the key architectural

--- Strana 993 ---
decisions that separate effective GANs from those that struggle with
training instability. We’ll tackle several critical design challenges that
every GAN practitioner encounters: how to structure the generator to
produce high-quality outputs, how to build a discriminator that
provides useful feedback without becoming too powerful, and how to
balance the adversarial training process to achieve stable
convergence. Our ACGAN will include class conditioning through
embedding layers, separate loss functions for authenticity and
classification, and carefully tuned hyperparameters that reflect
lessons learned from years of GAN research.
We’ll skip the preamble of the code that you can see in the full code
available in the resources page at https://recluze.net/keras-book in
the notebook 11-04-acgan-fashion-mnist. Let’s start with
Listing 11.16 that shows the core of the concepts—the generator. Our
generator function takes two distinct inputs that work together to
create the final output. The first input is our familiar random noise
vector with 100 dimensions, which provides the creative variability
that makes each generated image unique. The second input is a
class label—a single integer from 0 to 9 representing which Fashion-
MNIST category we want to generate. The class conditioning
happens through an embedding layer, which transforms each integer
label into a rich 128-dimensional vector representation. This
embedding approach gives our generator much more expressive
power than simply concatenating a one-hot encoded vector. The
embedding layer learns dense representations that capture
meaningful relationships between classes during training. For

--- Strana 994 ---
instance, it might learn that “shirt” and “pullover” share certain visual
characteristics, encoding this knowledge in similar embedding
vectors.
After flattening the embedding, we concatenate it with our noise
vector, creating a combined input of 228 dimensions (100 + 128).
This fusion allows the generator to modulate its creative process
based on the desired class while maintaining the randomness
necessary for generating diverse examples within each category. The
architecture then follows a carefully designed upsampling pathway.
Batch normalization appears after nearly every layer with a momentum
of 0.9, which is slightly stronger than the typical 0.99 default. This
choice reflects the unique challenges of GAN training, where we need
normalization that adapts more quickly to the changing distributions
that occur as both generator and discriminator evolve during
adversarial training. The higher momentum helps prevent the internal
covariate shift that can destabilize GAN training. Notice that we
disable bias terms (use_bias=False) in layers that are followed by
batch normalization. This design choice eliminates redundant
parameters because batch normalization includes its own learnable
bias term, making the layer’s bias unnecessary and potentially
harmful to training stability.
The final layer uses a tanh activation function, which constrains
outputs to the range [-1, 1]. This choice aligns with our data
preprocessing, where we normalized Fashion-MNIST pixel values
from [0, 255] to [-1, 1].

--- Strana 995 ---
def build_generator(latent_dim=100, num_classes=10):
    noise_input = layers.Input(shape=(latent_dim,))
    label_input = layers.Input(shape=(1,))
    label_embedding = layers.Embedding(num_classes, 128)
                                                   (label_input)
    label_embedding = layers.Flatten()(label_embedding)
    model_input = layers.Concatenate()
                                ([noise_input, label_embedding])
    x = layers.Dense(7 * 7 * 512, use_bias=False)(model_input)
    x = layers.BatchNormalization(momentum=0.9)(x)
    x = layers.ReLU()(x)
    x = layers.Reshape((7, 7, 512))(x)
    # Additional upsampling layer for gradual resolution 
increase
    x = layers.Conv2DTranspose(256, (4, 4), strides=(1, 1),
                              padding='same', use_bias=False)(x)
    x = layers.BatchNormalization(momentum=0.9)(x)
    x = layers.ReLU()(x)
    # Additional upsampling layers here 
    generated_image = layers.Conv2D(1, (3, 3), padding='same',
                            activation='tanh', use_bias=False)
(x)
    generator = Model([noise_input, label_input], 
                       generated_image,
                       name='generator')
    return generator

--- Strana 996 ---
generator = build_generator()
generator.summary()  
Listing 11.16     Generator for a GAN
While our generator creates images from noise and class labels, the
discriminator (see Listing 11.17) must perform the complementary
task of evaluating both the authenticity and class identity of input
images. This dual responsibility makes the ACGAN discriminator
more sophisticated than a standard GAN discriminator, requiring
careful architectural decisions to handle both classification tasks
effectively.
The discriminator begins with a crucial stability technique: Gaussian
noise injection directly at the input layer. Adding noise with a standard
deviation of 0.1 to incoming images prevents the discriminator from
becoming too confident about its predictions, which can lead to
training collapse. This technique essentially forces the discriminator
to make decisions based on broader patterns rather than memorizing
specific pixel arrangements, creating more robust gradients for the
generator to learn from. The architecture uses LeakyReLU activations
with a slope of 0.2 for negative inputs, contrasting with the standard
ReLU used in our generator. This choice addresses the dying ReLU
problem that can occur in discriminators, where neurons become
permanently inactive and stop contributing to the learning process.
LeakyReLU ensures that even negative inputs produce small
gradients, maintaining information flow throughout the network.

--- Strana 997 ---
A key architectural decision appears in the transition from
convolutional to dense layers: global average pooling instead of
flattening. We covered this type of pooling in detail in Chapter 7,
Section 7.2. This choice provides translation invariance, meaning the
discriminator’s decisions remain consistent regardless of where
features appear in the image. Global average pooling also
significantly reduces the parameter count compared to flattening a full
feature map, helping prevent overfitting.
[+]  Experiment with the Model
When you experiment with the full code, try modifying these design
decisions to look at the effect. You can start by changing the
pooling to a flatten layer to see the explosion in number of model
parameters. Other changes to these design decisions will also help
you understand their implications in depth.
The discriminator’s output structure reflects the ACGAN’s dual
objectives through separate branches after the shared feature
extraction layers. Both branches receive the same high-level features
but specialize in different tasks: the validity branch outputs a single
sigmoid-activated value representing the probability that the input is
real, while the label branch outputs a softmax distribution over the 10
Fashion-MNIST classes.
This branched architecture allows each task to develop specialized
representations while sharing the computational cost of early feature
extraction. Alternative approaches might use separate networks for

--- Strana 998 ---
each task, but the shared-trunk design is more parameter-efficient
and often performs better because authenticity and classification
tasks benefit from similar low-level feature representations.
def build_discriminator(num_classes=10):
    img_input = layers.Input(shape=(28, 28, 1))
    # Add noise to inputs for stability
    x = layers.GaussianNoise(0.1)(img_input)
    # First conv block
    x = layers.Conv2D(64, (4, 4), strides=(2, 2),
                     padding='same')(x)
    x = layers.LeakyReLU(0.2)(x)
    x = layers.Dropout(0.25)(x)
    # ... other Conv2D, global pooling and dense layers 
    # Separate branches for better feature learning
    validity_branch = layers.Dense(256)(x)
    validity_branch = layers.LeakyReLU(0.2)(validity_branch)
    validity = layers.Dense(1, activation='sigmoid')
                                           (validity_branch)
    label_branch = layers.Dense(256)(x)
    label_branch = layers.LeakyReLU(0.2)(label_branch)
    label = layers.Dense(num_classes, activation='softmax')
                                                 (label_branch)
    discriminator = Model(img_input, [validity, label],
                         name='discriminator')
    return discriminator  
Listing 11.17     Discriminator for the Fashion MNIST GAN

--- Strana 999 ---
With our generator and discriminator architectures defined, we need
to orchestrate their adversarial training through a custom training
loop, as shown in Listing 11.18. The ACGAN class inherits from
Keras’s Model class, allowing us to implement specialized adversarial
dynamics while leveraging the framework’s training infrastructure.
The discriminator evaluation creates an interesting dynamic: For real
images, we expect high validity scores and correct class predictions,
while for fake images, we want low validity scores but still accurate
class predictions based on their assigned labels. This forces the
discriminator to learn meaningful class representations rather than
detecting authenticity through class confusion.
def train_step(self, data):
        real_images, real_labels = data
        batch_size = tf.shape(real_images)[0]
        # Sample random noise and labels for generator
        noise = tf.random.normal([batch_size, self.latent_dim])
        fake_labels = tf.random.uniform([batch_size, 1],
                                       0, 10, dtype=tf.int32)
        # Generate fake images
        fake_images = self.generator([noise, fake_labels])
        # Train discriminator
        with tf.GradientTape() as tape:
            # Real images
            real_validity, real_pred_labels = 
self.discriminator(
                real_images)

--- Strana 1000 ---
            # Fake images
            fake_validity, fake_pred_labels = 
self.discriminator(
                fake_images)  
Listing 11.18     Training the GAN
Continuing the function train_step in Listing 11.19, the gradient tape
context begins our discriminator training phase, where we’ll calculate
losses for both the authenticity task and the classification task. The
discriminator training involves calculating four separate loss
components that reflect ACGAN’s dual objectives. The validity losses
use binary cross-entropy with perfect targets:
tf.ones_like(real_validity) for real images and
tf.zeros_like(fake_validity) for fake images. These targets
represent our ideal scenario where the discriminator assigns
probability 1.0 to real images and 0.0 to fake images.
The classification losses use sparse categorical cross-entropy for
both real and fake images. For real images, we compare predictions
against the true Fashion-MNIST labels. For fake images, we compare
against the randomly sampled labels we assigned during generation.
This creates the crucial ACGAN dynamic: The discriminator must
learn to classify fake images correctly according to their intended
class while still recognizing them as fake. Finally, the total
discriminator loss combines all four components with equal weighting:
d_loss = real_loss + fake_loss + real_class_loss + fake_class_loss.
This equal weighting assumes that authenticity detection and

--- Strana 1001 ---
classification are equally important, although you could adjust these
ratios based on your application’s priorities.
# ... continuing with the train_step function 
# Train discriminator
with tf.GradientTape() as tape:
    # Real images
    real_validity, real_pred_labels = self.discriminator(
                real_images)
    # Fake images
    fake_validity, fake_pred_labels = self.discriminator(
                fake_images)
    # Discriminator losses
    real_loss = self.loss_fn(tf.ones_like(real_validity),
                                   real_validity)
    fake_loss = self.loss_fn(tf.zeros_like(fake_validity),
                                   fake_validity)
    # Classification losses
    real_class_loss = losses.sparse_categorical_crossentropy(
                real_labels, real_pred_labels)
    fake_class_loss = losses.sparse_categorical_crossentropy(
                fake_labels, fake_pred_labels)
    d_loss = (real_loss + fake_loss +
                     real_class_loss + fake_class_loss)
d_gradient = tape.gradient(d_loss,
                        self.discriminator.trainable_variables)
self.d_optimizer.apply_gradients(
       zip(d_gradient, self.discriminator.trainable_variables))  
Listing 11.19     Training Step Continued

--- Strana 1002 ---
The generator training (covered in Listing 11.20) creates a second
gradient tape to calculate losses independently from the
discriminator. We regenerate fake images using the same noise and
labels, then evaluate them through the discriminator to get both
validity and classification predictions. The generator’s validity loss
uses tf.ones_like(fake_validity) as targets, representing the
generator’s goal to fool the discriminator into believing fake images
are real. This creates the adversarial dynamic: While the discriminator
tries to output 0.0 for fake images, the generator tries to make the
discriminator output 1.0.
The generator’s classification loss compares the discriminator’s class
predictions against the intended fake labels. This ensures the
generator doesn’t just create realistic-looking noise but produces
images that clearly belong to the specified class. The generator must
simultaneously fool the authenticity detector and satisfy the class
classifier. The equal weighting between gen_loss and gen_class_loss
balances realism and class fidelity. Alternative approaches include
weighting classification loss higher (twice or even four times) when
class conditioning is critical or using curriculum learning where
classification weight increases during training.
# Train generator
with tf.GradientTape() as tape:
    fake_images = self.generator([noise, fake_labels])
    fake_validity, fake_pred_labels = self.discriminator(
        fake_images)
    # Generator losses
    gen_loss = self.loss_fn(tf.ones_like(fake_validity),

--- Strana 1003 ---
                          fake_validity)
    gen_class_loss = 
keras.losses.sparse_categorical_crossentropy(
        fake_labels, fake_pred_labels)
    g_loss = gen_loss + gen_class_loss
g_gradient = tape.gradient(g_loss,
                          self.generator.trainable_variables)
self.g_optimizer.apply_gradients(
    zip(g_gradient, self.generator.trainable_variables))
# Update metrics
self.gen_loss_tracker.update_state(g_loss)
self.disc_loss_tracker.update_state(d_loss)
return {
    "g_loss": self.gen_loss_tracker.result(),
    "d_loss": self.disc_loss_tracker.result(),
}  
Listing 11.20     Training the Generator
With our custom ACGAN class defined, we instantiate it with our
generator and discriminator models, and then configure the training
parameters through compilation, as shown in Listing 11.21.
The optimizer configuration uses separate Adam optimizers with
different learning rates: 0.0004 for the discriminator and 0.0001 for the
generator. This 4:1 ratio helps balance the adversarial training by
slowing down the generator relative to the discriminator, preventing
the common problem where one network overwhelms the other. Both

--- Strana 1004 ---
optimizers use modified Adam parameters: beta_1=0.0 and
beta_2=0.9. Setting beta_1 to 0 disables momentum, which can
destabilize GAN training, while the higher beta_2 value maintains
adaptive learning rate benefits.
acgan = ACGAN(discriminator=discriminator, generator=generator)
# Compile model
acgan.compile(
    d_optimizer=keras.optimizers.Adam(
        learning_rate=0.0004,
        beta_1=0.0,
        beta_2=0.9
    ),
    g_optimizer=keras.optimizers.Adam(
        learning_rate=0.0001,
        beta_1=0.0,
        beta_2=0.9
    ),
    loss_fn=keras.losses.BinaryCrossentropy(label_smoothing=0.1)
)
EPOCHS = 20
history = acgan.fit(
    train_dataset,
    epochs=EPOCHS,
    callbacks=[ ... monitoring callbacks here ...],
    verbose=1
)  
Listing 11.21     Model Compilation and Hyperparameter Selection

--- Strana 1005 ---
With all that out of the way, we let the model run for a quite a long
time. After the whole training is done, we can generate images using
the generator just as we did with our VAEs. For instance, take a look
at the images generated by the GAN in Figure 11.9. This is when we
asked it to generate a bag. You can look at the full code and
experiment with creating images of other classes as well. The results,
we agree, aren’t that overwhelming. However, as mentioned before,
the techniques we’ve learned in this chapter are building blocks that
will lead us to the state-of-the-art models in the next chapter. The
reason for this lackluster result is that while our ACGAN
implementation includes many stability techniques, GAN training
remains notoriously challenging. Even with careful architecture
design and hyperparameter tuning, you’ll likely encounter training
instabilities, mode collapse, or convergence failures. Understanding
these common pitfalls and their solutions is essential for successful
GAN deployment.
Figure 11.9     Fake Images Generated by the Trained GAN

--- Strana 1006 ---
11.3.5    Implementation Challenges
Mode collapse represents the most common failure mode, where the
generator learns to produce only a subset of possible outputs.
Instead of generating diverse shoes, bags, and shirts, a collapsed
generator might produce only a few shoe variations, ignoring entire
classes or producing nearly identical samples within classes. This
occurs when the generator finds a few easy wins that consistently
fool the discriminator and stops exploring the full data distribution.
Training instability manifests through oscillating losses, where neither
network converges to a stable solution. The generator and
discriminator engage in an unstable arms race: when the
discriminator becomes too powerful, it provides uninformative
gradients to the generator, while an overpowered generator can fool
the discriminator so effectively that it stops learning meaningful
features. Discriminator-generator imbalance requires constant
attention throughout training. If the discriminator learns too quickly, it
becomes perfect at detecting fake images, leaving the generator with
vanishing gradients. Conversely, if the generator advances too
rapidly, the discriminator receives no useful training signal from
obviously fake samples.
Common solutions include adjusting learning rate ratios (we used
4:1), implementing spectral normalization to constrain discriminator
power, and using techniques such as feature matching where the
generator tries to match intermediate discriminator representations
rather than just fooling the final output.

--- Strana 1007 ---
Similarly, gradient problems plague GAN training through vanishing
and exploding gradients. When the discriminator becomes too
confident, gradients flowing back to the generator approach 0. Our
label smoothing and Gaussian noise injection help maintain gradient
flow, but these issues persist across different GAN variants. Due to
these extreme difficulties, GANs showed tremendous promise but
struggled with stable large-scale image generation for years.
Researchers eventually developed newer generative models based
on the same underlying principles but with fundamentally different
training dynamics. This doesn’t mean that spending time with GANs
was useless. On the contrary, learning these core concepts teaches
us important lessons that help us avoid future mistakes and optimize
state-of-the-art models for modern realistic image generation. We’ll
examine such models in the next chapter.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1008 ---
11.4    Summary
In this chapter, we explored GenAI through three key architectures.
We began with autoencoders, learning how their encoder-decoder
structure compresses data into meaningful latent representations
and reconstructs outputs, with variations such as denoising and
sparse autoencoders addressing specific challenges. We then
advanced to Variational Autoencoders (VAEs), which introduced
probabilistic encoding through the reparameterization trick and KL
divergence loss, enabling controlled generation by sampling from
learned latent distributions. Finally, we tackled Generative
Adversarial Networks (GANs), implementing a complete ACGAN that
combines adversarial training between generator and discriminator
networks with class conditioning for controlled image generation. We
discovered that while GANs can produce impressive results, they
suffer from fundamental training challenges such as mode collapse
and instability that limited their practical deployment for years, paving
the way for the newer generative models we’ll explore in the next
chapter.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1009 ---
12    Advanced Generative AI:
Stable Diffusion
In this chapter, we’ll tackle one of the most exciting frontiers
in modern AI: realistic image generation through diffusion.
You’ll start by exploring the mathematics behind diffusion
processes, understanding how computers learn to transform
random noise into visual art and build your own diffusion
model from scratch, watching it evolve from chaotic pixels to
recognizable images. You’ll uncover the secret behind Stable
Diffusion and explore text-conditioned generation, where
written words enable creative visual expression. Finally, you’ll
briefly consider sophisticated techniques such as inpainting,
where you control image generation with precision. By the
end of this chapter, you’ll understand how these systems
work and how to harness their power for your own projects.
The generative models we explored in the previous chapter—
autoencoders, variational autoencoders (VAEs), and generative
adversarial networks (GANs)—laid crucial groundwork for
understanding how machines can learn to create new content. Each
brought unique strengths to the table: autoencoders showed us how

--- Strana 1010 ---
to compress and reconstruct data efficiently, VAEs introduced the
power of probabilistic generation in latent spaces, and GANs
demonstrated that two competing networks could push each other
toward remarkably realistic outputs. However, for many years, these
models struggled to work effectively on their own for complex, high-
resolution image generation tasks. Autoencoders, while excellent at
reconstruction, produced blurry and unrealistic images when used for
generation. VAEs suffered from similar issues, often creating outputs
that lacked the sharp details and coherent structures we see in real
photographs. GANs, despite their impressive capabilities, proved
notoriously difficult to train and often fell into problematic patterns
such as mode collapse, where they would generate only a limited
variety of outputs.
The breakthrough came when researchers discovered how to
combine the best aspects of these foundational concepts into a
revolutionary new architecture. This approach doesn’t abandon what
we’ve learned. Instead, it builds upon the latent space
representations from VAEs, incorporates the attention mechanisms
we studied with transformers, and applies the optimization techniques
we’ve mastered with gradient descent and neural networks.
In this chapter, we’ll explore how this synthesis of ideas led to one of
the most significant advances in generative AI (GenAI). We’ll start by
understanding the theoretical principles that make this approach so
effective, examining how it solves the problems that plagued earlier
methods. You’ll see how the core concepts we’ve been building
throughout this book—from basic neural networks to complex

--- Strana 1011 ---
architectures—come together in an elegant solution. We’ll then dive
into the practical implementation, building these models step-by-step
using Keras. Rather than treating this as a black box, we’ll construct
each component ourselves, giving you a deep understanding of how
every piece contributes to the final result. You’ll learn to create
systems that can generate high-quality images from simple text
descriptions, opening doors to applications in art, design, and
countless other creative fields.
[+]  Navigating the Mathematical Complexity
The mathematical foundations underlying these concepts can be
dense, drawing from multiple complex fields, including linear
algebra, calculus, probability theory, and optimization. While a deep
mathematical understanding enhances your grasp of the subject,
it’s not essential when starting out. We recommend reading through
the mathematical sections to get a general sense of the concepts,
and then proceeding directly to the implementation even if you
don’t fully grasp every mathematical detail.
Seeing these principles applied in working code often provides the
intuitive understanding that makes the mathematics clearer. You
can always return to the mathematical foundations later with the
benefit of practical experience to guide your understanding.
The models we’ll explore represent a convergence of everything
we’ve learned so far, showing how foundational concepts can evolve

--- Strana 1012 ---
into transformative technologies when combined thoughtfully and
implemented skillfully.
12.1    Theory Behind Stable Diffusion
Understanding the theory behind Stable Diffusion requires us to step
back and look at generation from an entirely new perspective. Up
until now, we’ve approached the problem of creating new data as a
single, dramatic leap—transforming random noise into a finished
image in one complex operation. But what if we could break this
seemingly impossible task into hundreds of tiny, manageable steps?
Stable Diffusion takes this approach, treating generation as a slow,
iterative process of refinement rather than a miraculous instant
transformation. This shift in perspective changes everything about
how we train generative models and what makes them successful.
Instead of learning to conjure images from nothing, our models learn
something far more tractable: how to gradually remove noise and
reveal structure through a sequence of learned denoising steps. Each
step makes only a small correction, but when chained together, these
incremental improvements transform pure randomness into coherent,
detailed images. This process gives us unprecedented control over
generation quality while avoiding many of the training difficulties that
plagued earlier approaches. In this section, we’ll explain the theory
behind Stable Diffusion and will explore how it works.

--- Strana 1013 ---
12.1.1    From Previous Generative Models to Diffusion
The progress toward effective GenAI has been incremental, with
each breakthrough revealing new possibilities while exposing
fundamental limitations. When we step back and examine the
generative models we explored in the previous chapter, we can see a
clear pattern: Each approach solved specific problems while
introducing others, creating a puzzle that researchers have been
working to complete for decades. Autoencoders, in their basic form,
taught us the power of compressed representations. By forcing
information through a narrow bottleneck, they learned to capture the
most essential features of data. However, when we attempted to use
them for generation by sampling from their latent space, the results
were disappointing. The latent space lacked the smooth, continuous
structure necessary for generating new, coherent examples. Random
sampling from this space often produced meaningless outputs
because the encoder had no incentive to organize the latent
representations in a way that supported generation.
The mathematical root of this problem lies in the deterministic nature
of standard autoencoders. The encoder function 
 maps each
input x to a single point z in latent space, creating a sparse,
disconnected representation. When we sample from regions of this
space that the encoder never visited during training, we encounter
undefined territory where the decoder has no learned behavior.
Variational autoencoders (VAEs) emerged as an elegant solution to
this sampling problem. By treating the latent space probabilistically,
VAEs forced the encoder to output parameters of probability

--- Strana 1014 ---
distributions rather than fixed points. This created a smooth,
continuous latent space where interpolation between points yielded
meaningful results. The reparameterization trick allowed us to
maintain differentiability while introducing the stochastic elements
necessary for proper sampling.
Yet VAEs introduced their own significant limitation: the reconstruction
loss term in their objective function. The combination of
reconstruction loss and Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence created a
fundamental tension. The model needed to balance two competing
objectives: accurately reconstructing inputs while maintaining a well-
structured latent space. This balance typically favored reconstruction
accuracy over generation quality, resulting in blurry, averaged
outputs. The decoder learned to hedge its bets, producing images
that captured general features but lacked sharp details. The technical
explanation for this blurriness lies in the loss function itself. The mean
squared error (MSE) reconstruction loss penalizes the model equally
for all pixel deviations, encouraging it to predict the average of
possible outputs rather than committing to specific details. When
multiple plausible reconstructions exist for a given latent code, the
decoder learns to output a compromise that minimizes overall error,
resulting in the characteristic soft, unfocused appearance of VAE-
generated images.
Generative adversarial networks (GANs), on the other hand, took a
radically different approach, abandoning reconstruction loss entirely
in favor of an adversarial objective. This shift proved transformative in
many ways. GANs could generate remarkably sharp, detailed images

--- Strana 1015 ---
because the discriminator network provided a more sophisticated
measure of image quality than simple pixel-wise loss functions. The
generator learned to fool an opponent that could evaluate images
holistically, leading to outputs with convincing textures, edges, and
fine details.
However, this adversarial training regime introduced its own set of
challenges. Mode collapse became a persistent problem, where the
generator would discover a small set of outputs that consistently
fooled the discriminator and then refuse to explore beyond these safe
options. The mathematical cause of mode collapse stems from the
minimax objective: If the generator finds a strategy that works, it has
no incentive to diversify its outputs as long as the discriminator
remains fooled.
Training instability proved equally problematic. The adversarial
objective creates a complex optimization landscape where the
generator and discriminator must reach a delicate equilibrium. Small
changes in one network could destabilize the entire training process,
leading to oscillations, divergence, or collapse. The nonconvex nature
of this optimization problem meant that successful training required
careful hyperparameter tuning, architectural choices, and often
multiple restart attempts. If you ran and experimented with the code
for GANs from the previous chapter, you would have faced this
frustration.
Each of these generative approaches illuminated different aspects of
the generation problem. Autoencoders showed us the value of
learned representations. VAEs demonstrated how probabilistic

--- Strana 1016 ---
modeling could create structured latent spaces. GANs proved that
adversarial training could produce high-quality outputs. Yet none
provided a complete solution to high-fidelity, controllable generation.
The breakthrough came when researchers realized that the
generation process itself could be reconceptualized. Instead of trying
to map directly from noise to data in a single step, what if we broke
the process into many small, learnable steps? This insight led to the
development of diffusion-based approaches, which sidestep many of
the fundamental limitations we’ve discussed.
Diffusion models approach generation as a gradual refinement
process, starting from pure noise and slowly removing that noise
through a series of learned denoising steps. This process eliminates
the need for adversarial training, avoiding the instability issues that
plague GANs. It also provides a natural way to control the generation
process, as we can intervene at any step in the denoising sequence.
Perhaps most importantly, diffusion models can achieve the sharp,
detailed outputs we saw with GANs while maintaining the training
stability and theoretical grounding we value from other approaches.
They represent a synthesis of insights from the entire generative
modeling landscape, combining the best aspects of previous methods
while avoiding their major pitfalls.
The mathematical elegance of diffusion models lies in their
connection to well-understood physical processes. Just as
thermodynamic systems naturally evolve from order to disorder,
diffusion models learn to reverse this process, transforming disorder
back into structured, meaningful data. This physical grounding

--- Strana 1017 ---
provides both theoretical insights and practical advantages that we’ll
explore in the sections that follow.
12.1.2    Diffusion Process Fundamentals
This iterative refinement process that we’ve introduced operates
through two complementary phases that mirror each other in
mathematical symmetry. To understand how Stable Diffusion works,
we need to examine both sides of this process:
How we systematically add noise to destroy structure
How we learn to reverse this destruction step-by-step
Diffusion begins with a clean, structured image and gradually corrupts
it with noise over many time steps. This might seem counterintuitive
at first: Why would we want to destroy perfectly good images? The
answer lies in creating a well-defined learning problem. By controlling
exactly how we add noise, we create a process that our neural
networks can learn to reverse. Mathematically, we define this forward
process as a Markov chain where each step depends only on the
previous one. We discussed the concept of Markov Decision
Processes in detail in Chapter 10. These processes are formalized
using Markov Chains. Starting with our original image x0, we create a
sequence of increasingly noisy versions: x1, x2, x3, …, xT. At each
time step t, we add a small amount of Gaussian noise according to

--- Strana 1018 ---
Here, 
 represents our noise schedule—a carefully chosen
sequence of values that determines how much noise we add at each
step. The noise schedule starts small (adding just a tiny amount of
noise early on) and gradually increases, ensuring that by the final
time step T, our image has been transformed into pure Gaussian
noise.
[+]  Noise Schedule Demystified
The noise schedule forms the backbone of Stable Diffusion, though
this straightforward concept often gets buried in dense
mathematics. Simply put, if we need to add 10 units of noise to
transform a clean image into complete noise, the schedule
determines how much noise we add at each step. With 10 steps,
we could add 1 unit per step uniformly, start with 2 units and
gradually decrease, or follow the reverse pattern. This distribution
strategy—the noise schedule—fundamentally shapes how the
diffusion process unfolds and directly impacts the quality of
generated images.
The choice of noise schedule 
 profoundly affects both training
efficiency and generation quality. We want a schedule that gradually
removes information without creating sudden jumps that make the
reverse process difficult to learn. A common choice is a linear
schedule where 
 increases linearly from a small value (e.g., 0.0001)
to a larger value (e.g., 0.02) over a thousand time steps. However,
research has shown that more sophisticated schedules often work

--- Strana 1019 ---
better. A cosine schedule, for instance, adds noise more slowly at the
beginning and end of the process while accelerating in the middle.
The key insight is that we want our noise schedule to respect the
natural structure of our data. Images have both fine details and
coarse structures, and our schedule should progressively destroy
these features in a way that makes the reverse process learnable.
12.1.3    Reverse Diffusion: Learning to Denoise
The reverse diffusion process is where the real magic happens.
Having defined how to systematically destroy images, we now need
to learn how to reconstruct them. This reverse process isn’t
deterministic—we can’t simply run the forward process backward
because adding noise is an irreversible operation. Instead, we need
to learn a neural network that can estimate the reverse transitions.
The key insight is that if we know the noise that was added at each
step, we can subtract it to recover the previous, less noisy image. Our
neural network 
 learns to predict this noise at any time step t.
During generation, we start with pure noise xT and iteratively apply
our learned denoising function as
where 
, 
 controls the amount of stochasticity in our
reverse process, and  represents the amount of the original signal
retained at each time step during the forward diffusion process. This
equation encapsulates the essence of diffusion-based generation: We

--- Strana 1020 ---
take our current noisy image, subtract our network’s noise estimate,
and add a small amount of fresh randomness to maintain the proper
distribution.
The training objective becomes surprisingly simple. We randomly
sample a time step t, add noise to a training image to create xt, and
train our network to predict the noise that was added:
This is just MSE between the actual noise and our network’s
prediction. The elegance of this formulation is remarkable—we’ve
transformed the complex problem of learning to generate images into
the much simpler problem of learning to denoise.
12.1.4    Connections to Physical Processes
The mathematical foundation of diffusion models draws deep
inspiration from thermodynamics and statistical mechanics. A deeper
understand of this will help you appreciate the models and help you
debug the models with more insight. The forward diffusion process
mirrors the second law of thermodynamics, where ordered systems
naturally evolve toward maximum entropy. Just as a drop of ink
spreads through water until it reaches equilibrium, our forward
process gradually increases the entropy of our images until they
become indistinguishable from random noise. The reverse process,
then, is analogous to time reversal symmetry in physical systems.
While physical processes naturally move from order to disorder, our

--- Strana 1021 ---
learned reverse process moves from disorder back to order. This
connection provides both mathematical rigor and intuitive
understanding—we’re essentially learning to apply the second law of
thermodynamics in reverse by reconstructing order from chaos.
This physical grounding also explains why diffusion models are so
stable to train. Unlike GANs, which require balancing two competing
networks, diffusion models optimize a single, well-defined objective
that has clear physical meaning. The loss function measures how
well we can predict and remove noise, which is a much more stable
learning signal than the adversarial objectives we encountered with
GANs. The statistical mechanics perspective also provides insights
into why this approach works so well for generation. In equilibrium
statistical mechanics, systems naturally sample from their equilibrium
distribution. By learning the reverse diffusion process, we’re
essentially learning to sample from the data distribution by starting
from the equilibrium distribution (pure noise) and following the
reverse-time dynamics back to structured data.
This connection to well-established physical principles gives us
confidence that diffusion models are a fundamental approach to
generative modeling that taps into deep mathematical structures
governing how information and entropy behave in complex systems.
If you’re aiming to work with these models in depth and possibly
contribute to the field itself by conducting research, it would be fruitful
to study these concepts in more detail. For now, we’ll leave the
discussion here and move back to the concrete model discussions.

--- Strana 1022 ---
12.1.5    Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models
After understanding the forward and reverse diffusion processes, we
can examine how these concepts crystallize into a practical system
called denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPMs ). Think of
DDPMs as the engineering blueprint that transforms our theoretical
understanding of diffusion into a working generative model. Just as
an architect takes abstract concepts about space and light and turns
them into detailed construction plans, DDPMs provide the specific
architectural and training framework needed to build effective
diffusion models. The overall architecture of a basic denoising Stable
Diffusion model is shown in Figure 12.1. We’ll be referring back to this
figure repeatedly as we expand on our explanations of these models.
Figure 12.1     Architecture of the Stable Diffusion Model
The core architecture of a DDPM centers around the interesting
premise we discussed earlier: training a neural network (the U-Net
box in Figure 12.1) to become an expert noise detective. This
network’s job is to look at any noisy image and accurately predict
exactly what noise was added to create it. Once we have this
capability, generation becomes straightforward—we start with pure

--- Strana 1023 ---
noise and repeatedly ask our detector, “What noise should I remove
next?”
The mathematical foundation of DDPMs builds directly on our
diffusion process fundamentals. Recall that during forward diffusion,
we add noise according to
The training process works by sampling a random image x0 from our
dataset, choosing a random time step t, and adding the appropriate
amount of noise to create xt. We then ask our network to predict what
noise was added. The loss function we established earlier as
measures how accurately our network can identify this noise.
What makes this approach so powerful is its simplicity. Unlike GANs,
where we need to balance two competing networks in a delicate
adversarial dance, DDPM training involves just one network learning
one clear task: noise prediction. This single-minded focus eliminates
the training instabilities that plagued earlier generative approaches.
At the heart of every DDPM lies a U-Net architecture, the same
powerful structure we explored in detail in Chapter 8, Section 8.3.3.
The U-Net’s encoder-decoder structure with skip connections makes
it uniquely suited for denoising tasks. The encoder progressively
compresses the noisy input into increasingly abstract representations,
while the decoder reconstructs the output, using skip connections to
preserve fine-grained details that might otherwise be lost in the

--- Strana 1024 ---
compression process. For diffusion models, we enhance the standard
U-Net with several crucial modifications. The network needs to
understand not just what noise to remove, but when in the diffusion
process it’s operating. A heavily noised image at time step 800
requires different denoising strategies than a lightly noised image at
time step 50. This temporal awareness becomes a critical component
of the architecture. The U-Net’s multi-resolution processing aligns
perfectly with the hierarchical nature of image generation. Early
denoising steps focus on establishing overall composition and large-
scale structures, while later steps refine details and textures. The U-
Net’s architecture naturally supports this progression, with deeper
layers handling global structure and shallower layers managing fine
details.
The key innovation that transforms a standard U-Net into a diffusion
model is time-step conditioning. Our network needs to know not just
what it’s looking at, but when in the diffusion process it’s operating.
This temporal context fundamentally changes how the network
should behave. We implement time-step conditioning by embedding
the time step t into a learnable representation and injecting this
information throughout the network. The time-step embedding
typically uses sinusoidal positional encodings similar to those used in
transformer architectures. We compute time step embeddings as
where d is the embedding dimension. These embeddings capture
both the absolute time step and relative temporal relationships,

--- Strana 1025 ---
allowing the network to understand its position in the denoising
sequence.
The time-step information gets incorporated into the U-Net model
through several mechanisms. We add time-step embeddings to
intermediate feature maps, allowing each layer to adjust its
processing based on the current noise level. We also use time-step-
conditioned normalization layers that modulate feature activations
based on temporal context.
This conditioning creates a single network that effectively learns
thousands of specialized denoising functions—one for each time
step. Early time steps learn to remove large amounts of noise and
establish basic structure, while later time steps focus on subtle
refinements and detail enhancement. The network learns to
automatically adjust its behavior based on the time-step context. The
stochastic nature of time-step sampling during training ensures that
the network develops expertise across the entire denoising spectrum.
Each training step presents a different temporal challenge, forcing the
network to develop robust, generalizable denoising capabilities rather
than memorizing specific noise patterns.
This training approach creates several advantageous properties:
The network learns a comprehensive understanding of image
structure at multiple scales.
The denoising objective provides consistent, meaningful gradients
throughout training.

--- Strana 1026 ---
The process naturally regularizes the model, as the network must
learn to distinguish signal from noise rather than simply
memorizing training examples.
The convergence properties of DDPM training prove remarkably
stable compared to other generative approaches. The loss function
provides clear, interpretable feedback about model performance, and
training typically proceeds smoothly without the oscillations or mode
collapse issues that characterize adversarial training. This stability
makes DDPMs practical for large-scale applications and allows for
more predictable scaling to higher resolutions and more complex
datasets.
[+]  The “Stable” in Stable Diffusion
The name Stable Diffusion is a nod to the training stability of the
model. The diffusion process avoids the divergence and mode
collapse issues that plagued earlier generative models such as
GANs. The training converges reliably without the oscillating losses
and instability that made GANs notoriously difficult to train.
As we’ll see in the next section, these foundational DDPM concepts
extend naturally to more sophisticated architectures that operate in
latent spaces rather than directly on pixels, opening the door to the
powerful Stable Diffusion systems that have transformed GenAI
applications.

--- Strana 1027 ---
12.1.6    Latent Diffusion and Stable Diffusion
Architecture
The DDPM framework we just explored works beautifully in principle,
but there’s a practical challenge lurking beneath the surface. When
we apply diffusion directly to high-resolution images, we’re asking our
U-Net to process enormous amounts of data at every time step. A
single 512×512 RGB image contains nearly 800,000 individual pixel
values, and running our denoising network on such large inputs
becomes computationally expensive very quickly. This computational
bottleneck led researchers to a breakthrough insight: What if we
didn’t need to work with raw pixels at all? What if we could perform
our diffusion process in a more compact, efficient representation of
the image? This is where latent diffusion enters the picture, building
directly on the variational autoencoder foundations we established in
the previous chapter.
Recall that VAEs can learn how to compress images into compact
latent representations. The encoder transforms a high-dimensional
image into a lower-dimensional latent code, capturing the essential
features while discarding redundant information. The decoder then
reconstructs the image from this compressed representation. This
compression creates a more structured, semantically meaningful
representation of the image content. Latent diffusion uses this insight
by moving our entire diffusion process into the VAE’s latent space.
Instead of adding noise directly to pixels, we first encode our training
images into latent representations using a pretrained VAE. Our
diffusion model then learns to add and remove noise in this

--- Strana 1028 ---
compressed latent space. Finally, when we want to generate a new
image, we decode our denoised latent representation back into pixel
space using the VAE decoder. The core workflow for generation is
shown in Figure 12.2.
Figure 12.2     Generation in Latent Diffusion
Our U-Net now predicts noise in latent space as 
, and our
loss function becomes
This seemingly simple change brings dramatic benefits. A 512×512
image might compress to a 64×64 latent representation—a 64-fold
reduction in the amount of data our diffusion model needs to process.
This efficiency gain makes high-resolution generation feasible.
Concisely, Stable Diffusion architecture orchestrates three distinct
components working in harmony, each contributing specialized
capabilities to the generation process:
VAE
The first component is our VAE, which serves as the gateway
between pixel space and latent space. The VAE transforms images
into compact latent representations: z0 = E( x0). The VAE decoder
reconstructs images from latent codes: x0 = D( z0). This component

--- Strana 1029 ---
handles all the pixel-level details, allowing the other components to
work with more abstract representations.
U-Net
The second component is our familiar U-Net, now operating in
latent space rather than pixel space. This network has learned to
understand the structure and semantics of the latent
representations, becoming expert at predicting and removing noise
from these compressed encodings. U-Net handles the core
generation logic, transforming random noise into structured latent
representations.
Text conditioning
The third component introduces an entirely new capability: text
conditioning through a text encoder. This component transforms
text prompts into rich semantic embeddings that guide the
generation process. Unlike our previous generative models that
produced random samples from their training distribution, Stable
Diffusion can generate images that match specific textual
descriptions.
Interestingly, the computational advantages of latent diffusion extend
far beyond simple dimensionality reduction. Working in latent space
creates a more semantically structured representation where small
changes correspond to meaningful variations in image content rather
than arbitrary pixel modifications. Consider the difference between
making edits in pixel space versus latent space. Changing a few
pixels rarely produces meaningful image modifications—you might
slightly alter a few edge boundaries or introduce subtle color shifts.

--- Strana 1030 ---
But changing a few values in a well-trained latent space can
transform a dog into a cat, change the lighting conditions, or modify
the artistic style of an entire image. This semantic structure makes
the diffusion process more efficient in multiple ways. U-Net can focus
on learning meaningful transformations rather than pixel-level noise
patterns. The reduced dimensionality allows for faster forward and
backward passes during training. Most importantly, the compressed
representation captures the essential information needed for
generation while discarding the redundant details that would
otherwise slow down the process.
The efficiency gains compound throughout the system. Training
becomes faster because each denoising step processes less data.
Generation becomes faster for the same reason. Memory
requirements drop dramatically, making it possible to generate high-
resolution images on consumer hardware that would struggle with
pixel-space diffusion models.
12.1.7    Cross-Attention: The Bridge Between Text and
Images
The most sophisticated aspect of Stable Diffusion lies in how it
connects textual descriptions to visual generation through cross-
attention mechanisms. Building on the attention concepts we
explored with transformers in Chapter 9, cross-attention allows our U-
Net to selectively focus on different parts of the text prompt while
generating different regions of the image.

--- Strana 1031 ---
The text encoder transforms our prompt into a sequence of token
embeddings:
These embeddings capture both individual word meanings and their
relationships within the prompt. U-Net then uses cross-attention
layers to allow each spatial location in the developing image to attend
to relevant parts of the text description. Cross-attention operates by
computing attention weights between spatial features in the image
and semantic features in the text. For each spatial location ( i, j) in our
latent representation, the cross-attention mechanism computes
Where Q comes from our image features and K, V come from our text
embeddings. This allows each part of the developing image to look at
the text prompt and decide which words or concepts are most
relevant for that particular region. Because the query and values
come from different structures rather than the same, it’s called cross-
attention as opposed to the concept of self-attention we studied in
Chapter 9. This cross-attention creates a dynamic, content-aware
relationship between text and image. When generating the sky region
of an image, the model can focus on words such as “sunset” or
“cloudy” in the prompt. When working on foreground objects, it can
attend to descriptive terms about those specific elements. This fine-
grained control enables the remarkable text-to-image capabilities that
have made Stable Diffusion so powerful for creative applications.

--- Strana 1032 ---
The integration of cross-attention throughout the U-Net model
ensures that text guidance influences the generation process at
multiple scales and levels of abstraction. Early layers might use text
information to establish overall composition and scene layout, while
later layers use it to refine specific details and textures that match the
prompt description.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1033 ---
12.2    How Stable Diffusion Uses Core
Concepts
Now that we understand the theoretical foundations of Stable
Diffusion, this section will explore how this highly intricate system
builds upon the core concepts we’ve been developing. The brilliance
of Stable Diffusion lies not in abandoning what came before but in
weaving together the best insights from autoencoders, transformers,
and optimization theory into something entirely new. Each
component we’ve studied finds its perfect role in this architecture.
The process of how Stable Diffusion uses autoencoders begins with
a fundamental insight about representation learning. Remember our
exploration of autoencoders in the previous chapter, where we
discovered how these networks learn to compress images into
compact representations and then reconstruct them? That
compression enabled learning what matters most in an image. The
autoencoder essentially asks the following: “If I had to capture
everything important about this image in just a few hundred
numbers, what would those numbers represent?” The answer turns
out to be extraordinarily valuable. The VAE learns to identify and
encode the semantic essence of images—the concepts, objects,
relationships, and structures that make each image meaningful.
When we feed a photograph of a sunset over mountains into a VAE,
it doesn’t just record pixel colors and positions. Instead, it captures

--- Strana 1034 ---
abstract concepts such as “orange sky,” “silhouetted peaks,”
“atmospheric lighting,” and “horizontal composition.” These concepts
get encoded as numerical patterns in the latent space.
The latent space that the VAE learns has special properties that
make it ideal for diffusion processes. Unlike the raw pixel space,
where neighboring values might represent completely unrelated
image features, the VAE’s latent space exhibits smooth, continuous
structure. Moving from one point to another in this space
corresponds to meaningful semantic transitions in the resulting
images. Change a few values in one direction, and you might shift
from day to night. Adjust different dimensions, and you could
transform a photograph into a painting or change the emotional
mood of a scene.
This smoothness becomes crucial for diffusion. When we add noise
to a latent representation, we’re creating variations that still lie within
the manifold of meaningful image representations. The noise doesn’t
break the semantic structure; it simply obscures it temporarily. This
property makes the denoising task much more tractable than trying
to denoise raw pixels.
The reconstruction term ensures that important visual information is
preserved in the latent space, while the KL divergence term
encourages the latent representations to follow a smooth, well-
behaved distribution. This second term is particularly important for
diffusion—it ensures that our latent space has the kind of regular

--- Strana 1035 ---
structure that makes adding and removing noise a meaningful
operation.
12.2.1    Efficient Diffusion Through Learned
Representations
Consider what happens when we add noise to a latent
representation of a cat image. In pixel space, adding noise might
randomly flip individual pixels, creating a chaotic pattern that bears
no resemblance to any real image. But in latent space, adding noise
creates variations that still represent plausible images—perhaps a
cat with different fur patterns, in a different pose, or with slightly
different lighting. The noisy latent representation remains within the
space of meaningful image concepts.
This property dramatically simplifies the denoising task. Our U-Net
doesn’t need to learn to distinguish between “random static” and
“actual image content.” Instead, it learns to distinguish between
“slightly blurry cat concept” and “clear cat concept,” or between
“vague landscape idea” and “specific mountain scene.” These
distinctions are much more learnable and require far less training
data to master.
The dimensional comparison between pixel space and latent space
shows why this approach works so effectively. A high-resolution
512×512×3 RGB image contains 786,432 individual pixel values.
Each pixel can take any value from 0 to 255, creating an enormous
space of possible images—most of which represent meaningless

--- Strana 1036 ---
noise rather than coherent visual content. The VAE typically
compresses this to a 64×64×4 latent representation containing just
16,384 values. This might seem like a dramatic loss of information,
but the compression is highly intelligent. The VAE learns to discard
redundant information while preserving semantic content. Those
16,384 latent values capture the essential concepts and
relationships that define the image’s meaning.
This compression creates a 48× reduction in the amount of data our
diffusion model needs to process. But the benefits go beyond mere
computational efficiency. The compressed representation is also
much denser in meaningful content. In pixel space, most random
samples produce nonsensical images. In the VAE’s latent space,
most random samples correspond to plausible image concepts, even
if they’re not perfect.
The latent space also exhibits better interpolation properties than
pixel space. If we take two latent representations and linearly
interpolate between them, we get a smooth semantic transition
between the corresponding images. Try the same interpolation in
pixel space, and you typically get blurry, unrealistic intermediates.
This smoothness is exactly what we need for Stable Diffusion
training—it ensures that the noise addition and removal process
creates learnable patterns rather than chaotic transitions.
This foundation of efficient, semantically structured representation
learning sets the stage for everything else that makes Stable
Diffusion work. The attention mechanisms we’ll explore next can

--- Strana 1037 ---
focus on meaningful concepts rather than arbitrary pixel patterns.
The optimization process can converge more quickly because it’s
working in a space designed for semantic manipulation. And the final
results maintain high quality because they’re decoded by a network
that has learned to translate abstract concepts back into detailed,
realistic images. The genius of this approach lies in recognizing that
generation is fundamentally about manipulating concepts and ideas,
not just pixels.
12.2.2    Advanced Attention Mechanisms
Building upon the semantic foundation that VAEs provide, Stable
Diffusion incorporates another crucial breakthrough from our earlier
understanding: the attention mechanisms we explored with
transformers in Chapter 9. Stable Diffusion transforms them into
something entirely new. Consider taking the focused attention
system that helped transformers understand language and adapting
it to bridge the gap between words and images. That’s exactly what
happens in Stable Diffusion’s sophisticated attention architecture.
The attention mechanisms in Stable Diffusion serve as the
communication channels that allow different parts of the system to
coordinate their efforts. Without attention, our U-Net would process
each region of the image in isolation, unable to consider how
different areas should relate to each other or how they should
respond to our text prompts. With attention, these isolated regions
become participants in a rich conversation about what the final

--- Strana 1038 ---
image should look like. Recall our exploration of transformer
attention, where we learned how these models could focus on
relevant parts of a sequence when processing each element. Stable
Diffusion takes this same concept and applies it to a much more
complex challenge: coordinating the generation of visual content
while responding to textual descriptions. The beauty lies in how the
same attention mechanism can serve multiple purposes within a
single system. Sometimes, it helps different parts of an image
coordinate with each other. Other times, it allows the developing
image to “look at” the text prompt to understand what should be
generated. And throughout the process, it enables the kind of fine-
grained control that makes Stable Diffusion so remarkably
responsive to our creative intentions.
The key insight is that attention creates dynamic connections that
change based on context. Early in the generation process, when the
image is mostly noise, attention patterns focus on establishing basic
composition and layout. As the image develops, attention shifts to
coordinate details, textures, and fine-grained features. This adaptive
behavior emerges naturally from the same mathematical framework
we learned with transformers. This concept of attention has two
complementary aspects to it: cross-attention and self-attention. Let’s
take a look at the difference between the two.

--- Strana 1039 ---
Cross-Attention Between Text and Images
The most revolutionary aspect of Stable Diffusion’s attention system
is cross-attention, which creates a direct dialogue between textual
concepts and visual generation. Imagine trying to paint a picture
while someone describes what they want to see, but instead of
having to remember their entire description, you could continuously
refer back to specific parts of their request as you work on different
areas of the canvas. That’s exactly what cross-attention enables in
Stable Diffusion. Cross-attention operates by allowing each spatial
location in our developing image to query the text embeddings for
relevant information. When generating the sky region of an image,
the attention mechanism can focus on words such as “sunset,”
“cloudy,” or “dramatic” in the prompt. When working on foreground
objects, it can attend to descriptive terms about those specific
elements. This creates a dynamic, content-aware relationship
between language and visual generation.
What makes this particularly powerful is how it handles complex,
multi-object scenes. Consider a prompt such as “a red car parked
next to a blue house under a stormy sky.” The cross-attention
mechanism allows different regions of the image to focus on different
parts of this description. The top region attends to “stormy sky,” the
middle-left region focuses on “blue house,” and the lower-right area
concentrates on “red car.” This selective attention creates coherent,
well-organized images that accurately reflect complex textual
descriptions.

--- Strana 1040 ---
Self-Attention Within the U-Net Architecture
While cross-attention handles the text-to-image dialogue, self-
attention within U-Net manages the equally important conversation
between different parts of the image itself. This internal attention
system ensures that the various regions of the developing image
coordinate properly with each other, maintaining global coherence
while allowing for local detail refinement. The genius of incorporating
self-attention at multiple scales within the U-Net hierarchy is that it
allows for both local and global coordination. Early layers with low-
resolution feature maps use self-attention to establish overall
composition and major structural relationships. Later layers with
high-resolution features use self-attention to coordinate fine details
and ensure consistency in textures and local patterns.
The combination of cross-attention and self-attention creates
unprecedented fine-grained control over the generation process.
This creates a system that can understand and respond to nuanced
creative directions with remarkable precision.
Attention also enables what we might call semantic binding—the
ability to correctly associate adjectives with their corresponding
nouns in complex prompts. When processing “a small red car next to
a large blue truck,” attention mechanisms ensure that “small” and
“red” both modify “car,” while “large” and “blue” modify “truck.” This
binding prevents the common failure mode, where attributes get
mixed up between objects.

--- Strana 1041 ---
The real elegance of this system though lies in its emergent
behavior. We don’t explicitly program rules about how objects should
relate to each other or how text should map to visual features.
Instead, the attention mechanisms learn these relationships through
training, discovering patterns and associations that reflect the
structure of language and the visual world.
[»]  Understanding Stable Diffusion Strengths
The fact of the matter is that most of the success of diffusion-
based models isn’t fully understood yet. Heavy research is being
conducted to figure out exactly how these properties have
emerged where we connected all the parts, but the sum of the
whole is much greater than its parts.
This learned attention creates a system that can generalize far
beyond its training examples. The network learns general principles
about how spatial relationships work, how object properties combine,
and how language maps to visual concepts. These principles allow it
to handle novel combinations and creative prompts that it has never
seen before.
The result is a generation system that feels remarkably responsive to
human creative intent. The attention mechanisms create multiple
pathways for control—through text prompts, through spatial layout,
through style directions, and through the complex interplay between
all of these factors. This multifaceted control system is what enables

--- Strana 1042 ---
the creative flexibility that has made Stable Diffusion so
transformative for artists, designers, and creative professionals.
12.2.3    Training Strategies and Optimization
With our sophisticated attention mechanisms providing the
communication pathways and our VAE foundation offering the
efficient representation space, we now need to examine how we
actually teach this complex system to generate beautiful images.
The optimization strategies that make this possible draw from
everything we’ve learned about gradient descent, regularization, and
even classification techniques. The remarkable thing about Stable
Diffusion training is how it transforms the seemingly impossible task
of learning to create any image into a series of manageable,
learnable problems. Instead of trying to master image generation all
at once, the system learns through millions of small denoising tasks,
each one slightly different but following the same basic pattern. The
gradient descent process in diffusion models operates in a
surprisingly familiar way despite the complexity of what the model is
learning. Recall our foundational work with gradient descent from
Chapter 3, where we learned how neural networks adjust their
parameters by following the slope of the loss function downhill. The
same principle applies here, but now we’re navigating a much more
sophisticated landscape.
Our loss function remains elegantly simple. At its heart, it’s still MSE
—we’re measuring how well our network can predict the noise that

--- Strana 1043 ---
was added to an image. But the implications of optimizing this loss
are profound. The time step value changes randomly, meaning the
difficulty level varies unpredictably. This stochastic sampling creates
a robust learning environment where the network develops expertise
across the entire spectrum of denoising tasks. The gradient
computation flows backward through the entire U-Net architecture,
adjusting millions of parameters simultaneously. The cross-attention
weights learn to associate text concepts with visual features. The
self-attention mechanisms develop understanding of spatial
relationships. The convolutional layers refine their ability to detect
and generate visual patterns. All of this happens through the same
backpropagation process we’ve been using throughout our journey
but applied to a system of unprecedented sophistication. This
process is supported by two important novelties in the diffusion
models: automatic regularization and classifier-free guidance. In the
sections that follow, let’s take a look at these briefly to drive the point
home.
Regularization Adapted for Diffusion Models
The regularization techniques we explored in Chapter 6 find new
applications in diffusion models, but they’re adapted to account for
the unique aspects of the denoising process. Traditional
regularization methods such as dropout and weight decay still play
important roles, but diffusion models introduce novel regularization
challenges that require creative solutions. One key insight is that the
diffusion process itself provides a form of implicit regularization. By

--- Strana 1044 ---
training on noisy versions of images rather than clean examples, the
network learns to be robust to variations and corruption. This noise-
based training naturally prevents overfitting to specific pixel patterns,
encouraging the model to focus on semantic content rather than
memorizing exact image details.
The time-step conditioning creates another form of regularization
through temporal diversity. Because the network must handle
denoising at every time step from 1 to T, it can’t rely on specialized
strategies that only work for specific noise levels. This forces the
development of general, robust denoising capabilities that generalize
well across different scenarios. On the other hand, attention
mechanisms introduce their own regularization considerations. The
softmax operations in attention naturally create sparse activation
patterns, where each query focuses on a small subset of relevant
keys. This sparsity acts as an implicit regularization, preventing the
model from creating overly complex dependencies that might not
generalize well. Similarly, weight decay becomes particularly
important for the text conditioning components. The cross-attention
layers that connect text embeddings to visual features can potentially
memorize specific text-image pairs from the training data. Careful
regularization of these connections ensures that the model learns
general text-to-image mapping principles rather than memorizing
specific examples.
Somewhat counterintuitively though, when applied to diffusion
models, dropout requires careful consideration of where and when to
apply it. Dropping out activations randomly during the denoising

--- Strana 1045 ---
process can interfere with the precise calculations needed for noise
prediction. Instead, diffusion models often use more sophisticated
dropout patterns that preserve critical information flows while still
providing regularization benefits.
Classification Connections Through Classifier-Free Guidance
Perhaps the most elegant connection between our earlier studies
and diffusion models comes through classifier-free guidance, a
technique that borrows insights from classification to enable better
control over generation. This approach represents a beautiful
synthesis of discriminative and generative learning that wouldn’t be
possible without our understanding of both paradigms. The core idea
builds on our classification work from Chapter 4. Contrary to the
mechanism of building networks that could distinguish between
different categories of inputs, classifier-free guidance applies similar
principles but in reverse—instead of classifying existing images, we
use classification-like techniques to guide the generation of new
images toward desired categories or characteristics.
This technique creates a parallel to classification confidence. Just as
we can interpret classification probabilities as measures of certainty,
the guidance weight in diffusion models controls how confident we
want the model to be in following our text instructions. Higher
guidance weights produce images that more closely match the text
prompt but might sacrifice naturalness and variety.

--- Strana 1046 ---
The elegance of classifier-free guidance lies in how it provides
controllable generation without requiring separate classifier
networks. Earlier approaches needed additional models to guide the
diffusion process, but classifier-free guidance achieves the same
control using only the diffusion model itself. This simplification makes
the system more efficient and eliminates potential training
instabilities that could arise from coordinating multiple networks. This
connection to classification concepts also provides intuitive
understanding of how to control generation. Just as we learned to
interpret classification outputs as probability distributions over
categories, we can think of guidance weights as controlling the
sharpness of the model’s adherence to our creative directions.
As we move into the implementation section, these training concepts
will become much more concrete. You’ll see how the elegant
mathematical formulations translate into practical code, how the
various regularization techniques are implemented in Keras, and
how classifier-free guidance enables the kind of creative control that
makes Stable Diffusion so powerful for artistic applications.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1047 ---
12.3    Implementing Stable Diffusion Models
In this section, we move from theory to practice, building a complete
diffusion model that generates high-quality images. Our
implementation strategy follows a logical progression that mirrors
how you’d approach this problem in real-world projects. We’ll start by
establishing our hyperparameters and data pipeline, ensuring we
have clean, properly preprocessed images to work with. Next, we’ll
implement a robust evaluation metric that helps us measure
generation quality throughout training. The heart of our
implementation lies in constructing the U-Net architecture we
discussed earlier, complete with sinusoidal embeddings for time-step
conditioning and the residual blocks that give the network its
denoising power. We’ll then build the main diffusion model class,
which orchestrates the entire process from noise scheduling to the
reverse diffusion that transforms random noise into meaningful
images. Finally, we’ll tie everything together with a training loop that
demonstrates how all of these components work in harmony to learn
the complex mapping from noise to data.
Each code segment builds directly on the concepts we’ve
established, so you’ll see familiar patterns from our convolutional
neural network (CNN) and autoencoder discussions, but now applied
to the unique challenges of diffusion-based generation.

--- Strana 1048 ---
[+]  Access the Full Code
Stable Diffusion is a complex model—more intricate than any
we’ve seen until now. So, we’ll be discussing only the most
interesting aspects of the code in the following sections. As
always, you can see the full executable code on the book’s official
web page as well as on the resources page at
https://recluze.net/keras-book in the notebook 12-01-diffusion-
scratch.
12.3.1    Environment and Data Prep
Let’s very briefly cover the setup of our environment and data before
we discuss the model in detail. Because Stable Diffusion models are
computationally intensive, we need to prepare for the reality of
training on free cloud resources. Google Colab’s free tier has
session time limits that will interrupt our training, so we’ll set up
persistent storage to save our progress. The simple setup code
shown in Listing 12.1 connects your Google Drive to the Colab
environment, providing a persistent location to store model
checkpoints. When Colab’s 24-hour limit resets your session, you
can reload your saved model and continue training from where you
left off. If you’re using a paid Colab tier, this step becomes less
critical, but it’s still good practice for any long-running training job.

--- Strana 1049 ---
from google.colab import drive
drive.mount('/content/drive')  
Listing 12.1     Connect to Google Drive for Checkpoint Persistence
Our preprocessing function in Listing 12.2 handles the essential data
preparation steps for training. The function first creates square crops
by finding the minimum dimension and cropping from the center.
This approach is no longer optional. This is because diffusion
models expect consistent input dimensions, and stretching
rectangular images to squares would distort important visual features
that the model needs to learn. Center cropping preserves the most
visually important content while giving us the uniform square format
required for efficient batch processing. The resize operation
standardizes all images to our target size with antialiasing to
maintain visual quality during the scaling process. Finally, pixel
normalization converts the standard 0–255 range to 0–1 values that
work better with our neural network’s gradient calculations.
def preprocess_img(data):
    height = ops.shape(data["image"])[0]
    width = ops.shape(data["image"])[1]
    crop_size = ops.minimum(height, width)
    image = tf.image.crop_to_bounding_box(
        data["image"],
        (height - crop_size) // 2,
        (width - crop_size) // 2,
        crop_size,
        crop_size,
    )
    image = tf.image.resize(

--- Strana 1050 ---
        image, size=[img_size, img_size], antialias=True
    )
    return ops.clip(image / 255.0, 0.0, 1.0)  
Listing 12.2     Preprocessing Data for Stable Diffusion
The dataset preparation pipeline in Listing 12.3 builds an optimized
data flow for training. The parallel preprocessing with AUTOTUNE
ensures image processing doesn’t become a bottleneck during
training. Caching stores processed images in memory to avoid
redundant preprocessing on repeated epochs. The repeat operation
multiplies our dataset size, which is essential because diffusion
models require extensive training data to learn the complex noise-to-
image mapping. Shuffling with a large buffer prevents the model
from learning spurious patterns based on data ordering. As you’ll see
in a little while, all of these steps are required to make Stable
Diffusion work. The computation requirements for this large model
are such that, if you skip a single optimization, you can significantly
increase the training time.
def prepare_dataset(split):
    return (
        tfds.load(dataset_name, split=split, 
shuffle_files=True)
        .map(preprocess_img, 
num_parallel_calls=tf.data.AUTOTUNE)
        .cache()
        .repeat(ds_repetitions)
        .shuffle(10 * batch_size)
        .batch(batch_size, drop_remainder=True)
        .prefetch(buffer_size=tf.data.AUTOTUNE)

--- Strana 1051 ---
    )
train_dataset = prepare_dataset(
    "train[:80%]+test[:80%]"
)
val_dataset = prepare_dataset(
    "train[80%:]+test[80%:]"
)  
Listing 12.3     Dataset Preparation and Splits
12.3.2    Setting Up an Evaluation Measure
When we’re training a diffusion model to generate images, we face a
unique challenge: How do we measure whether our generated
images are actually good? Unlike classification, where we can simply
count correct predictions, evaluating generated images requires
more sophisticated thinking. Consider an art teacher grading student
paintings. There’s no direct way to just measure technical accuracy
because the teacher needs to assess whether the paintings look
realistic, appear diverse, and capture the essence of what they’re
supposed to represent. This is exactly the challenge we face with
generated images. The solution is the Kernel Inception Distance
(KID). This metric is going to be our art critic for generated images.
KID works by using a pretrained neural network that has already
learned to understand visual features from millions of images. This
network acts like an experienced art expert who can immediately
recognize the difference between amateur and professional work.

--- Strana 1052 ---
KID approaches the evaluation by taking both real images and our
generated images, running them through this expert visual network,
and extracting high-level feature representations. These features
capture the essential visual qualities that make images look natural
and realistic. The clever part is how KID compares these feature
sets. Rather than simply measuring average differences, it uses a
mathematical technique called kernel methods to compare the
overall distributions of features. This approach captures whether our
generated images have the same kind of visual richness and variety
as real images.
What makes KID particularly valuable is its sensitivity to both quality
and diversity. A model that generates only one perfect image over
and over would score poorly, as would a model that generates
diverse but unrealistic images. KID rewards models that can produce
both high-quality and varied outputs, exactly what we want from our
diffusion model. Let’s see the implementation of this in Listing 12.4.
The KID class extends Keras’s metric system, giving us a tool that
can evaluate our generated images throughout training.
The encoder pipeline creates our visual system using InceptionV3, a
powerful network trained on ImageNet’s millions of images. We’re
essentially borrowing the visual expertise that Google’s researchers
spent enormous computational resources developing. The
preprocessing steps ensure our images match exactly what
InceptionV3 expects—proper scaling, sizing, and input format.
Notice how we remove the top classification layers with
include_top=False. We don’t want InceptionV3 to classify our flowers

--- Strana 1053 ---
as, say, daisy or rose—we want to use its deeper understanding of
visual features. These are output as the GlobalAveragePooling2D
layer that gives us a compact feature representation that captures
the essential visual qualities of each image.
[»]  A Special Case of Transfer Learning
The use of Inception V3 inside KID is a special case of transfer
learning where we employ a pretrained model to perform tasks it
wasn’t originally designed for. Rather than using the model for its
intended purpose, we use its learned representations for entirely
different applications. In Chapter 8, Section 8.4, we explored the
detailed mechanics of using transfer learning for feature
extraction. You might want to revisit that section for a refresher on
the underlying principles and implementation strategies.
The polynomial_kernel function implements the mathematical
comparison we described earlier. Rather than simply measuring
distances between individual feature vectors feats_1 and feats_2,
this kernel function evaluates how similar the overall patterns are
between our real and generated image features. The cubic
polynomial amplifies meaningful differences while being robust to
noise. Instead of checking if each painting matches exactly, we’re
asking the following: “Do these two portfolios show the same level of
artistic sophistication and variety?” This captures both quality and
diversity in a single mathematical framework.

--- Strana 1054 ---
@keras.saving.register_keras_serializable()
class KID(keras.metrics.Metric):
    def __init__(self, name, **kwargs):
        super().__init__(name=name, **kwargs)
        self.kid_tracker = 
keras.metrics.Mean(name="kid_tracker")
        self.encoder = keras.Sequential(
            [
                keras.Input(shape=(img_size, img_size, 3)),
                layers.Rescaling(255.0),
                layers.Resizing(
                    height=kid_img_size, width=kid_img_size
                ),
                layers.Lambda(
                    keras.applications.inception_v3.
                                            preprocess_input
                ),
                keras.applications.InceptionV3(
                    include_top=False,
                    input_shape=(kid_img_size, kid_img_size, 
3),
                    weights="imagenet",
                ),
                layers.GlobalAveragePooling2D(),
            ],
            name="inception_encoder",
        )
    def polynomial_kernel(self, feats_1, feats_2):
        feat_dims = ops.cast(ops.shape(feats_1)[1], 
                             dtype="float32")

--- Strana 1055 ---
        return (feats_1 @ ops.transpose(feats_2) / 
                 feat_dims + 1.0) ** 3.0  
Listing 12.4     The Kernel Inception Distance Measure: Pretrained Model
Continuing in the KID class, the update_state method in Listing 12.5
performs the actual quality assessment. First, both real and
generated images get processed through our InceptionV3 encoder,
extracting the visual features that capture what makes each image
distinctive. The kernel calculations create three important
comparisons. We compute the following:
How similar real images are to each other
How similar generated images are to each other
How similar real images are to generated images, which is the
most crucial comparison
The diagonal masking with (1.0 - ops.eye(batch_sz)) prevents
images from being compared to themselves, which would artificially
inflate similarity scores. The final KID calculation follows a specific
mathematical pattern: We add the internal similarities of real and
generated images, and then subtract twice the cross-similarity. This
formula captures a key insight—if our generated images truly match
the real distribution, the cross-similarity should be high enough to
make the KID score approach 0. A low KID score means our
diffusion model has learned to create images that are statistically
indistinguishable from the real dataset.

--- Strana 1056 ---
def update_state(self, real_imgs, gen_imgs, 
sample_weight=None):
    real_feats = self.encoder(real_imgs, training=False)
    gen_feats = self.encoder(gen_imgs, training=False)
    kernel_real = self.polynomial_kernel(real_feats, 
real_feats)
    kernel_gen = self.polynomial_kernel(gen_feats, gen_feats)
    kernel_cross = self.polynomial_kernel(real_feats, 
gen_feats)
    batch_sz = real_feats.shape[0]
    batch_sz_f = ops.cast(batch_sz, dtype="float32")
    mean_kernel_real = ops.sum(
        kernel_real * (1.0 - ops.eye(batch_sz))
    ) / (batch_sz_f * (batch_sz_f - 1.0))
    mean_kernel_gen = ops.sum(
        kernel_gen * (1.0 - ops.eye(batch_sz))
    ) / (batch_sz_f * (batch_sz_f - 1.0))
    mean_kernel_cross = ops.mean(kernel_cross)
    kid_val = (
        mean_kernel_real + mean_kernel_gen – 
             2.0 * mean_kernel_cross
    )
    self.kid_tracker.update_state(kid_val)
def result(self):
    return self.kid_tracker.result()
def reset_state(self):
    self.kid_tracker.reset_state()  
Listing 12.5     Updating States in the KID

--- Strana 1057 ---
The @keras.saving.register_keras_serializable() decorator
ensures our custom KID metric can be properly saved and restored
with our model. Because we established that diffusion training runs
for extended periods with inevitable session interruptions, this
decorator becomes essential for our checkpoint strategy. Without it,
Keras wouldn’t know how to reconstruct our custom evaluation
component when loading a saved model, breaking our training
pipeline at restart.
[+]  Functionality Enhancement Through Decorators
Decorators are an advanced Python feature that modify the
functionality of existing functions without changing their original
code. They use the @decorator_name syntax and wrap the original
function to add new behavior such as logging, timing, or
authentication. This allows you to enhance functions cleanly while
keeping the original implementation intact. Here, we’re using a
specialized decorator from Keras to enable proper compatibility
with the rest of Keras model handling.
12.3.3    Model Description and Time-Step Encodings
With the evaluation mechanism out of the way, we turn our attention
to another unique communication challenge. Our model needs to tell
every part of the network that “we’re at time step 247 out of 1000” in
a language that neural networks understand. The sinusoidal
embedding function in Listing 12.6 enables this crucial element.

--- Strana 1058 ---
Previously in Chapter 9, we discussed position encodings in
transformers. This follows the same elegant principle, but now we’re
encoding time instead of position. The function creates a rich,
multidimensional representation of each time step using
mathematical waves at different frequencies.
The logarithmic spacing of frequencies creates embeddings that
capture both fine-grained timing (high frequencies) and broader
temporal patterns (low frequencies). The sine and cosine pairs
ensure that nearby time steps have similar embeddings while
maintaining uniqueness across the entire range. This embedding
gets broadcast across the entire image, giving every pixel location
access to precise temporal information. Our U-Net can then use this
time step context to adjust its denoising strategy—being more
aggressive early in the process when there’s lots of noise and more
careful near the end when fine details matter most.
def sinusoidal_embedding(x):
    embed_min_freq = 1.0
    frequencies = ops.exp(
        ops.linspace(
            ops.log(embed_min_freq),
            ops.log(embed_max_freq),
            embed_dims // 2,
        )
    )
    angular_speeds = ops.cast(2.0 * math.pi * frequencies, 
                              "float32")
    embeddings = ops.concatenate(
        [ops.sin(angular_speeds * x), 

--- Strana 1059 ---
         ops.cos(angular_speeds * x)],
        axis=3,
    )
    return embeddings  
Listing 12.6     Time Step Function
The residual block in Listing 12.7 forms the backbone of our U-Net’s
processing power. What makes this particularly interesting for
diffusion models is the choice of Swish activation over the traditional
Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU). Swish provides smoother gradients
during the delicate denoising process, helping our model make more
nuanced decisions about which details to preserve or remove. The
batch normalization here uses center=False and scale=False. These
are options for customizing batch normalizing and stripping away the
learned scaling parameters. This choice prevents the normalization
from interfering with the careful noise predictions that diffusion
models rely on. Finally, the width adjustment at the beginning
handles channel dimension mismatches as we move through
different scales of the U-Net architecture. This flexible approach
allows our architecture to seamlessly transition between the varying
feature representations needed for effective denoising at multiple
resolutions.
def residual_block(width):
    def apply(x):
        input_width = x.shape[3]
        if input_width == width:
            residual = x
        else:

--- Strana 1060 ---
            residual = layers.Conv2D(width, kernel_size=1)(x)
        x = layers.BatchNormalization(center=False, 
                                      scale=False)(x)
        x = layers.Conv2D(
            width, kernel_size=3, padding="same", 
            activation="swish"
        )(x)
        x = layers.Conv2D(width, kernel_size=3, 
                          padding="same")(x)
        x = layers.Add()([x, residual])
        return x
    return apply  
Listing 12.7     Residual Block for the U-Net Model
This residual block will be incorporated in the down_block and
up_block in Listing 12.8 to create the distinctive U-shaped
information flow that gives U-Net its name. Information travels down
to gather broad context and then travels back up to restore fine
details. We’ve covered U-Net in detail in Chapter 7, so we’ll only go
through the model briefly here. The down block processes features
at each resolution while storing copies in the skips list before moving
to a coarser scale. The up block reverses this operation with an
important addition. As it scales back up using bilinear interpolation, it
retrieves those stored features from the skip connections. This
creates information fusion where broad context from the bottom of
the U combines with preserved details from the corresponding down
level.

--- Strana 1061 ---
To enable flexibility in code, each block depth parameter controls
how many residual layers process the information at each scale,
allowing us to adjust the network’s capacity for different levels of
detail.
def down_block(width, b_depth):
    def apply(x):
        x, skips = x
        for _ in range(b_depth):
            x = residual_block(width)(x)
            skips.append(x)
        x = layers.AveragePooling2D(pool_size=2)(x)
        return x
    return apply
def up_block(width, b_depth):
    def apply(x):
        x, skips = x
        x = layers.UpSampling2D(size=2, 
interpolation="bilinear")(x)
        for _ in range(b_depth):
            x = layers.Concatenate()([x, skips.pop()])
            x = residual_block(width)(x)
        return x
    return apply  
Listing 12.8     Downscaling and Upscaling Blocks for U-Net
The network assembly function in Listing 12.9 brings together all of
our building blocks into a complete denoising system. Our network
has two key inputs: noisy images and noise variance values. The
noise variance tells our network how much noise it’s dealing with at

--- Strana 1062 ---
any given time step. We transform this single number into rich spatial
information by creating sinusoidal embeddings and broadcasting
them across the entire image dimensions using nearest-neighbor
upsampling.
The network begins by projecting the input image into our feature
space with a simple convolution, and then it immediately fuses the
input with the time step information through concatenation. This early
fusion ensures that every subsequent operation knows exactly what
level of noise it’s working with. The U-Net structure unfolds as we
descend through progressively wider feature representations,
capturing context at multiple scales. At the bottom of the U, we apply
additional residual processing to the deepest, most abstract features.
Then, we ascend back up, combining deep understanding with
preserved spatial details through our skip connections.
The final output layer uses zero initialization, which helps training
stability by ensuring our network starts by predicting no change. This
gives the training process a neutral starting point rather than random
predictions that could disrupt early learning.
def get_network(img_size, widths, b_depth):
    noisy_imgs = keras.Input(shape=(img_size, img_size, 3))
    noise_vars = keras.Input(shape=(1, 1, 1))
    e = layers.Lambda(sinusoidal_embedding, 
                      output_shape=(1, 1, 32))(noise_vars
    )
    e = layers.UpSampling2D(size=img_size, 
                            interpolation="nearest")(e)

--- Strana 1063 ---
    x = layers.Conv2D(widths[0], kernel_size=1)(noisy_imgs)
    x = layers.Concatenate()([x, e])
    skips = []
    for width in widths[:-1]:
        x = down_block(width, b_depth)([x, skips])
    for _ in range(b_depth):
        x = residual_block(widths[-1])(x)
    for width in reversed(widths[:-1]):
        x = up_block(width, b_depth)([x, skips])
    x = layers.Conv2D(3, kernel_size=1, 
                      kernel_initializer="zeros")(x)
    return keras.Model([noisy_imgs, noise_vars], 
                       x, 
                       name="residual_unet")  
Listing 12.9     Assembling the U-Net Model from Parts
12.3.4    Diffusion and Reverse Diffusion
With the U-Net denoiser and KID evaluation metric prepared, the
DiffusionModel class in Listing 12.10 brings together everything
we’ve built into a unified system. This class extends Keras’s Model
class, giving us all the standard training machinery while adding the
specialized components that make diffusion work. Notice that the
initialization creates two identical networks. Our main network learns

--- Strana 1064 ---
aggressively during training, updating its weights with each batch.
The ema_network takes a more conservative approach, slowly
incorporating changes through exponential moving averaging (EMA)
The main network experiments and learns quickly, while the EMA
network maintains stability and provides reliable guidance.
The normalizer handles the statistical properties of our training data.
We’ve seen this pattern before in other neural networks—keeping
our data in a consistent range helps the model learn more effectively.
The network will learn these statistics automatically during training.
Our compile method sets up the metrics we’ll track during training.
The noise_loss measures how well we predict the random noise that
was added to images. The image_loss tracks how accurately we can
reconstruct clean images from noisy inputs. Combined with our KID
metric, we get a comprehensive view of both the learning process
and the final generation quality.
The denormalize method serves as our bridge back to the real world.
After all of our internal processing with normalized values, this
function converts our network’s outputs back into actual pixel values
that we can display and evaluate.
@keras.saving.register_keras_serializable()
class DiffusionModel(keras.Model):
    def __init__(self, img_size, widths, b_depth):
        super().__init__()
        self.normalizer = layers.Normalization()
        self.network = get_network(img_size, widths, b_depth)
        self.ema_network = 
keras.models.clone_model(self.network)

--- Strana 1065 ---
    def compile(self, **kwargs):
        super().compile(**kwargs)
        self.noise_loss_tracker = keras.metrics.
                                   Mean(name="n_loss")
        self.image_loss_tracker = keras.metrics.
                                   Mean(name="i_loss")
        self.kid = KID(name="kid")
    @property
    def metrics(self):
        return [self.noise_loss_tracker, 
                self.image_loss_tracker, 
                self.kid]
    def denormalize(self, images):
        images = self.normalizer.mean + images * 
                 self.normalizer.variance**0.5
        return ops.clip(images, 0.0, 1.0)  
Listing 12.10     Merging Components in the DiffusionModel Class
The diffusion schedule—an important aspect of the diffusion process
—in Listing 12.11 implements the cosine noise schedule we
discussed in Section 12.1.2 earlier. The function maps diffusion time
steps to angles using arccos, and then applies trigonometric
functions to compute signal and noise rates. This approach ensures
smooth transitions and maintains the mathematical constraint that
signal and noise rates are complementary. The cosine schedule
provides better training stability compared to linear schedules. Early
time steps have high signal rates and low noise rates, while later

--- Strana 1066 ---
time steps reverse this relationship. The smooth progression
prevents abrupt changes that could destabilize training.
The denoise method on the other hand, performs the core noise
prediction and image reconstruction. During training, it uses the
actively updating network, while inference relies on the more stable
EMA network. The network receives noisy images and noise
variance as inputs, outputting predicted noise.
The reconstruction formula implements the mathematical
relationship we established: Given a noisy image as a mixture of
clean image and noise, we subtract the predicted noise component
and rescale by the signal rate to recover the original image. This
calculation directly follows from our diffusion process formulation.
def diff_schedule(self, diff_times):
    start_angle = ops.cast(ops.arccos(max_sig_rate), "float32")
    end_angle = ops.cast(ops.arccos(min_sig_rate), "float32")
    diff_angles = start_angle + diff_times * (
        end_angle - start_angle
    )
    sig_rates = ops.cos(diff_angles)
    noise_rates = ops.sin(diff_angles)
    return noise_rates, sig_rates
def denoise(self, noisy_imgs, noise_rates, sig_rates, 
training):
    if training:
        network = self.network
    else:
        network = self.ema_network
    pred_noises = network(

--- Strana 1067 ---
        [noisy_imgs, noise_rates**2], training=training
    )
    pred_imgs = (noisy_imgs - noise_rates * pred_noises) /
                sig_rates
    return pred_noises, pred_imgs  
Listing 12.11     The Diffusion Process and Denoising
12.3.5    The Generation Engine
The reverse_diffusion method in Listing 12.12 represents the
ultimate goal of our entire training process—this is where random
noise is transformed into meaningful images after the training has
been completed. Once our model has learned to predict noise
accurately during training, this function becomes our primary
generation tool. The process begins with pure random noise and
systematically removes noise over a specified number of steps.
Each iteration calculates the current time step and applies our
diffusion schedule to determine the appropriate noise and signal
rates for that moment in the reverse process. The core operation
happens in the denoise call studied earlier.
After prediction, the function calculates the next state by mixing the
predicted clean image with the predicted noise according to the rates
for the next time step. This creates a controlled progression from
high noise to low noise, with each step bringing us closer to a final
clean image. This gradual approach leverages the network’s training
on similar small denoising steps.

--- Strana 1068 ---
When training completes successfully, this function becomes our
image generator. We feed it random noise, and it produces novel
images that match the statistical properties of our training dataset,
creating new flower images that never existed before but look
convincingly real. We’ll show a few of the samples of our model’s
generation in a little while.
def reverse_diffusion(self, initial_noise, diff_steps):
    num_imgs = initial_noise.shape[0]
    step_size = 1.0 / diff_steps
    next_noisy_imgs = initial_noise
    for step in range(diff_steps):
        noisy_imgs = next_noisy_imgs
        diff_times = ops.ones((num_imgs, 1, 1, 1)) – 
                     step * step_size
        noise_rates, sig_rates = self.diff_schedule(diff_times)
        pred_noises, pred_imgs = self.denoise(
            noisy_imgs, noise_rates, sig_rates, training=False
        )
        next_diff_times = diff_times - step_size
        next_noise_rates, next_sig_rates = self.diff_schedule(
            next_diff_times
        )
        next_noisy_imgs = (
            next_sig_rates * pred_imgs + 
            next_noise_rates * pred_noises
        )
    return pred_imgs  
Listing 12.12     Applying Denoising in Reverse Diffusion

--- Strana 1069 ---
The generate method in Listing 12.13 provides our clean interface to
the entire diffusion system. This function encapsulates all the
complexity we’ve built into a straightforward three-step process:
1. We create random noise tensors with the exact dimensions
needed for our model. The noise follows a standard normal
distribution, providing the chaotic starting point that our trained
network will systematically transform. Each tensor contains
completely random values, giving us the raw material for
generation.
2. The reverse_diffusion call performs the actual transformation
work. This step uses all of our trained parameters and learned
denoising capabilities to convert random noise into structured
image data. The number of diffusion steps determines the
quality-speed trade-off—more steps generally produce better
results but require more computation time.
3. Finally, denormalize converts our internal representation back to
standard image format. Our network operates on normalized
data for training stability, but we need pixel values in the 0–1
range for display and evaluation purposes.
def generate(self, num_imgs, diff_steps):
    initial_noise = keras.random.normal(
        shape=(num_imgs, img_size, img_size, 3)
    )
    gen_imgs = self.reverse_diffusion(initial_noise, 
diff_steps)

--- Strana 1070 ---
    gen_imgs = self.denormalize(gen_imgs)
    return gen_imgs  
Listing 12.13     Wrapper Method for Image Generation
[+]  Designing for Larger Ecosystems
The generate function represents the user-facing interface to our
entire diffusion system. After training completes, researchers and
practitioners will primarily interact with this simple API to generate
new images, abstracting away the mathematical complexity of the
underlying diffusion process. It’s always a good idea to provide
these interfaces because, ultimately, the whole point of creating
and training these models is to use them in the engineering of
other, larger ecosystems.
The train_step method in Listing 12.14 implements the forward
diffusion process (discussed earlier in our theory sections), but now
in reverse. We’re teaching our network to undo what the forward
process creates. This function represents the heart of how our
model’s trained, and it’s called automatically by Keras as part of the
training process. Each training step begins by normalizing our real
images and generating random noise tensors. We then sample
random time steps uniformly across our diffusion schedule. This
random sampling ensures our network learns to handle denoising at
every level of the process, from barely noisy images to pure chaos.
Using our diffusion schedule, we calculate the noise and signal rates
for the sampled time steps, then create the training examples by

--- Strana 1071 ---
mixing clean images with noise according to these rates. This step
recreates the exact same noisy images that our forward diffusion
process would generate at those specific time steps.
The gradient tape captures our network’s predictions as it attempts
to denoise these artificially corrupted images. We calculate two
losses—one measuring how well we predict the added noise and
another measuring how accurately we can reconstruct the original
clean image. These dual objectives ensure our network learns both
the noise patterns and the underlying image structure. The gradient
computation and application follows standard neural network
training, but with an important addition—the EMA weight updates.
After each training step, we slowly incorporate the current network’s
learned parameters into our more stable EMA network. This EMA
creates a secondary network that changes more gradually, providing
stability during generation. The amount of incorporation of new
information is decided by the ema_weight hyperparameter.
def train_step(self, images):
    images = self.normalizer(images, training=True)
    noises = keras.random.normal(
        shape=(batch_size, img_size, img_size, 3)
    )
    diff_times = keras.random.uniform(
        shape=(batch_size, 1, 1, 1), minval=0.0, maxval=1.0
    )
    noise_rates, sig_rates = self.diff_schedule(diff_times)
    noisy_imgs = sig_rates * images + noise_rates * noises
    with tf.GradientTape() as tape:

--- Strana 1072 ---
        pred_noises, pred_imgs = self.denoise(
            noisy_imgs, noise_rates, sig_rates, training=True
        )
        noise_loss = self.loss(noises, pred_noises)
        image_loss = self.loss(images, pred_imgs)
    gradients = tape.gradient(
        noise_loss, self.network.trainable_weights
    )
    self.optimizer.apply_gradients(
        zip(gradients, self.network.trainable_weights)
    )
    self.noise_loss_tracker.update_state(noise_loss)
    self.image_loss_tracker.update_state(image_loss)
    for weight, ema_weight 
          in zip(self.network.weights, 
self.ema_network.weights):
        ema_weight.assign(ema * ema_weight + (1 - ema) * 
weight)
    return {m.name: m.result() for m in self.metrics[:-1]}  
Listing 12.14     Step for the Training Loop
The model compilation in Listing 12.15 instantiates the diffusion
system by specifying the optimization algorithm. The AdamW
optimizer is an upgrade over standard Adam. The W stands for
weight decay, which addresses a critical challenge in training large
neural networks. During training, neural networks can develop a
tendency to rely too heavily on specific weights, making them brittle
and prone to overfitting. Weight decay acts as a regularization
mechanism, continuously applying a small penalty that encourages

--- Strana 1073 ---
weights to stay reasonable in magnitude. For diffusion models
specifically, weight decay becomes essential because these
networks must learn incredibly complex mappings from noise to data
across thousands of different time steps. Without proper
regularization, the model might memorize specific noise patterns
rather than learning the underlying generative process. Weight
decay keeps the learning process focused on generalizable patterns
rather than dataset-specific artifacts.
As always, the learning rate parameter controls how aggressively
our model updates its weights during training. For diffusion models,
this balance becomes particularly delicate—too high, and the model
might overshoot optimal solutions during the intricate denoising
process; too low, and training becomes prohibitively slow for the
already demanding computationally intensive models.
model = DiffusionModel(img_size, widths, block_depth)
model.compile(
    optimizer=keras.optimizers.AdamW(
        learning_rate=learn_rate, weight_decay=weight_decay
    ),
    loss=keras.losses.mean_absolute_error,
)  
Listing 12.15     Instantiating and Compiling the Model
The checkpoint configuration in Listing 12.16 addresses the
practicality issues we discussed earlier. Diffusion models require
extensive training time that often exceeds Colab’s session limits.
This callback system provides our insurance against losing valuable

--- Strana 1074 ---
training progress. The checkpoint_path directs our model weights to
persistent Google Drive storage, ensuring they survive session
resets. We save only the weights rather than the complete model
structure, which reduces file size. The save_best_only=True
parameter ensures we maintain only the highest-quality version of
our model. As training progresses and our KID scores fluctuate, this
mechanism automatically preserves the iteration that produced the
most realistic images according to our evaluation metric. This means
that you can start the training process during the night, get a good
eight hours sleep, and come back to a model that is actually
generating flowers. Not only will the model be trained, but you’ll also
have the trained weights saved persistently in your Google Drive.
The loading code demonstrates the restoration process for
continuing training after session interruptions. The model.build() call
initializes the model architecture with proper input shapes. This is
necessary for enabling Keras to load weights into a model that has
custom components and hasn’t yet been initialized (as will be the
case when you’re starting from scratch later). This checkpoint
strategy is essential for diffusion training, where meaningful progress
might require dozens of hours. Without this safeguard, session
timeouts would force us to restart training from scratch, wasting
enormous computational resources and making practical
experimentation impossible on free cloud platforms.
checkpoint_path = "/content/drive/MyDrive/colab-data/
                     keras-book/diffusion_model.weights.h5"
checkpoint_callback = keras.callbacks.ModelCheckpoint(

--- Strana 1075 ---
    filepath=checkpoint_path,
    save_weights_only=True,
    monitor="val_kid",
    mode="min",
    save_best_only=True,
)
# we can load it later using the following 
model.build(input_shape=(None, img_size, img_size, 3))
model.load_weights(checkpoint_path)  
Listing 12.16     Saving and Loading Model Weights for Continuing Training
An important aspect of diffusion models is understanding the
statistical landscape of the target dataset. This is achieved using the
normalizer component shown in Listing 12.17. Our model needs to
understand the statistical landscape of our training data—what’s
typical, what’s unusual, and how the data is distributed across
different ranges. When we call
model.normalizer.adapt(train_dataset), we’re giving our model a
chance to examine the entire training dataset and learn its statistical
fingerprint. The normalizer calculates the mean and variance of pixel
values across all of our flower images, building an internal
understanding of what “normal” looks like in our dataset.
# Calculate mean and variance for normalization
model.normalizer.adapt(train_dataset)  
Listing 12.17     Understanding the Statistical Landscape of Data

--- Strana 1076 ---
12.3.6    Following Progress in the Training Process
We’re now ready to actually start the training. The execution in
Listing 12.18 launches our model into its training loop, where
thousands of flower images will be turned noisy. As always, our
training setup includes both training and validation datasets, allowing
our model to learn from one set of images while testing its progress
on another. The callbacks serve as our training assistants, each with
a specific mission. The LambdaCallback triggers our plot_images
function at the end of each epoch, giving us visual feedback on our
model’s creative progress. We’ve omitted this function from code
listings for the sake of saving space. You can see the full code in the
book resources. For now, it’s enough to know that plot_images does
as the name implies—it generates a few images after each epoch
and plots them so that we can monitor progress of our generation
visually. Watching these generated images evolve from pure noise to
recognizable flowers provides immediate insight into how well our
diffusion process is learning.
Our checkpoint callback stands guard throughout training,
automatically saving our best-performing model weights based on
validation KID scores.
[+]  Start with Only a Few Epochs
When experimenting with code of such large models, it’s generally
a good idea to start with a couple of epochs to make sure that the
model is progressing in the right direction. While the code provided

--- Strana 1077 ---
with this book will work fine, you might want to change the
hyperparameters and the model architecture to fully understand
the workings of this complex beast. When you do this, it’s best to
start with two to three epochs to make sure the model is working
fine before you start the full training loop.
When this training completes, we’ll have hopefully transformed our
random initialization into a sophisticated system capable of
generating entirely new flower images that capture the essence of
our training data. (During our runs, it took about 65 epochs and three
days of loading weights from checkpoints to get to acceptable
results. We’ll get to this discussion in a while.)
model.fit(
    train_dataset,
    epochs=30,
    validation_data=val_dataset,
    callbacks=[
        
keras.callbacks.LambdaCallback(on_epoch_end=model.plot_images),
        checkpoint_callback, # Added checkpoint callback
    ],
)  
Listing 12.18     Training the Model

--- Strana 1078 ---
These initial training results after the first epoch show exactly what
we’d expect from our diffusion model in its earliest stages—pure,
colorful chaos. Take a look at Figure 12.3.
Figure 12.3     Initial Generation After a Single Epoch of Training
Each image represents our network’s first attempts at generation. If
you look carefully, you’ll notice that these aren’t purely uniform
random pixels. Even in this apparent chaos, there are subtle
variations in density and intensity across different regions of each
image. Some areas appear slightly more saturated, others show faint
clustering of similar colors. These tiny variations become the seeds
from which our model will learn to recognize and amplify meaningful
patterns.
Our network is starting with absolutely no understanding of what a
flower should look like. It has no concept of petals, stems, or natural
color combinations. Right now, it’s simply learning the statistical
fingerprint of our training data—understanding that certain color
combinations appear more frequently than others, that natural
images have specific noise characteristics, and that there are
underlying structures worth preserving.

--- Strana 1079 ---
This chaotic starting point is actually perfect—it demonstrates that
our model hasn’t memorized any specific images and is truly
learning to generate from scratch. The shift from this noise to
beautiful flower images will showcase the incredible power of the
diffusion learning process.
Figure 12.4 shows the images generated after just 10 epochs. Our
diffusion model has made remarkable progress from random noise
to meaningful imagery.
Figure 12.4     Image Generation Results After 10 Epochs
The first time, we can squint our eyes and say, “Yes, I can see some
flower-like objects beginning to emerge.” Look closely at these
results, and you’ll notice something interesting. While these images
don’t yet have the crisp clarity of professional flower photography,
they capture something far more important—the essence of what
makes a flower look like a flower. The color patterns are right, with
natural transitions from darker backgrounds to brighter petals. The
spatial arrangements suggest the organic clustering we’d expect
from floral structures. The blurriness and abstract quality we’re
seeing isn’t a failure—it’s exactly what we’d expect (and want) at this

--- Strana 1080 ---
stage. Our model is still learning to balance the complex relationship
between removing noise and preserving meaningful details.
This progression from pure chaos to recognizable patterns
demonstrates the incredible power of the diffusion learning process.
Our model is developing an internal understanding of what being a
flower means, building up this knowledge through millions of small
denoising decisions across thousands of training examples.
After 65 epochs and multiple checkpointing sessions due to Colab’s
time limits, our diffusion model has achieved remarkable results, as
shown in Figure 12.5. Looking at these final generated images,
we’ve crossed a crucial threshold—these are genuinely convincing
flowers that could fool a casual observer. The transformation from
our earlier abstract attempts to these crisp, detailed blooms
represents thousands of hours of computational learning condensed
into visible progress. Each image now displays the hallmarks of
photographic realism: individual petals with natural curves, realistic
lighting, and shadows, proper depth of field effects, and color
gradients that feel organic rather than artificial.
Figure 12.5     Images Generated After 65 Epochs

--- Strana 1081 ---
What makes this achievement even more remarkable is that we’ve
built this entire system from scratch. Apart from the pretrained
InceptionV3 weights we borrowed for our KID evaluation metric,
every single parameter in our diffusion model learned its knowledge
through our training process. We didn’t start with a massive
foundation model or transfer learning from existing image
generators. Instead, we watched our network develop its
understanding of flowers, noise patterns, and visual composition
entirely through its own experience with our training data. While we
can still spot occasional inconsistencies if we look closely—perhaps
a petal that doesn’t quite follow natural curves or lighting that seems
slightly off—these generated images represent a technological
achievement that would have been impossible just a few years ago.
We’re watching AI create photorealistic content from pure
mathematical noise, with no human guidance beyond the training
examples it learned from.
Finally, to drive this point home, we can see our reverse diffusion
process captured in a single sequence. Starting with pure random
noise, our trained model transforms it step-by-step into a
recognizable image. Look at Figure 12.6 for this progression. The
process happens gradually rather than all at once. In the first few
steps, the changes are subtle—slight shifts in color distribution and
hints of structure beginning to form. The chaotic rainbow of pixels
starts organizing itself into warmer, more natural tones as the model

--- Strana 1082 ---
applies its learned knowledge about which patterns typically appear
together in flower images.
Figure 12.6     Progression from Noise to a Realistic Image in Stable Diffusion
By the middle steps, you can see the random pixels forming into
regions that suggest depth and organic shapes. The model is
essentially using everything it learned about color relationships and
spatial patterns during training to guide the denoising process.
The final image shows the complete transformation from
mathematical randomness into a convincing flower with natural
lighting and realistic petals. Each step represents a decision about
which details to preserve and which noise to remove, guided by the
statistical patterns the model absorbed from thousands of training
examples.
This step-by-step process shows how diffusion models generate
images through a controlled, deliberate approach rather than
creating them all at once. In the next section, we’ll explore how this
same process can be enhanced with text conditioning, allowing us to
guide the generation with specific descriptions and prompts.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1083 ---
12.4    Case Study: Image Generation
Before we explore prompt-based image generation, we need to
address a significant hurdle in our workflow. The model we just
trained, while impressive in its results, contained 3,907,014
parameters and took three full days to complete training. When we
scale this up to understand the computational requirements for state-
of-the-art models with billions of parameters, the math becomes
sobering—our current setup would require approximately 8.5 years
to train a 3-billion parameter model. The challenges extend beyond
just training time. Models with billions of parameters demand
enormous amounts of RAM simply to load into memory, often
requiring tens of gigabytes that far exceed what’s available on
standard hardware. The training data itself becomes another
bottleneck, as these larger models typically require massive datasets
that can overwhelm storage and memory systems.
For those working with Google Colab’s free tier, there’s currently no
practical workaround for these computational limitations. The
hardware constraints are simply too restrictive for training or even
running large-scale diffusion models that power modern text-to-
image generation systems.
However, we’ll still walk through the code architecture for prompt-
based generation, providing you with the theoretical foundation and
implementation knowledge you’ll need. While you may not be able to

--- Strana 1084 ---
run these models immediately without access to appropriate
hardware, understanding their structure and training process
prepares you for when you do have access to adequate
computational resources—whether through research funding, cloud
computing credits, or more powerful hardware.
We’ll also discuss practical alternatives for experimenting with these
concepts using existing platforms that provide pretrained models,
though these won’t offer the same flexibility as writing and training
your own implementations. The goal is ensuring you understand the
underlying mechanics, so when the opportunity arises to work with
sufficient compute resources, you can transition from theory to
practice seamlessly.
12.4.1    Loading Pretrained Models from Keras Hub
To work with larger, pretrained diffusion models, we’ll use Keras Hub
—a powerful ecosystem that shouldn’t be confused with Kaggle Hub,
which we explored in Chapter 9. While Kaggle Hub focuses on
datasets and competitions, Keras Hub serves as a comprehensive
repository for state-of-the-art machine learning models.
Because Google Colab doesn’t include Keras Hub by default, we
need to install it first using the magic command !pip install keras-
hub. You can view the full code listing on the book resources page at
https://recluze.net/keras-book in the notebook 12-02-prompt-based-
images.

--- Strana 1085 ---
Keras Hub provides access to pretrained models across various
domains—from language models and computer vision to audio
processing and multimodal systems. For our diffusion work, it offers
several advantages over building everything from scratch. The
platform includes optimized implementations of complex
architectures, pretrained weights from models trained on massive
datasets, and standardized APIs that make it easy to load, fine-tune,
and deploy sophisticated models. What makes Keras Hub
particularly valuable for diffusion models is its collection of text-to-
image generators that have already undergone the computationally
intensive training process we can’t replicate on free hardware. These
models come with their text encoders, diffusion networks, and VAE
components already trained and ready for inference or fine-tuning.
The hub also provides preprocessing pipelines, tokenizers, and other
essential components that ensure compatibility between different
parts of complex multimodal systems. Rather than implementing
these from scratch and dealing with the intricate details of model
architecture and weight loading, we can focus on understanding how
these systems work and experimenting with their capabilities. After
having worked through this book’s code, you already understand
these components. Keras Hub will enable you to now work with them
efficiently without sacrificing the deeper understanding.

--- Strana 1086 ---
12.4.2    Loading Models Through Keras Hub
With Keras Hub available, we can load a pretrained text-to-image
model using Keras Hub’s streamlined interface, as shown in
Listing 12.19. The from_preset() method loads the complete Stable
Diffusion 3 model with pretrained weights. The
stable_diffusion_3_medium preset specifies which model variant to
use—this medium version balances quality and computational
requirements. The dtype="float16" argument reduces memory
usage by using half-precision floating point numbers, essential for
running large models on limited hardware.
Interestingly, Keras Hub offers several other model presets beyond
Stable Diffusion, including various language models such as Gemma
(that we saw in Chapter 9) and BERT, vision models such as ResNet
and EfficientNet, and other generative models. For text-to-image
specifically, you’ll find different Stable Diffusion variants and other
diffusion architectures, each optimized for different use cases and
computational constraints.
The elegance of this approach lies in its simplicity—a single line
loads a multibillion parameter model that would have taken us years
to train from scratch. This model includes the text encoder that
processes our prompts, the diffusion U-Net that performs the
denoising, and the VAE that converts between latent and pixel
spaces. Instead of using this from_preset method, we can also
exercise more flexibility by specifying other options as we’ll see in a
minute.

--- Strana 1087 ---
text_to_image = keras_hub.models.
                  StableDiffusion3TextToImage.from_preset(
                           "stable_diffusion_3_medium", 
                           dtype="float16", 
                           verbose=True)  
Listing 12.19     Loading a Model Through Keras Hub
Before generating images, we’ll set up a helper function for
displaying our results. The function in Listing 12.20 handles different
image formats that our model might return. For single images (3D
arrays), it displays them directly. For multiple images (4D arrays or
lists), it concatenates them horizontally for side-by-side comparison.
The function is flexible enough to work with various output formats
from different models. You can modify this helper function as needed
—perhaps to create image grids instead of horizontal strips, add
titles, or save images to files rather than just displaying them.
def display_generated_images(images):
    display_image = None
    if isinstance(images, np.ndarray):
        if images.ndim == 3:
            display_image = Image.fromarray(images)
        elif images.ndim == 4:
            concated_images = np.concatenate(list(images), 
axis=1)
            display_image = Image.fromarray(concated_images)
    elif isinstance(images, list):
        concated_images = np.concatenate(images, axis=1)
        display_image = Image.fromarray(concated_images)
    if display_image is None:

--- Strana 1088 ---
        raise ValueError("Unsupported input format.")
    plt.figure(figsize=(10, 10))
    plt.axis("off")
    plt.imshow(display_image)
    plt.show()
    plt.close()  
Listing 12.20     Helper Function to Display Generated Images
12.4.3    Using Stable Diffusion Models
As mentioned before, Keras Hub is quite flexible. While we can use
a single line to load a model, we can also assemble our text-to-
image system by constructing its three essential components
separately, as shown in Listing 12.21. Recall the backbone concept
from Chapter 9. We learned there that the backbone contains the
essential model weights and layers, while other components handle
specific tasks such as preprocessing. Here, it represents the core
neural network architecture that does the heavy lifting—U-Net and its
associated components actually perform the diffusion process. We
specify the output image dimensions (512x512 pixels with three color
channels) and use float16 precision to manage memory efficiently.
The preprocessor handles the text side of our pipeline. It takes our
written prompts and transforms them into the numerical
representations that our model understands, managing tokenization
and encoding behind the scenes. These three components work
together seamlessly. When you provide a text prompt, the

--- Strana 1089 ---
preprocessor converts your words into mathematical form. The
backbone then uses this encoded text to guide its diffusion process,
conditioning each denoising step based on your description. Finally,
the complete text_to_image model orchestrates this entire workflow,
taking care of the complex coordination between text understanding
and image generation.
This modular approach gives us flexibility—we could swap out
different preprocessors for various text formats or modify the
backbone for different image resolutions, all while maintaining the
same overall architecture.
backbone = keras_hub.models.
                   StableDiffusion3Backbone.from_preset(
                       "stable_diffusion_3_medium", 
                       image_shape=(512, 512, 3), 
                       dtype="float16"
)
preprocessor = keras_hub.models.
                   StableDiffusion3TextToImagePreprocessor
                   .from_preset(
                       "stable_diffusion_3_medium"
)
text_to_image = keras_hub.models.
                   StableDiffusion3TextToImage(
                       backbone, 
                       preprocessor
)  
Listing 12.21     Loading Different Components of a Model Separately

--- Strana 1090 ---
We can now directly run the model to make predictions (i.e.,
generate images) based on the prompts. Take a look at the code in
Listing 12.22. Remember that the backbone is already trained and
the only input it needs from us is a text string that will be encoded by
the transformer. Let’s follow our first example prompt, “a beautiful
landscape with lots of green grass and a flowing river, wide view 4k,”
as it transforms from words into a visual image using the three-
component architecture we discussed earlier.
Recall from our theory section how Stable Diffusion combines three
essential components—text, noise schedule, and time steps. Here,
we see that architecture in action with the latter two components
built-in to the model we just loaded. The process begins with our
preprocessor, which handles the text conditioning we explored in
detail. Just as we discussed, it takes our human language and
converts it into the numerical format that our neural network can
work with. The words “beautiful landscape” get transformed into the
dense numerical vectors that capture their meaning—exactly the
process we illustrated earlier in this chapter and in Chapter 9.
These encoded words then travel to our backbone, implementing the
U-Net architecture. The backbone is very similar to the model we
created from scratch in the previous section. It receives two inputs:
our encoded text description and random noise. This is where the
cross-attention mechanisms we discussed come into play—the
backbone knows how to shape that noise, guided by the text
instructions, to create the image we described. During this process,
the text conditioning works through the attention mechanisms. At

--- Strana 1091 ---
each step of the denoising process, the backbone refers back to our
encoded prompt through those cross-attention layers, ensuring that
the emerging image matches what we described. This is exactly the
text-conditioning process we illustrated when we discussed how
different components of Stable Diffusion work together.
The backbone performs this transformation through the reverse
diffusion process. Each step reduces noise slightly, guided by both
the learned denoising patterns and our text conditioning. The model
applies the same mathematical principles—using the learned
relationships between text descriptions and visual features to guide
each denoising decision.
This transformation works because our model embodies all the
learning relationships we discussed—the connections between
language tokens and visual features, the attention mechanisms that
let text guide image generation, and the diffusion process that
gradually sculpts noise into meaningful imagery.
prompt = """a beautiful landscape with lots of green grass
            and a flowing river, wide view 4k"""
generated_image = text_to_image.generate(prompt)
display_generated_images(generated_image)  
Listing 12.22     Text-Guided Image Generation
The resulting image in Figure 12.7 seems quite impressive and to
the layperson looking at the image without context, there would be

--- Strana 1092 ---
little reason to doubt that this image was created as a result of
removing noise from completely random pixel values.
[ ! ]  Working Around Hardware Limitations
If you’re working with Colab’s free tier, you’ll likely encounter “out
of memory” errors when trying to run these large models. The
hardware simply isn’t equipped to handle the memory demands of
billion-parameter diffusion systems.
For those with access to more powerful resources, you have
several options. Colab Pro offers upgraded runtimes with more
RAM and better GPUs that can handle these models. Cloud
platforms such as Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, or services such
as RunPod provide high-end GPU instances specifically designed
for machine learning workloads.
In the meantime, you can experiment with the same Stable
Diffusion 3 model we’ve been discussing through the Hugging
Face Spaces page at http://s-prs.co/v62404. This lets you test

--- Strana 1093 ---
different prompts and see the results without needing any local
computational resources.
Figure 12.7     Result of Text-to-Image Generation
12.4.4    Beyond Image Generation to More Complex
Workflows
With our text-to-image foundation in place, we can explore more
sophisticated workflows using the same underlying model. One
particularly powerful technique is inpainting—a process that lets us
selectively modify specific regions of existing images while
preserving everything else. Think of inpainting as digital restoration
work, similar to how art conservators carefully repair damaged

--- Strana 1094 ---
paintings. Instead of creating entirely new images from scratch,
we’re taking existing photos and making precise, targeted changes.
You might want to remove an unwanted object from a family photo,
replace a cloudy sky with a sunset, or add elements that weren’t in
the original scene.
Setting aside the ethical considerations of image manipulation for
now, let’s focus on the technical mechanics of how this process
actually works. The beauty of inpainting lies in how cleverly it
leverages our diffusion model’s existing capabilities. The process
begins with three key ingredients:
Your original image
A mask (black-and-white image) that defines which areas you
want to change (areas with white pixels)
A text prompt describing what should appear in those masked
regions
Our diffusion model approaches this challenge with remarkable
elegance. Instead of treating the entire image as a blank canvas, it
uses the unmasked portions as anchor points—areas that must
remain absolutely unchanged. The model then focuses its creative
energy exclusively on the masked regions, generating new content
that seamlessly blends with the existing image. During each step of
the reverse diffusion process, the model performs a careful
balancing act. It applies the denoising process only to the masked
areas while preserving the original pixel values everywhere else.
This creates a natural boundary where new content must

--- Strana 1095 ---
harmoniously connect with existing elements—matching lighting
conditions, perspective, and style.
The text conditioning guides what appears in the masked regions,
just like in our earlier text-to-image generation. But now, the model
has additional context from the surrounding image content, helping it
make more informed decisions about color palettes, lighting
direction, and spatial relationships. The result is new content that
doesn’t just match your text description but also feels like it naturally
belongs in the original scene. Let’s see this inpainting in action
through code that brings together all the concepts we’ve discussed.
The process shown in Listing 12.23 demonstrates how we can
selectively modify parts of an existing image while preserving
everything else.
We start by creating our inpainting model StableDiffusion3Inpaint
using the same backbone and preprocessor components we
assembled earlier. This gives us access to all that learned
knowledge about text-to-image generation, but now with the special
ability to work with existing images and masks. The image
preparation involves loading our base photograph and resizing it to
the standard 512×512 dimensions our model expects.
The mask represents the heart of our inpainting operation. Think of it
as a stencil that tells our model exactly where to focus its creative
efforts. We load the mask as a grayscale image where white pixels
indicate “paint here” and black pixels mean “leave this alone.”

--- Strana 1096 ---
Converting to Boolean format gives us the precise on/off switches
our model needs to know which areas are fair game for modification.
Finally, our prompt guides what should appear in the masked
regions, just like our earlier text-to-image generation. Here we’re
asking for “a photorealistic little tree with green leaves and a few
berries” to appear wherever the mask indicates.
The generate function receives all three pieces of information: the
original image providing context and unchangeable areas, the mask
defining the modification zone, and the prompt describing what
should appear there. Our model then works its magic, creating new
content that seamlessly blends with the existing image.
inpaint = keras_hub.models.
               StableDiffusion3Inpaint(
                  backbone, 
                  preprocessor
          )
image = Image.open("landscape.jpg").convert("RGB")
image = image.resize((512, 512))
image_array = rescale(np.array(image))
# Note that the mask values are of Boolean dtype.
mask = Image.open("landscape-mask.jpg").convert("L")
mask = mask.resize((512, 512))
mask_array = np.array(mask).astype("bool")
prompt = """photorealistic little tree with green 
            leaves and a few berries, 4k"""

--- Strana 1097 ---
generated_image = inpaint.generate(
    {
        "images": image_array,
        "masks": mask_array,
        "prompts": prompt,
    }
)
display_generated_images(
    [
        np.array(image),
        np.array(mask.convert("RGB")),
        generated_image,
    ]
)  
Listing 12.23     Complete Inpainting Workflow with Image, Mask, and Prompt Inputs
The resulting image shown in Figure 12.8 highlights the impressive
precision of our inpainting system. In the left image, we see the
original river landscape that we generated earlier. The middle image
shows our mask, the white shape that instructed our model where to
add new content.
The final image demonstrates how effectively our model understood
the task. Where the mask indicated, a tall conifer tree has been
added, maintaining the natural perspective and lighting of the scene.
Notice how the tree appears seamlessly integrated into the
landscape; it casts appropriate shadows, aligns with the depth of the
terrain, and blends perfectly with the existing moss-covered rocks
and flowing water. What’s particularly impressive is how the model
preserved every detail outside the masked area while creating

--- Strana 1098 ---
content that feels like it belonged there all along. The boundaries
between original and generated content are nearly invisible, and the
new tree adds to the scene’s natural composition rather than
disrupting it.
Figure 12.8     Results of Inpainting with Stable Diffusion
This demonstrates the power of combining learned visual
understanding with precise spatial control—our model drew upon its
training to understand how trees should appear in natural settings,
and then applied that knowledge specifically to our defined area.
[»]  Inpainting on Hugging Face
As before, if you’re facing computational power restrictions, you
may use the Hugging Face Spaces page to experiment with
inpainting for free: http://s-prs.co/v613205.
[+]  Exploring Keras Hub
Keras Hub offers a complete suite of Stable Diffusion capabilities
beyond what we’ve explored here. You can experiment with
image-to-image generation, where existing photos serve as

--- Strana 1099 ---
starting points for artistic transformations. There’s also outpainting,
which extends images beyond their original boundaries—consider
taking a portrait and seamlessly expanding it to show more of the
surrounding environment. For those interested in fine-tuning,
Keras Hub provides tools to adapt these models to specific styles
or domains using your own datasets. Each of these techniques
builds on the same foundational concepts we’ve covered but
opens up entirely new creative possibilities for visual generation
and manipulation. Take a look at the full pretrained models list on
Keras Hub here: https://keras.io/keras_hub/presets/.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1100 ---
12.5    Summary
In this chapter, we’ve gone from mathematical theory to practical
implementation, exploring how abstract concepts can become
systems that create visual art from text descriptions. We started by
understanding the mathematics behind diffusion models—how they
learn to reverse the process of adding noise to images, teaching
computers to gradually transform chaos into meaningful images. We
built our own diffusion model from scratch, watching it progress from
generating random pixels to creating recognizable flower images
through millions of small denoising decisions. We then explored how
text conditioning transforms these image-generation systems into
tools that respond to written descriptions, using pretrained models
through Keras Hub to generate landscapes from prompts. Finally, we
discovered inpainting, where spatial control meets image generation,
allowing us to modify existing images with precision.
In the next chapter, we’ll provide you with practical guidance and
insights for moving forward with these powerful technologies in your
own projects and research.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1101 ---
13    Recap of Key Concepts
This chapter serves as both a celebration of your learning
journey and a compass for the road ahead. We’ll explore
where deep learning is heading, discover practical strategies
for staying current with rapid developments in Keras and AI
research, and develop skills for following cutting-edge
research. Most importantly, you’ll gain the mindset and tools
needed to transform from a student of machine learning into
a practitioner who can adapt and grow alongside this quickly
evolving field.
This recap marks the end of an extensive learning effort, where
you’ve transitioned from a foundational understanding of machine
learning and Keras to possessing the practical expertise required to
construct a wide array of AI systems. This includes everything from
straightforward classifiers to highly advanced generative AI (GenAI)
models capable of creating detailed images from text descriptions.
This profound transformation signifies more than simply acquiring
technical skills. It represents the development of a unique problem-
solving mindset. This mindset seamlessly integrates the rigorous
logic of mathematics with practical, real-world intuition. You now
grasp the intricacies of gradient descent and its role in optimizing

--- Strana 1102 ---
complex functions, comprehend how neural networks discern
intricate patterns within data, and understand the revolutionary
impact of modern architectures such as transformers on the field of
AI.
The landscape of deep learning is in a state of continuous and rapid
evolution. New architectural paradigms are constantly emerging,
novel research techniques are proposed on a weekly basis through
countless papers, and the perceived boundaries of what’s
achievable with AI are constantly expanding. This concluding chapter
not only celebrates the significant knowledge you’ve acquired but
also provides a strategic road map for your continued growth and
engagement within this exceptionally dynamic field. Our aim is to
illuminate the future trajectory of deep learning, equip you with
strategies to remain current with rapid advancements, and, most
critically, help you sustain the powerful learning momentum you’ve
cultivated throughout this book. The overarching goal is to ensure
that the knowledge gained here serves as a robust foundation for
lifelong learning (an area of research in its own right), rather than
merely a final destination in your educational pursuits.
13.1    Future Trends in Deep Learning
The core mathematical foundations explored within this book remain
the bedrock for the most state-of-the-art advancements in AI.
Gradient descent, initially introduced as a fundamental optimization

--- Strana 1103 ---
technique, has undergone significant evolution, giving rise to highly
sophisticated variants that now power the world’s largest language
models and most advanced GenAI systems. Modern optimizers,
such as AdamW, and advanced techniques such as gradient
clipping, are direct descendants of these fundamental principles that
you mastered in the earlier stages of your learning journey. These
evolutions allow for more stable and efficient training of increasingly
complex neural networks. If you’re interested in this core machine
learning research area, one important aspect to explore further is the
concept of momentum, which forms the basis of most advanced
algorithms.
From a more high-level perspective, Neural Architecture Search
(NAS) stands out as one of the most exciting and transformative
developments in this domain. Historically, designing effective neural
network architectures (e.g., the number of layers and the
interconnections between them) required extensive human expertise
and iterative experimentation. With NAS, we can now leverage
machine learning itself to automatically discover optimal network
designs. These sophisticated systems apply the very same
optimization principles you’ve learned, but at a higher, meta-level,
where the optimization target shifts from merely adjusting network
weights to optimizing the entire structure and connectivity of the
networks. This automates a previously labor-intensive and often
intuitive design process. The inherent flexibility of the Keras
Functional API has become even more indispensable as network
architectures continue to grow in complexity. Contemporary AI

--- Strana 1104 ---
systems frequently combine multiple distinct types of networks, are
designed to process diverse data modalities simultaneously (e.g.,
text and images), and often employ dynamic routing mechanisms
between different components. The composable and modular nature
of Keras makes it an exceptionally ideal platform for the rapid
prototyping and iterative development of these increasingly
sophisticated and multifaceted designs.
On the more practical side, transfer learning has advanced
significantly beyond its earlier, simpler forms, which often involved
merely taking a pretrained convolutional neural network (CNN) and
attaching new output layers. Modern foundation models represent a
paradigm shift. These models are trained on colossal and
extraordinarily diverse datasets, after which they are meticulously
fine-tuned for a vast array of specific tasks. This fundamentally alters
our approach to many machine learning problems. Instead of
embarking on the resource-intensive process of training models from
scratch for each new task, we’re increasingly building upon the rich,
learned representations and generalized knowledge embedded
within these massive, pretrained systems. This dramatically reduces
training time and data requirements for new applications.
This democratization of advanced AI capabilities is accelerating at an
unprecedented pace. Techniques that just a few years ago
demanded substantial computational resources and specialized
expertise are now readily accessible through user-friendly, high-level
APIs and scalable cloud services. This overarching trend amplifies
the value of the foundational understanding you’ve developed

--- Strana 1105 ---
throughout this book, as it empowers you not only to effectively use
these powerful tools but also to critically comprehend their inherent
strengths and limitations.
[+]  Bridging Research and Implementation
One extremely useful resource for keeping up with the latest and
greatest research in this area is the Hugging Face Trending
Papers page (https://huggingface.co/papers/trending). This site
has revolutionized research tracking by combining publications
with working implementations, creating a direct bridge between
theory and practice. Instead of spending weeks deciphering
papers, you can immediately experiment with new techniques and
evaluate their relevance to your work. The platform’s benchmarks
provide clear comparisons between methods, helping you identify
genuine advances versus incremental improvements. Take a look
at the site if you haven’t already.
In the following sections, we’ll see how these broad architecture
changes are leading to improvements in different areas of deep
learning both in terms of the core models and those related to
reinforcement learning.
13.1.1    Advanced Architecture Trajectories
Transformers have fundamentally redefined our understanding of the
capabilities of neural networks. While we initially explored their

--- Strana 1106 ---
application primarily within the realm of natural language processing
(NLP), their profound influence has extended far beyond text. Vision
Transformers (ViT), for instance, process images by treating them as
sequences of distinct patches, applying the very same attention
mechanisms that were so instrumental to the success of
transformers in language tasks. This successful cross-pollination of
architectural concepts between seemingly different domains
represents an extremely important trend in modern AI development,
indicating a convergence of ideas across different modalities.
As you might be well aware if you keep track of AI news, the scaling
of transformer models continues to unveil surprising and emergent
capabilities. As these models grow progressively larger and are
trained on increasingly diverse and expansive datasets, they begin
to exhibit behaviors that weren’t explicitly programmed or
anticipated. Large language models (LLMs) can now adeptly perform
tasks for which they were never specifically trained, demonstrating a
remarkable form of few-shot learning that bears a striking
resemblance to human cognitive flexibility and generalization
abilities. This emergent intelligence is a hallmark of truly large-scale
models. This is becoming increasingly evident as multimodal
transformers push the boundaries of this architectural evolution.
These sophisticated systems are designed to simultaneously
process and learn from various data types, including text, images,
audio, and more. Think of these as combining transformers with
vision transformers. By integrating these diverse streams, they learn
rich, unified representations that capture intricate relationships and

--- Strana 1107 ---
dependencies across different modalities. The same attention
mechanisms that enabled models to understand the nuances of
language now empower them to reason effectively about the
complex connections between visual information and textual
descriptions.
On the implementation side, significant efficiency improvements in
transformer architectures are actively addressing one of the primary
limitations of these computationally intensive models. Sparse
attention mechanisms, for example, dramatically reduce the
computational complexity associated with attention from quadratic to
near-linear with respect to sequence length. This critical
advancement makes it feasible to process much longer sequences
of data while largely maintaining the expressiveness and powerful
representational capabilities of full attention mechanisms, thus
enabling new applications previously constrained by computational
cost.
CNNs, far from being replaced, continue to evolve in tandem with
transformers. Modern CNN architectures are now incorporating
valuable lessons and inductive biases learned from transformer
designs, while conversely, transformers are adopting useful
elements from convolutional approaches. This reciprocal cross-
fertilization of ideas is leading to the development of powerful hybrid
architectures that ingeniously combine the complementary strengths
of both paradigms, yielding superior performance across a range of
tasks. Some of these CNN-based models are powering the
development of 3D understanding capabilities. These extend the

--- Strana 1108 ---
scope of computer vision beyond static 2D images. Modern
architectures are now proficient at processing dynamic video
sequences, understanding complex temporal relationships within
them, and even generating 3D content. These advanced capabilities
are built upon the same fundamental convolutional and attention
mechanisms you’ve learned, but are applied to higher-dimensional,
spatio-temporal data, pushing the boundaries of visual AI.
13.1.2    Reinforcement Learning Frontiers
In recent times, reinforcement learning has undergone a significant
maturation, transitioning from a predominantly academic pursuit to a
robust and practical tool for solving complex real-world problems.
The powerful integration of deep neural networks with reinforcement
learning algorithms has unlocked a vast array of applications in
diverse fields such as robotics, advanced game playing, optimized
resource allocation, and highly sophisticated autonomous systems.
These contemporary advances build directly upon the foundational
reinforcement learning concepts we explored, extending them to
effectively handle the immense complexities inherent in sequential
decision-making environments. For instance, multi-agent
reinforcement learning represents a particularly exciting and rapidly
developing area. Instead of training individual agents in isolation,
these systems learn to coordinate, cooperate, or even compete with
multiple intelligent entities within a shared environment. This
collaborative or competitive learning approach directly mirrors many
real-world scenarios where optimal decisions must account for the

--- Strana 1109 ---
dynamic actions and reactions of other independent agents, leading
to more realistic and robust solutions.
A slightly less mainstream but very useful alternative direction is
offline reinforcement learning, which directly addresses one of the
major practical limitations of traditional reinforcement learning
approaches: extensive and costly interaction with the environment.
Unlike online methods, offline reinforcement learning techniques can
learn highly effective policies directly from static datasets of
previously collected experience, without any further interaction with
the environment. This crucial advancement makes reinforcement
learning broadly applicable to domains where active exploration is
prohibitively expensive, potentially dangerous, or simply impractical,
opening up new avenues for reinforcement learning deployment.
Hierarchical reinforcement learning takes an alternative approach
and tackles the formidable challenge of learning highly complex and
extended behaviors by intelligently decomposing them into a
structured set of simpler, more manageable subtasks. These
advanced approaches operate at multiple time scales, enabling
agents to concurrently develop low-level, precise motor skills, as well
as high-level, abstract strategic reasoning, facilitating the learning of
intricate and long-horizon tasks. Reinforcement learning is one area
in which there is a lot to be done. Reward designing remains a most
important aspect of any system relying on reinforcement learning.
Automating rewards is the holy grail for these systems but remains a
very challenging and active area of research. Concepts such as
intrinsic curiosity aim to come up with solutions to the problem of

--- Strana 1110 ---
relying on reward from the environment. These are extremely
interesting areas of research you are urged to explore if you’re
interested in the concept of reinforcement learning.
13.1.3    Generative AI Revolution
While reinforcement learning shows high potential, the public
attention seems to be more focused on the domain of GenAI. With
the emergence of systems capable of creating remarkably realistic
images, generating coherent and contextually relevant text, and
even writing functional code, GenAI seems to be the most hyped
area in machine learning these days. These extraordinary
capabilities are built upon the fundamental autoencoder and
Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) architectures that we
explored earlier, but are significantly extended and enhanced
through more sophisticated architectures and advanced training
techniques. Text-to-image and more recently text-to-video
generation represents one of the most visible and impactful
applications of modern GenAI. These innovative systems seamlessly
combine the advanced language understanding capabilities of
transformers with the powerful image-generation abilities of diffusion
models. The synergistic result is the creation of systems that can
translate simple, descriptive text prompts into detailed, creatively
rich, and contextually appropriate images or videos, blurring the lines
between language and visual art.

--- Strana 1111 ---
The ambitious extension of generative capabilities to diverse
modalities such as video, 3D models, and even functional code
showcases the remarkable generality and adaptability of these
underlying generative approaches. The same fundamental principles
and core architectures that enable image or text generation can be
applied across these distinct domains, with appropriate modifications
and adaptations to account for the specific characteristics and
complexities of each data type.
Controllable generation has become an increasingly critical aspect
as GenAI systems transition from experimental curiosities to
practical applications. Rather than producing random or unguided
outputs, modern generative systems now offer fine-grained control
over various attributes such as style, specific content elements, and
other semantic properties. It also allows us to modify parts of the
whole instead of creating complete artifacts from scratch each time.
We saw a sample of this in the inpainting example in the last
chapter. This enhanced controllability transforms GenAI into a
powerful and practical tool for professional creative workflows,
moving beyond mere experimental exploration.
One particularly exciting area gaining momentum on this platform
involves a fundamental shift in how LLMs generate text. While
traditional LLMs produce text one word at a time in sequence—much
like writing a sentence from left to right without the ability to go back
and edit—researchers are now exploring diffusion-based text
generation. These experimental systems apply the same principles
that made diffusion models so successful for image generation to the

--- Strana 1112 ---
challenge of creating coherent text. The potential advantages are
compelling. Diffusion approaches can generate text significantly
faster than traditional autoregressive methods, and they solve a
persistent problem with current LLMs: Once an incorrect word is
generated early in a sequence, the model can’t revisit and correct
that mistake. Diffusion-based text generation allows for a more
flexible, iterative refinement process where the entire output can be
improved simultaneously rather than being locked into early
decisions. Early results suggest this approach could reshape how we
think about language generation entirely. These systems can refine
and improve text globally, potentially leading to more coherent and
higher-quality outputs. This represents exactly the kind of
fundamental architectural shift worth monitoring closely as it moves
from experimental research to practical implementation.
Keeping up with this fast-paced domain is quite difficult though, so
we’ll share some tips on how to follow the most important concepts
without getting burned out.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1113 ---
13.2    Tips for Staying Updated with
Advancements
Maintaining proficiency and staying current in the rapidly evolving
field of deep learning requires continuous effort and a strategic
approach. We’ll provide some tips for this in the following sections.
13.2.1    Technical Skills Maintenance
Keras itself is a framework undergoing rapid evolution, with each
new version introducing capabilities that would have been
considered unstable or leading-edge just months prior. Staying
abreast of these developments requires a systematic approach to
ongoing learning and hands-on experimentation. Crucially, the
framework’s strong commitment to backwards compatibility ensures
that your existing knowledge and learned practices remain valuable,
while new features seamlessly extend and enhance your
capabilities. For instance, the multi-backend architecture of Keras 3
signifies a fundamental paradigm shift in how deep learning
frameworks are organized and used. Your Keras models can now
execute seamlessly on various backends, including TensorFlow,
JAX, or PyTorch, often with minimal or no code modifications. When
JAX was introduced, support for this backend was added quite
quickly to Keras. It’s expected that any future backend that gains
popularity will be supported by Keras as well. This remarkable

--- Strana 1114 ---
flexibility safeguards your investment in learning Keras while
simultaneously granting you access to the latest optimizations,
performance benefits, and unique features across different
computational ecosystems, providing unparalleled adaptability.
New layer types are regularly introduced in Keras releases,
frequently implementing the very latest published research findings.
These additions mean you can readily experiment with cutting-edge
techniques and novel architectures without the difficult task of
implementing them from scratch. However, a deep understanding of
the underlying theoretical principles and mathematical foundations
becomes even more critical for effectively using and configuring
these advanced tools and layers.
[+]  Keeping Up with Keras
One of the greatest machine learning resources is the Keras
official documentation. For instance, you can keep track of all the
latest research in layer types simply by following the changes on
the Keras layers API page at https://keras.io/api/layers/. I keep
going back to this page regularly and reading through the different
links in the sidebar to keep track of the advancements in core
deep learning architectures.
Reproducibility has become an increasingly paramount concern as
deep learning experiments grow in complexity and computational
expense. Modern machine learning workflows strongly emphasize
rigorous version control, not just for code but also for datasets,

--- Strana 1115 ---
trained model weights, and specific experimental configurations.
Dedicated tools such as MLflow, Weights & Biases, and
TensorBoard have evolved significantly to support increasingly
sophisticated experiment tracking, comprehensive logging, and
systematic comparison across multiple runs.
Lastly, containerization of machine learning workflows has
dramatically simplified the process of sharing and reproducing
experiments across diverse computing environments. A practical
understanding of these Machine Learning Operations (MLOps)
technologies such as Docker and similar containerization platforms
has become an essential skill for serious practitioners in the field.
These tools guarantee that your deep learning experiments can run
consistently and predictably, whether on your personal laptop, a
cloud instance, or a production deployment server.
13.2.2    Following Tutorials and Keras Codebase
Adding to the earlier suggestion about the official Keras
documentation, it’s important to note that this documentation has
evolved far beyond a simple collection of API references. The
examples repository on GitHub (https://github.com/keras-
team/keras/tree/master/examples) contains meticulously
implemented versions of recent research papers, often accompanied
by detailed explanations of the underlying concepts and practical
implementation nuances. These examples serve as excellent
starting points for your own experimental endeavors and provide

--- Strana 1116 ---
crucial insights into best practices for implementing advanced deep
learning techniques.
While it might seem mundane, release notes for Keras updates often
contain valuable insights into the design philosophy and rationale
behind new features. See an example at https://github.com/keras-
team/keras/releases. Understanding why certain design decisions
were made helps you use new capabilities more effectively and even
anticipate future developments in the framework. The Keras
development team typically provides thoughtful and clear
explanations of their architectural choices and the specific problems
they aim to solve with new releases. While you’re on the GitHub
repository, exploring the Keras source code provides a level of deep
understanding that no amount of documentation alone can convey.
The actual implementation details of layers, optimizers, and training
loops reveal the practical considerations, engineering trade-offs, and
subtle nuances that fundamentally shape how these complex
systems function. This intimate knowledge proves invaluable when
you need to extend, customize, or modify existing Keras functionality
for your highly specific use cases.
An easier route to gain a foothold in the community would be to
contribute to Keras documentation and examples. This is an
excellent way to solidify your own understanding while
simultaneously supporting the broader community. Even small
contributions, such as fixing typos, clarifying ambiguous
explanations, or proposing minor improvements, directly help other

--- Strana 1117 ---
learners and provide you with invaluable insight into the collaborative
development process of a major open source project.
The broader tutorial ecosystem of Keras provides a wide array of
perspectives on how to apply Keras to various problems. However,
the quality, currency, and accuracy of these external resources can
vary significantly. Developing strong skills for evaluating the
credibility and usefulness of tutorials becomes crucial for efficient
and effective learning. Prioritize tutorials that not only explain what to
do but also provide clear explanations of why certain approaches are
preferred or work better than others. Creating your own tutorials
forces you to rigorously organize and articulate your understanding
of complex topics. The act of teaching others, even through written
explanations, invariably reveals gaps in your own knowledge and
helps to consolidate what you’ve learned. The process of striving for
clear and concise explanations often leads to deeper insights and a
more profound understanding of the material you’re attempting to
explain. This was part of the motivation for writing this book in the
first place even though it took a lot more time than contributing to the
academic research community, which is my usual target audience.
13.2.3    Research Consumption Strategy
Speaking of research, the sheer volume of machine learning
research being published can feel overwhelming and daunting.
However, developing an effective research reading strategy makes it
a manageable and productive endeavor. Not every paper warrants

--- Strana 1118 ---
equal attention, and learning to quickly identify the most relevant,
impactful, and trustworthy work saves an enormous amount of time
and effort. Foundational papers retain their immense value even
years after their initial publication. A deep understanding of seminal
works, such as the original transformer paper, ResNet, or the
Variational Autoencoder (VAE) paper, provides essential historical
context and a robust framework for comprehending subsequent
developments. These foundational papers often contain profound
insights and fundamental ideas that might get overlooked or diluted
in later works focusing on incremental improvements. The text of this
book was designed in a way that after completing this book, you
should be able to easily parse the full text of the original research
papers.
An easier read is the survey papers and review articles that offer
excellent high-level overviews of entire research areas. These types
of papers meticulously synthesize large bodies of existing work,
identify key trends, highlight significant breakthroughs, and often
point out promising directions for future research. They serve as
highly efficient ways to gain a broad understanding of a complex
area without the necessity of reading dozens of individual research
papers.
Learning to critically evaluate research claims is becoming
increasingly important as the field grows more competitive and
results can sometimes be overstated. A solid understanding of
experimental methodology, statistical significance, and the crucial
distinction between correlation and causation helps you effectively

--- Strana 1119 ---
discern genuine, robust advances from incremental improvements
that might be presented as major breakthroughs.
[+]  Red Flags in Low Quality Research
As an example, consider the reporting of appropriate model
evaluation metrics. We discussed some important metrics in
Chapter 5. If a research paper doesn’t report the appropriate
metrics as part of their results, it’s probably not worth reading. For
instance, if a research paper has an unbalanced dataset and they
are only reporting their accuracy and not their precision, recall, or
F1 score, that should be a big red flag and is much more common
than you would think. Review Chapter 5, Section 5.4.4, for a
detailed discussion about this point.
The practice of implementing research directly from papers deepens
understanding far beyond the act of merely reading. Even partial or
simplified implementations often reveal subtle assumptions, implicit
details, and practical challenges that aren’t always explicitly clear
from the written text. This hands-on, practical approach also helps
you to realistically evaluate the practical applicability and true utility
of proposed techniques. The tip about the Hugging Faces Trending
Papers site shared earlier in the chapter might be useful here. You
may also find great support from the community of developers if you
know where to look.

--- Strana 1120 ---
13.2.4    Community Engagement
The machine learning community extends far beyond academic
researchers, encompassing a diverse array of practitioners,
engineers, and enthusiastic hobbyists from varied backgrounds.
Actively engaging with this broader community provides diverse
perspectives on shared technical challenges and often reveals
practical considerations and deployment nuances that academic
papers might overlook. Professional conferences offer highly
concentrated learning opportunities, although they can be expensive
and time-consuming. Fortunately, many major conferences now
provide virtual attendance options, and recorded talks offer
invaluable access to forefront research presentations and
discussions. While the vital networking aspects of in-person
conferences are harder to replicate virtually, active participation in
online communities can partially fill this gap. Contributing to open
source projects provides invaluable practical experience with
professional software development workflows while simultaneously
supporting the very tools and frameworks you frequently use. Even
small contributions, such as bug fixes, documentation improvements,
or minor feature enhancements, help you understand how large
software projects are organized, maintained, and collaboratively
developed. This experience proves invaluable whether you’re
working on research prototypes or robust production systems.
Knowledge sharing through platforms such as blogging, giving
presentations, or teaching others is mutually beneficial. It
significantly helps the broader community by disseminating valuable

--- Strana 1121 ---
information and also reinforces your own learning. Explaining
complex concepts to others forces you to understand them more
deeply and often reveals new insights about familiar material. The
feedback you receive from your audience also helps identify areas
where your understanding could be further strengthened.
An important balance to strike is between perspectives from industry
and academic research. This provides a holistic understanding of
both theoretical advancements and practical constraints. Industry
presentations and publications often focus on real-world deployment
challenges, scalability issues, and operational complexities that
academic papers might not address. Conversely, academic research
explores groundbreaking possibilities that might not yet be practically
viable but could become profoundly important in the future. A strong
foundation such as that achieved by fully understanding the
concepts in this book will help you avoid buzz words and dead ends
coming from the industry as well as weed out poor quality research.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1122 ---
13.3    Following the Latest Research
Navigating the state-of-the-art of AI research requires a structured
approach to filter the constant influx of new information. The
established academic conference system provides a crucial
framework for structuring the otherwise chaotic flow of research
publications. Understanding the submission and presentation
systems of major conferences helps you anticipate when significant
announcements and breakthroughs are likely to appear.
Conferences such as Neural Information Processing Systems
(NeurIPS), International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML),
and International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR)
have become the primary global venues for unveiling substantial
advances in machine learning.
[+]  Pro Tip for Getting Ideas
One pro tip I can share from my own experience is to submit your
research ideas to these top conferences even if you don’t think
they deserve an acceptance. I once submitted a paper to a Tier-1
conference and while it was rejected, I got a six-page review from
the field thought leaders. This detailed review gave me food for
thought and research ideas I explored for the next two years! The
moral of the story is that even a rejection from these top venues is
a blessing in disguise.

--- Strana 1123 ---
Specialized workshops and smaller conferences often serve as vital
platforms for showcasing emerging research directions before they
gain widespread mainstream attention. These more focused venues
can provide early insights into nascent trends, allow for more in-
depth discussions on specific topics, and often feature a more
informal atmosphere conducive to frank discussions about limitations
and even unsuccessful approaches.
Preprint servers such as arXiv have fundamentally transformed how
research is disseminated. Papers now appear months before formal
peer review and publication, enabling much faster communication of
new ideas and findings. However, this speed comes with the trade-
off of reduced quality control and peer validation, making highly
developed critical evaluation skills even more paramount. More
specialized preprint servers such as BioRXiv are also a great source
for learning about the state-of-the-art in specific areas. Such cross-
disciplinary influences are increasingly shaping the direction of
machine learning research. Techniques and insights from fields such
as physics, biology, neuroscience, and mathematics continue to
inspire novel approaches to complex AI problems. Staying aware of
significant developments in these related scientific and engineering
fields can provide invaluable foresight into future directions for
machine learning research. Let’s walk through some pointers about
specific areas, which can serve as a starting point in research
exploration.

--- Strana 1124 ---
13.3.1    Technical Deep Dives
Federated learning addresses the growing imperative of privacy and
data locality in modern machine learning applications. These cutting-
edge techniques enable the training of models on distributed
datasets without the need to centralize or aggregate sensitive
information. The significant mathematical challenges associated with
optimization across heterogeneous data distributions make this an
exceptionally active area of both theoretical and practical research.
The intersections between quantum computing and machine
learning remain largely theoretical at present, but they hold the
potential for profound implications if quantum hardware continues its
rapid improvement. Grasping the basic principles of quantum
mechanics and quantum computation helps you critically evaluate
claims about quantum advantage and identify potential applications
within your own work, preparing you for future paradigms.
An orthogonal area is neuromorphic computing that draws direct
inspiration from the highly efficient structure and function of
biological neural networks to create more energy-efficient hardware
specifically tailored for AI applications. These biologically inspired
approaches could dramatically reduce the energy consumption of
large-scale AI systems, making powerful models accessible in
resource-constrained environments such as edge devices.
Edge AI focuses on bringing AI capabilities closer to the data
sources, directly on devices at the edge of the network. This
proximity significantly reduces latency and bandwidth requirements

--- Strana 1125 ---
while simultaneously improving data privacy. The inherent
constraints of edge devices (limited power, memory, and compute)
drive intense research into model compression techniques, highly
efficient architectures, and novel training methods that maintain
accuracy while drastically reducing computational demands.
Finally, something much closer to my own interest is interpretability
in AI. Modern AI systems exhibit remarkable capabilities—they can
reason about complex problems, write poetry, solve mathematical
equations, and engage in nuanced conversations—yet we have
surprisingly little insight into the internal mechanisms that produce
these behaviors. It’s as if we’ve built incredibly sophisticated minds
but can only observe their thoughts from the outside, watching their
responses without understanding the cognitive processes that
generate them. Researchers are now developing techniques to peer
inside these digital black boxes, using methods such as attention
visualization, neuron activation analysis, and causal interventions to
map how information flows through the network’s layers. Perhaps
most intriguingly, these investigations are revealing emergent
properties that nobody anticipated during training—capabilities that
seem to spontaneously arise from the complex interactions between
millions of parameters, much like consciousness might emerge from
the intricate dance of biological neurons. Understanding these
phenomena is becoming essential for building more reliable,
controllable, and innovative AI systems. By learning how current
models develop their remarkable abilities, we can design
architectures that amplify these strengths while addressing their

--- Strana 1126 ---
limitations, potentially leading to entirely new forms of machine
intelligence that we haven’t yet imagined that can be of practical use
in many more areas.
13.3.2    Practical Research Integration
Moving from research prototypes to production systems involves
navigating numerous complex practical challenges that research
papers rarely explicitly address. Considerations such as system
scalability, robustness requirements, stringent latency targets, and
integration constraints often necessitate significant modifications and
adaptations to published research techniques, requiring substantial
engineering effort.
A/B testing frameworks for machine learning systems are essential
for rigorously evaluating whether research improvements genuinely
translate into meaningful business outcomes or tangible user
benefits in real-world scenarios. These methodologies demand
careful experimental design to account for the inherent complexities
of real-world deployments, where multiple interacting factors can
simultaneously influence observed outcomes.
[Ex]  A/B Testing in the Wild
Sometimes when you’re using a chatbot, it will show you two
outputs and ask you which one you prefer as the response. This is
a type of A/B testing being performed on you and the model to

--- Strana 1127 ---
figure out which one works best. You can apply the same principle
in practical scenarios to improve your models’ output.
Ethical considerations are becoming increasingly paramount as AI
systems permeate more aspects of human life. A deep
understanding of issues such as algorithmic bias, fairness,
interpretability, and safety necessitates both technical knowledge
and a keen awareness of their broader social implications. These
critical considerations often influence which research directions are
deemed most valuable to pursue and how techniques should be
ethically implemented.
Similarly, risk management in AI deployment requires not only
understanding what potential failures or undesirable behaviors can
occur but also developing robust mechanisms for detecting and
mitigating problems when they arise. Building resilient monitoring
systems, reliable fallback mechanisms, and efficient update pipelines
often proves to be more challenging and critical than simply
developing the initial AI capability itself.
13.3.3    Parting Words
The extensive knowledge you’ve gained throughout this book
provides a solid foundation for your continued growth and impact in
the rapidly evolving field of AI. You now possess a comprehensive
understanding of the fundamental mathematical principles that
underpin modern AI systems, the practical techniques for

--- Strana 1128 ---
implementing these systems using powerful frameworks such as
Keras. This powerful combination of theoretical understanding and
hands-on practical skills positions you exceptionally well for
whatever directions the field may take in the coming years. Your
learning doesn’t end with the final pages of this book though.
Instead, it should transition into a new, more advanced phase. You
now have the specialized vocabulary and the essential conceptual
framework required to confidently engage with current research,
interpret and understand new developments, and actively contribute
to the field’s ongoing evolution. While the breathtaking pace of
change in AI might occasionally seem daunting, your newly acquired
foundational knowledge provides a critical sense of stability amidst
the constant flux of novel techniques and emerging applications.
As you continue your learning and personal growth, always
remember that the most profound and valuable insights often
emerge from applying these powerful techniques to problems that
genuinely ignite your curiosity and passion. The general principles
and methodologies you’ve learned are remarkably adaptable and
can be tailored to countless specific domains and innovative
applications. Your curiosity and persistent dedication to working
through challenging problems will continue to drive your growth and
discovery long after you’ve completed reading this book.
The very future of AI will be shaped by individuals like you—those
who possess a deep understanding of both the immense possibilities
and the inherent limitations of these powerful techniques. Use your
knowledge wisely and responsibly, continue learning with

--- Strana 1129 ---
enthusiastic vigor, and always remember that the most effective and
impactful AI systems are built through the collaborative efforts of
dedicated teams working together toward shared, ambitious goals.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1130 ---
The Author
Dr. Mohammad Nauman is a seasoned machine learning expert
with more than 20 years of teaching experience and a track record of
educating more than 40,000 students globally through his online
courses on platforms like Udemy and YouTube. He holds a PhD in
computer science and was a post-doctoral fellow at the Max Planck
Institute for Software Systems in Germany. His groundbreaking post-
doc research focused on applying machine learning to advance
security and privacy solutions. Dr. Nauman’s teaching philosophy—
rooted in bridging theory and practice—empowers learners to master
tools while building robust foundational skills, whether in academic
settings or through his widely accessible digital programs.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1131 ---
Index
↓Symbole  ↓A  ↓B  ↓C  ↓D  ↓E  ↓F  ↓G  ↓H  ↓I  ↓J  ↓K  ↓L  ↓M  ↓N  
↓O  ↓P  ↓Q  ↓R  ↓S  ↓T  ↓U  ↓V  ↓W  ↓X  ↓Z  
Symbole ⇑
1D convolution [→ Section 9.1]
4D tensor [→ Section 7.2]
A ⇑
Accuracy [→ Section 4.5]
Accuracy paradox [→ Section 5.4]
Actions [→ Section 2.3]
Action-value function [→ Section 10.3]
Activation function [→ Section 4.1] [→ Section 7.1]
Actor-critic [→ Section 10.4]
Adagrad [→ Section 4.1]
Adam [→ Section 4.1]

--- Strana 1132 ---
Adam optimizer [→ Section 7.5]
Adversarial [→ Section 11.1]
Adversarial contest [→ Section 11.3]
Adversarial relationship [→ Section 11.3]
Agent [→ Section 2.3] [→ Section 10.1]
Agent architecture [→ Section 10.2]
AI [→ Section 2.1]
Aligned [→ Section 10.1]
AlphaDropout [→ Section 6.4]
AlphaGo [→ Section 10.1]
AMD GPU [→ Section 5.2]
Analogical relationship [→ Section 9.1]
Anomaly detection [→ Section 2.2] [→ Section 8.2] [→ Section
11.1]
Ape-X [→ Section 10.4]
Architectural pattern [→ Section 8.2]
Architecture design [→ Section 5.4]
Association rule learning [→ Section 2.2]
Asymmetric architecture [→ Section 11.1]

--- Strana 1133 ---
Attention [→ Section 9.1]
Attention head [→ Section 9.2]
Attention matrix [→ Section 9.1]
Attention mechanism [→ Section 7.2] [→ Section 9.1]
[→ Section 12.4]
Attention score [→ Section 9.1]
Audio processing [→ Section 12.4]
AutoDiff [→ Section 5.3]
Autoencoder [→ Section 2.2] [→ Section 11.1]
AutoGrad [→ Section 5.1] [→ Section 5.3]
Autonomous vehicle [→ Section 2.2]
Autoregressive generation [→ Section 9.3]
Averaging effect [→ Section 11.2]
Axis parameter [→ Section 5.3]
B ⇑
Backbone [→ Section 9.4] [→ Section 12.4]
Backpropagation [→ Section 4.2] [→ Section 9.2]
Backward pass [→ Section 3.1] [→ Section 7.1] [→ Section
8.2]
Bagging [→ Section 6.2]

--- Strana 1134 ---
Batch gradient descent [→ Section 3.2]
Batching [→ Section 5.4]
Batch normalization [→ Section 8.3] [→ Section 10.4]
[→ Section 12.3]
Bellman equation [→ Section 10.3]
Bernoulli random variable [→ Section 11.2]
BERT [→ Section 9.4] [→ Section 12.4]
Beta annealing [→ Section 11.2]
Bias [→ Section 3.1]
Bias-variance dilemma [→ Section 11.1]
Bias-variance trade-off [→ Section 6.1] [→ Section 6.1]
Binary classification [→ Section 4.1]
Binary cross-entropy [→ Section 11.1]
Binary IoU [→ Section 8.3]
Boltzmann exploration [→ Section 10.2] [→ Section 10.3]
Boosting [→ Section 6.2]
Bottleneck [→ Section 11.1]
Branching pathway [→ Section 8.1]
Broadcasting [→ Section 5.3]

--- Strana 1135 ---
C ⇑
Caching [→ Section 5.4]
Callable [→ Section 8.2]
Callable layer [→ Section 7.2]
Callback [→ Section 5.1] [→ Section 5.1] [→ Section 5.4]
Capacity [→ Section 11.3]
Catastrophic forgetting [→ Section 8.4] [→ Section 10.5]
Catastrophic oscillation [→ Section 10.4]
Categorical cross-entropy [→ Section 7.5]
Causality [→ Section 9.2]
Causal language model [→ Section 9.4]
CausalLM [→ Section 9.4]
Causal self-attention [→ Section 9.2]
Center [→ Section 11.2]
Center cropping [→ Section 12.3]
Chain rule [→ Section 5.3] [→ Section 7.1]
Channel [→ Section 5.4] [→ Section 7.1]
Channel mixing [→ Section 7.1]
ChatGPT [→ Section 9.1]

--- Strana 1136 ---
CHW format [→ Section 7.1]
CIFAR-10 [→ Section 7.5] [→ Section 11.2]
Class-conditional generation [→ Section 11.3]
Class conditioning [→ Section 11.3]
Classification [→ Section 2.2] [→ Section 4.1]
binary [→ Section 2.2]
multi-class [→ Section 2.2] [→ Section 4.3]
multi-label [→ Section 2.2] [→ Section 4.4]
Classification confidence [→ Section 12.2]
Classification label [→ Section 4.1]
Classification metrics [→ Section 5.4]
Classification task [→ Section 4.1]
Classifier-free guidance [→ Section 12.2]
Class selector [→ Section 11.3]
Claude [→ Section 9.1]
Clipping [→ Section 11.1]
Clipping mechanism [→ Section 10.5]
Cluster [→ Section 2.2]

--- Strana 1137 ---
Clustering [→ Section 2.2]
hierarchical [→ Section 2.2]
Clustering problem [→ Section 2.2]
Co-adaptation [→ Section 6.2]
Co-adapted network [→ Section 6.2]
Co-dependencies [→ Section 6.2]
Colaboratory (colab) [→ Section 2.5] [→ Section 2.5]
Compact representation [→ Section 8.3]
Competition [→ Section 11.1]
Compile [→ Section 2.1]
Complementary information [→ Section 8.2]
Composition [→ Section 8.1]
Compressed latent space [→ Section 12.1]
Compressed representation [→ Section 11.1] [→ Section 12.1]
Compression ratio [→ Section 11.1]
Computation graph [→ Section 5.3]
Computer vision [→ Section 2.1] [→ Section 12.4]
Concatenation [→ Section 8.2]
Confusion matrix [→ Section 5.4]

--- Strana 1138 ---
Constitutional AI [→ Section 10.5]
Content-aware relationship [→ Section 12.1]
Context [→ Section 9.1] [→ Section 9.1]
Contextual relationship [→ Section 9.1]
Contour plot [→ Section 3.2]
Contractive autoencoder [→ Section 11.1]
Contractive penalty [→ Section 11.1]
Contrastive loss [→ Section 8.3]
Controlled progression [→ Section 12.3]
Control problem [→ Section 10.4]
Conv1D [→ Section 7.3]
Convergence [→ Section 3.2]
Convex function [→ Section 3.1]
ConvNet (CNN) [→ Section 7.2] [→ Section 7.2] [→ Section
7.2]
Convolutional neural network [→ Section 7.2]
Convolution layer [→ Section 6.2]
Convolution-normalization-activation [→ Section 8.3]
Convolution operator [→ Section 7.1]

--- Strana 1139 ---
Convolution output [→ Section 7.1]
Co-occurrence [→ Section 9.1]
Correlated experiences [→ Section 10.4]
Cosine schedule [→ Section 12.3]
Cost function [→ Section 3.1]
Covariate shift [→ Section 11.3]
Credit assignment problem [→ Section 2.3] [→ Section 10.1]
Cross-attention [→ Section 12.1]
Cross-entropy loss [→ Section 4.1]
Cross-similarity [→ Section 12.3]
Cross-training [→ Section 8.1]
CUDA [→ Section 5.1]
cuDNN [→ Section 5.1]
Curiosity mechanism [→ Section 10.1]
Curriculum learning [→ Section 11.2]
Curse of dimensionality [→ Section 10.3]
Cyclical annealing [→ Section 11.2]
D ⇑
Data generation [→ Section 11.1]

--- Strana 1140 ---
Data leakage [→ Section 6.1]
Data point [→ Section 3.1]
Data preparation [→ Section 5.4]
Dataset [→ Section 2.1] [→ Section 3.1] [→ Section 3.1]
EuroSAT [→ Section 8.4]
MNIST [→ Section 2.1]
Oxford-IIIT Pet dataset [→ Section 8.3]
DDPM [→ Section 12.1]
Decay rate [→ Section 10.4]
Decay schedule [→ Section 9.3]
Decision boundary [→ Section 4.1]
Decision-making [→ Section 10.2]
Decision trees [→ Section 6.2]
Decoder [→ Section 9.1] [→ Section 9.2] [→ Section 11.1]
Deconvolution [→ Section 7.3] [→ Section 7.3] [→ Section 8.3]
[→ Section 11.2]
Deep Convolutional GAN [→ Section 11.3]
Deep learning [→ Section 2.1] [→ Section 4.2]
Deeply dense connection [→ Section 8.1]

--- Strana 1141 ---
Deep Q-Network (DQN) [→ Section 10.1] [→ Section 10.3]
[→ Section 10.4]
Deep reinforcement learning [→ Section 10.1]
Delayed feedback [→ Section 10.1]
Denoising [→ Section 12.1]
Denoising autoencoder [→ Section 11.1]
Denoising diffusion probabilistic model [→ Section 12.1]
Dense [→ Section 4.5] [→ Section 5.4]
Derivative [→ Section 3.1] [→ Section 5.3]
Differentiable [→ Section 4.1]
Diffusion schedule [→ Section 12.3]
Dilution [→ Section 8.2]
Dimensionality reduction [→ Section 2.2]
Dimensions [→ Section 2.1]
Direct Preference Optimization [→ Section 10.5]
Discounted reward [→ Section 10.3]
Discount factor [→ Section 10.3]
Discounting [→ Section 10.2]
Discrete outcomes [→ Section 4.1]

--- Strana 1142 ---
Discrimination [→ Section 7.2]
Discriminative model [→ Section 11.1]
Discriminator-generator imbalance [→ Section 11.3]
Discriminator network [→ Section 11.3]
Distributional DQN [→ Section 10.3]
Divergence [→ Section 3.3] [→ Section 12.1]
Document clustering [→ Section 2.2]
Dot product [→ Section 5.3] [→ Section 9.1]
dot product [→ Section 9.2]
Double DQN [→ Section 10.3]
Downsampling [→ Section 7.2] [→ Section 8.2] [→ Section
8.2]
Dropout [→ Section 5.4] [→ Section 6.2] [→ Section 6.4]
[→ Section 9.3]
Drug discovery [→ Section 10.1]
Dual-model approach [→ Section 11.1]
Dueling DQN [→ Section 10.3]
Dying ReLU [→ Section 11.2]
Dying ReLU problem [→ Section 7.1]

--- Strana 1143 ---
Dynamic equilibrium [→ Section 11.3]
Dynamic programming [→ Section 10.1]
E ⇑
Eager execution [→ Section 5.2]
EarlyStopping [→ Section 8.3]
Edge detection [→ Section 7.1]
EfficientNet [→ Section 12.4]
Elastic Net [→ Section 6.3]
Element-wise multiplication [→ Section 7.1]
ELIZA [→ Section 2.1]
Embedding network [→ Section 8.3]
Embedding space [→ Section 8.3]
Emergent behavior [→ Section 12.2]
Encoder [→ Section 9.1] [→ Section 11.1]
Encoder-decoder [→ Section 8.1]
End-to-end learning [→ Section 4.2]
Energy function [→ Section 3.1]
Energy management [→ Section 10.1]
Ensemble [→ Section 6.2]

--- Strana 1144 ---
Ensemble methods [→ Section 6.2] [→ Section 8.2]
Entropy [→ Section 12.1]
Environment [→ Section 2.3] [→ Section 10.1]
continuous [→ Section 10.2]
deterministic [→ Section 10.2]
discrete [→ Section 10.2]
stochastic [→ Section 10.2]
Environment types [→ Section 10.2]
Episodic memory [→ Section 10.4]
Epoch [→ Section 3.2]
Epsilon decay [→ Section 10.4]
Epsilon-greedy approach [→ Section 10.2]
Equilibrium distribution [→ Section 12.1]
Equilibrium statistical mechanics [→ Section 12.1]
Error [→ Section 3.1]
Error propagation [→ Section 5.3]
Evaluation [→ Section 2.1]
Evaluation metrics [→ Section 5.4]
Expansive design [→ Section 11.3]

--- Strana 1145 ---
Experience [→ Section 3.1] [→ Section 10.1]
Experience replay [→ Section 10.3] [→ Section 10.4]
Exploitation [→ Section 2.3] [→ Section 10.1] [→ Section 10.2]
Exploration [→ Section 2.3] [→ Section 10.1] [→ Section 10.2]
Exploration-exploitation trade-off [→ Section 10.1]
Exponential moving averaging [→ Section 12.3]
F ⇑
F1 score [→ Section 5.4]
Factor parameter [→ Section 8.3]
False alarm [→ Section 5.4]
False negative [→ Section 2.2] [→ Section 5.4]
False positive [→ Section 2.2] [→ Section 5.4]
Fashion-MNIST [→ Section 11.1]
Feature [→ Section 3.1]
Feature discovery [→ Section 11.1]
Feature extraction [→ Section 7.2]
Feature extractor [→ Section 11.1]
Feature map [→ Section 7.1]
Feature matching [→ Section 11.3]

--- Strana 1146 ---
Feature reuse [→ Section 8.1]
Feature selection [→ Section 6.3]
Feedback [→ Section 10.1]
Feedback signal [→ Section 11.3]
Feed-forward neural network [→ Section 4.5]
Filter [→ Section 7.1]
Filter progression [→ Section 11.2]
Financial markets [→ Section 10.1]
Fine-tuning [→ Section 10.1]
Fit [→ Section 2.1]
Flatten [→ Section 5.4]
Flattening [→ Section 7.4]
Forward pass [→ Section 3.1] [→ Section 3.4] [→ Section 7.1]
[→ Section 8.2]
Frame skipping [→ Section 10.3]
Framing [→ Section 9.4]
Freezing [→ Section 8.4]
Frobenius norm [→ Section 11.1]
FrozenLake [→ Section 10.4]

--- Strana 1147 ---
Fully connected networks (FCN) [→ Section 7.1] [→ Section
7.1]
Functional API [→ Section 8.1] [→ Section 9.3]
Functional composition [→ Section 8.2]
Functional programming [→ Section 8.1]
Function approximators [→ Section 10.1]
G ⇑
Gaussian distribution [→ Section 7.1]
GaussianDropout [→ Section 6.4]
Gaussian Error Linear Unit (GeLU) [→ Section 7.1] [→ Section
7.1] [→ Section 7.1]
Gaussian filter [→ Section 7.1]
Gaussian noise [→ Section 11.1] [→ Section 12.1]
GaussianNoise [→ Section 6.4]
Gaussian noise injection [→ Section 11.3]
Gemini [→ Section 9.1]
Gemma [→ Section 9.4] [→ Section 12.4]
Generation [→ Section 8.2]
Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) [→ Section 11.2]
[→ Section 11.3]

--- Strana 1148 ---
Generative AI (GenAI) [→ Section 11.1]
Generative model [→ Section 11.1]
Generator network [→ Section 11.3]
Global average pooling [→ Section 11.3]
Global context [→ Section 8.3]
Glorot initialization [→ Section 5.3]
GloVe [→ Section 9.1]
Google Colab [→ Section 5.2]
Google Drive [→ Section 12.3]
GoogLeNet [→ Section 8.2]
Gradient accumulation [→ Section 5.3] [→ Section 9.3]
Gradient descent [→ Section 3.1]
step [→ Section 3.1]
Gradient tape [→ Section 5.3] [→ Section 10.4]
Greedy sampling [→ Section 9.4]
Grid world [→ Section 10.2]
Ground truth [→ Section 3.1]
Gymnasium [→ Section 10.4]

--- Strana 1149 ---
H ⇑
Hardware accelerator [→ Section 5.2]
HDF5 [→ Section 5.1] [→ Section 5.4]
Health care [→ Section 10.1]
Heterogeneous data [→ Section 8.2]
Hidden layer [→ Section 4.2]
Hierarchical feature [→ Section 8.2]
Hierarchical feature learning [→ Section 7.2]
High bias [→ Section 6.1]
High variance [→ Section 6.1]
Hindsight Experience Replay [→ Section 10.4]
Hugging Face [→ Section 12.4]
HWC format [→ Section 7.1]
Hyperband [→ Section 6.4]
Hyperparameter [→ Section 3.2] [→ Section 9.3]
Hyperparameter optimization [→ Section 6.1]
Hyperparameter tuning [→ Section 11.1]
Hypothesis function [→ Section 3.1]

--- Strana 1150 ---
I ⇑
Identity function [→ Section 8.3]
Identity shortcut [→ Section 8.2]
Image denoising [→ Section 11.1]
Image encoder [→ Section 8.2]
Image segmentation [→ Section 8.3]
Image space [→ Section 11.2]
Image-to-image [→ Section 12.4]
Image-to-image translation [→ Section 8.1]
Imbalanced dataset [→ Section 5.4]
Imminent reward [→ Section 10.4]
Immutability [→ Section 8.1]
Implicit regularization [→ Section 12.2]
Inception module [→ Section 8.1] [→ Section 8.2]
InceptionV3 [→ Section 12.3]
Incompatible shapes [→ Section 7.4]
Inequality detector [→ Section 4.2]
Inference [→ Section 11.1]
Information bottleneck [→ Section 8.1]

--- Strana 1151 ---
Inpainting [→ Section 12.4]
Input data [→ Section 3.1]
Input tensor [→ Section 7.4]
Instability [→ Section 11.2] [→ Section 12.1]
Intelligence [→ Section 2.1]
Intermediate representation [→ Section 2.2]
Internal covariate shift [→ Section 9.2] [→ Section 11.2]
Internal similarity [→ Section 12.3]
Interpolation [→ Section 11.2] [→ Section 12.1]
Interpretability [→ Section 6.3] [→ Section 10.3] [→ Section
11.1]
Interpretable [→ Section 11.1]
Interpretable machine learning [→ Section 6.3]
Inverted dropout [→ Section 6.2]
J ⇑
Jacobian matrix [→ Section 11.1]
JAX [→ Section 5.1]
K ⇑
Kaggle API [→ Section 9.4]

--- Strana 1152 ---
Kaggle Hub [→ Section 9.4] [→ Section 12.4]
Keras [→ Section 2.1] [→ Section 3.1]
Keras Hub [→ Section 9.4] [→ Section 12.4]
Keras Tuner [→ Section 5.1] [→ Section 6.4]
Kernel [→ Section 7.1]
Kernel Inception Distance [→ Section 12.3]
Kernel methods [→ Section 12.3]
Kernel trick [→ Section 4.2]
Key [→ Section 9.1] [→ Section 9.2]
KID [→ Section 12.3]
KL collapse [→ Section 11.2]
KL divergence [→ Section 10.5] [→ Section 11.2]
Kullback-Leibler [→ Section 10.5]
L ⇑
Labeled [→ Section 2.2]
Labeled data [→ Section 6.1]
Labeled example [→ Section 2.2]
Lambda layer [→ Section 7.2]
Lasso [→ Section 6.3]

--- Strana 1153 ---
Latent diffusion [→ Section 12.1]
Latent space [→ Section 11.1]
Layer [→ Section 2.1] [→ Section 5.1]
Layer block [→ Section 8.1]
Layer normalization [→ Section 9.2]
LayerNormalization [→ Section 9.3]
Layer sharing [→ Section 8.1]
Learned encoding [→ Section 9.2]
Learned loss function [→ Section 11.3]
Learned noise pattern [→ Section 11.2]
Learned representation [→ Section 11.1]
Learned structure [→ Section 11.1]
Learned transformation [→ Section 9.2]
Learning experience [→ Section 2.2]
Learning mechanism [→ Section 10.2]
Learning rate [→ Section 3.3] [→ Section 10.3]
Learning rate warmup [→ Section 9.3]
Linearly separable [→ Section 4.2]
Local details [→ Section 8.3]

--- Strana 1154 ---
Localized connection [→ Section 7.1]
Logarithmic spacing [→ Section 12.3]
Logistic regression [→ Section 4.1]
Log variance [→ Section 11.2]
Long-range dependency [→ Section 9.1]
Lookup table [→ Section 10.2]
Loss [→ Section 3.1]
binary cross-entropy [→ Section 4.1]
cross-entropy [→ Section 4.1]
Loss functions [→ Section 5.1]
Loss landscape [→ Section 3.1]
Low-rank adaptation [→ Section 9.3]
M ⇑
Machine learning [→ Section 2.1]
Machine translation [→ Section 9.2]
Markov chain [→ Section 12.1]
Markov Decision Processes [→ Section 10.2]
Markovian [→ Section 10.2]
Mask [→ Section 12.4]

--- Strana 1155 ---
Masking [→ Section 9.2]
matmul [→ Section 5.3]
matplotlib [→ Section 2.1]
Mean squared error [→ Section 3.1] [→ Section 9.1]
Mesh plot [→ Section 3.1]
Metrics [→ Section 2.1] [→ Section 5.1]
Mini-batch [→ Section 3.2]
Mini-batch gradient descent [→ Section 3.2]
Minimax framework [→ Section 11.3]
Minimax game [→ Section 11.3]
Misalignment [→ Section 4.1]
Mixed precision training [→ Section 9.3]
MMD [→ Section 11.2]
Mode collapse [→ Section 11.3] [→ Section 12.1]
Mode coverage [→ Section 11.3]
Model [→ Section 3.1]
loading [→ Section 5.4]
saving [→ Section 5.4]
ModelCheckpoint [→ Section 5.4] [→ Section 8.3]

--- Strana 1156 ---
Model parameters [→ Section 3.1]
Model serialization [→ Section 5.1]
Model storage [→ Section 5.1]
Molecular structure [→ Section 10.1]
Momentum [→ Section 4.1]
Moving target [→ Section 10.4]
Multi-agent system [→ Section 10.2]
Multi-channel tensor [→ Section 7.1]
Multi-head attention [→ Section 9.1] [→ Section 9.2]
[→ Section 9.3]
Multi-input fusion [→ Section 8.1]
Multi-label classification [→ Section 4.1]
Multimodal learning [→ Section 8.1]
Multimodal systems [→ Section 12.4]
Multiple inputs and outputs [→ Section 8.1]
Multi-scale features [→ Section 8.2]
Multitask learning [→ Section 8.1]
Mutually exclusive classes [→ Section 4.1]

--- Strana 1157 ---
N ⇑
Nadam [→ Section 4.1]
Nearest neighbor interpolation [→ Section 8.3]
Network traffic analysis [→ Section 2.2]
Neural network [→ Section 2.1] [→ Section 2.1]
artificial [→ Section 2.4]
Neuron [→ Section 2.4]
Noise estimate [→ Section 12.1]
Noise schedule [→ Section 12.1]
Nonlinear topology [→ Section 8.1]
Nonlinear transformation [→ Section 4.2]
Normalization [→ Section 5.4]
NumPy [→ Section 2.1]
NVIDIA GPU [→ Section 5.2]
O ⇑
Observation [→ Section 10.2]
Off-policy algorithm [→ Section 10.3]
One-hot encoding [→ Section 4.3] [→ Section 7.3] [→ Section
9.1]

--- Strana 1158 ---
One-hot vector [→ Section 4.3]
One-vs-all [→ Section 4.3]
On-policy learning [→ Section 10.5]
OpenAI Gym [→ Section 10.4]
Operation recording [→ Section 5.3]
Optimizer [→ Section 3.4]
Optimizers [→ Section 5.1]
Ordering [→ Section 4.3]
Orthogonal [→ Section 9.1]
Oscillation [→ Section 12.1]
Outlier [→ Section 2.2]
Out-of-distribution [→ Section 10.5]
Outpainting [→ Section 12.4]
Output data [→ Section 3.1]
Output layer [→ Section 4.2]
Output tensor [→ Section 7.4]
Overfitting [→ Section 2.1] [→ Section 6.1] [→ Section 6.1]
[→ Section 6.1]

--- Strana 1159 ---
P ⇑
Padding [→ Section 7.1]
valid [→ Section 7.2]
Parameterized [→ Section 3.1]
Partial derivative [→ Section 3.1]
Patience [→ Section 8.3]
Pattern completion [→ Section 11.1]
Pattern-matching [→ Section 2.1]
Performance measure [→ Section 3.1]
Piecewise function [→ Section 4.1]
PIL [→ Section 7.1]
Policy [→ Section 2.3] [→ Section 10.2]
deterministic [→ Section 10.2]
stochastic [→ Section 10.2]
Polynomial features [→ Section 6.1]
Pooling
average [→ Section 7.2]
axis-specific [→ Section 7.2]
global [→ Section 7.2]
max [→ Section 7.2]

--- Strana 1160 ---
min [→ Section 7.2]
Pool size [→ Section 7.2]
Positional encoding [→ Section 9.1] [→ Section 9.2]
Positional signature [→ Section 9.3]
Position encoding [→ Section 12.3]
Positive predictive value [→ Section 5.4]
Potential negative outcomes [→ Section 10.4]
Precision [→ Section 5.4]
Precision medicine [→ Section 2.2]
Prediction [→ Section 2.1] [→ Section 3.1]
Prefetching [→ Section 5.4] [→ Section 8.3]
Prenormalization [→ Section 9.3]
Preprocessor [→ Section 9.4]
Pretrained GloVe embedding [→ Section 9.1]
Pretrained model [→ Section 5.1] [→ Section 8.1]
Principal Component Analysis (PCA) [→ Section 2.2]
[→ Section 9.1] [→ Section 9.1]
Prioritized experience replay [→ Section 10.3] [→ Section
10.4] [→ Section 10.4]

--- Strana 1161 ---
Prior knowledge [→ Section 6.1]
Probability cloud [→ Section 11.2]
Probability distribution [→ Section 11.2]
Probability map [→ Section 8.3]
Prompt engineering [→ Section 9.4]
Proximal Policy Optimization [→ Section 10.5]
pyenv [→ Section 5.2]
Python Imaging Library [→ Section 7.1]
PyTorch [→ Section 4.2] [→ Section 5.1]
Q ⇑
Q-learning [→ Section 10.1] [→ Section 10.3]
Quantitative feedback [→ Section 10.2]
Query [→ Section 9.1] [→ Section 9.2]
Query image [→ Section 11.1]
Q-value update [→ Section 10.4]
R ⇑
R2D2 [→ Section 10.4]
Random forests [→ Section 6.2]
Random guess [→ Section 2.2]

--- Strana 1162 ---
Random noise [→ Section 6.1]
Random seed [→ Section 3.4]
Rank [→ Section 5.3]
Recall [→ Section 5.4]
Recommendation system [→ Section 2.2] [→ Section 8.1]
Reconstructed [→ Section 11.1]
Reconstruction failure [→ Section 11.2]
Reconstruction loss [→ Section 11.1] [→ Section 11.2]
Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU) [→ Section 4.5] [→ Section 7.1]
[→ Section 7.1] [→ Section 7.1] [→ Section 11.1]
Recurrent neural network [→ Section 9.1]
reduce_max [→ Section 7.2]
ReduceLROnPlateau [→ Section 8.3]
Regression [→ Section 2.2] [→ Section 3.1]
polynomial [→ Section 6.1]
Regret [→ Section 10.2]
Regularization [→ Section 6.1] [→ Section 9.3]
Regularization term [→ Section 11.1]

--- Strana 1163 ---
regularization term [→ Section 6.1]
L1 [→ Section 6.3]
L2 [→ Section 6.1]
Regularizer [→ Section 7.2]
Reinforcement learning [→ Section 2.1] [→ Section 10.1]
Reinforcement learning from human feedback [→ Section
10.1] [→ Section 10.5]
Reinforcement learning loop [→ Section 10.2]
Reinforcement learning optimization [→ Section 10.5]
Reinforcement learning with AI feedback [→ Section 10.5]
Relative positional encoding [→ Section 9.3]
Reparameterization trick [→ Section 11.2]
Replay buffer [→ Section 10.3] [→ Section 10.4]
Representation learning [→ Section 12.2]
Reproducible experiments [→ Section 3.4]
Residual connection [→ Section 8.1] [→ Section 8.2]
[→ Section 9.2]
Residual Network (ResNet) [→ Section 8.3]
ResNet [→ Section 8.2]
Resource management [→ Section 10.1]

--- Strana 1164 ---
Reverse mode differentiation [→ Section 5.3]
Reward [→ Section 2.3] [→ Section 10.1]
cumulative [→ Section 10.2]
intermediate [→ Section 10.2]
Reward clipping [→ Section 10.3]
Reward engineering [→ Section 10.2]
Reward function [→ Section 10.3]
Reward hacking [→ Section 10.2]
Reward model training [→ Section 10.5]
Reward signals [→ Section 10.1]
Reward Structure [→ Section 10.2]
Risk-averse [→ Section 10.4]
RMSprop [→ Section 4.1]
Robotics [→ Section 10.1]
Rule [→ Section 2.1]
S ⇑
Sampling [→ Section 11.2]
Sampling problem [→ Section 12.1]
Scaled dot-product attention [→ Section 9.2]

--- Strana 1165 ---
Scatterplot [→ Section 3.1]
Schedule
cosine [→ Section 12.1]
linear [→ Section 12.1]
scikit-learn [→ Section 5.1]
Segmentation [→ Section 2.2]
Self-attention [→ Section 9.1]
Self-driving car [→ Section 2.1]
Self-gating behavior [→ Section 11.1]
Self-normalizing neural networks [→ Section 6.4]
SELU [→ Section 6.4]
Semantic binding [→ Section 12.2]
Semantic essence [→ Section 12.2]
Semantic image search [→ Section 11.1]
Semantic loophole [→ Section 10.5]
Semantic space [→ Section 9.1]
Semi-supervised learning [→ Section 2.1]
Sensitivity [→ Section 5.4]
Sentiment analysis [→ Section 8.2]

--- Strana 1166 ---
Sequence data [→ Section 9.1]
Sequence encoder [→ Section 8.2]
Sequence modeling [→ Section 9.1]
Sequential [→ Section 5.4]
Sequential dependency [→ Section 9.1]
Sequential model [→ Section 4.5]
Shallow network [→ Section 8.2]
Shape [→ Section 2.1]
Shaped reward [→ Section 10.2]
Shape mismatch [→ Section 3.4] [→ Section 7.4] [→ Section
8.3]
Shared-trunk [→ Section 11.3]
Sharing weights [→ Section 7.1]
Shuffling [→ Section 8.3]
Siamese network [→ Section 8.1]
Sigmoid [→ Section 4.1]
Signal rate [→ Section 12.3]
Similarity [→ Section 2.2]
Similarity detection [→ Section 8.3]

--- Strana 1167 ---
Sinusoidal embedding [→ Section 12.3]
Sinusoidal encoding [→ Section 9.2]
Sinusoidal positional encoding [→ Section 12.1]
Skip connection [→ Section 8.1] [→ Section 8.1] [→ Section
9.2] [→ Section 11.1]
sklearn [→ Section 2.1] [→ Section 6.1]
Sliding window [→ Section 9.1]
Sobel operator [→ Section 7.1]
Softmax [→ Section 2.1] [→ Section 7.5]
Softmax function [→ Section 4.3]
Softmax layer [→ Section 4.3]
Spam filtering [→ Section 2.2]
Sparse [→ Section 12.1]
Sparse and delayed reward [→ Section 10.4]
Sparse autoencoder [→ Section 11.1]
Sparse categorical cross-entropy [→ Section 4.4]
Sparse connectivity [→ Section 7.1]
Sparse model [→ Section 6.3]
Sparse reward [→ Section 10.1]

--- Strana 1168 ---
Sparse reward problem [→ Section 10.2]
SpatialDropout [→ Section 6.4]
Spatial locality [→ Section 7.2]
Spatial relationship [→ Section 7.2]
Spatial relationships [→ Section 11.1]
Specificity [→ Section 9.1]
Spectral normalization [→ Section 11.3]
Speech recognition [→ Section 8.2]
Spread [→ Section 11.2]
Squishing [→ Section 4.1]
Squishing function [→ Section 4.1] [→ Section 4.1]
Stability [→ Section 10.3] [→ Section 10.4] [→ Section 11.1]
Stable Diffusion [→ Section 12.1]
Stable oscillations [→ Section 11.3]
State [→ Section 10.1]
State explosion [→ Section 10.1]
State space explosion [→ Section 10.1]
State-value function [→ Section 10.3]
Stochastic gradient descent [→ Section 3.2]

--- Strana 1169 ---
Stochasticity [→ Section 11.2]
Stochastic sampling [→ Section 12.2]
Stride [→ Section 7.1]
Strided convolutions [→ Section 7.2]
Supervised fine-tuning [→ Section 10.5]
Supervised learning [→ Section 2.1]
SwiGLU [→ Section 11.1]
Swish [→ Section 12.3]
Symbolic computation [→ Section 5.1] [→ Section 5.3]
Symmetric architecture [→ Section 11.1]
T ⇑
Target network [→ Section 10.3]
Task [→ Section 3.1]
Task-specific head [→ Section 9.4]
Temperature parameter [→ Section 10.2]
Temperature scaling [→ Section 9.4]
Temporal difference [→ Section 10.4]
Temporal diversity [→ Section 12.2]
Temporal gap [→ Section 10.1]

--- Strana 1170 ---
Tensor [→ Section 5.3] [→ Section 7.1]
TensorFlow [→ Section 2.1] [→ Section 4.2]
constants [→ Section 5.3]
datasets [→ Section 8.3]
variables [→ Section 5.3]
Tensor Processing Unit (TPU) [→ Section 5.2] [→ Section 5.2]
Test set [→ Section 3.1] [→ Section 6.1] [→ Section 6.1]
Text conditioning [→ Section 12.1] [→ Section 12.4]
Text encoder [→ Section 12.1]
Text-to-image [→ Section 12.1]
Text-to-image generator [→ Section 12.4]
Theano [→ Section 5.1]
Threshold [→ Section 4.1]
Time reversal symmetry [→ Section 12.1]
Time series [→ Section 7.2]
Time series data [→ Section 9.1]
Time-step conditioning [→ Section 12.1]
Token [→ Section 9.4]
Tokenizer [→ Section 9.4] [→ Section 12.4]

--- Strana 1171 ---
Top-k sampling [→ Section 9.4]
Top-p (nucleus) sampling [→ Section 9.4]
torchaudio [→ Section 5.1]
torchvision [→ Section 5.1]
Training collapse [→ Section 11.3]
Training instability [→ Section 11.3]
Training set [→ Section 3.1] [→ Section 5.4] [→ Section 6.1]
Transfer learning [→ Section 8.4] [→ Section 12.3] [→ Section
12.3]
Transformed feature [→ Section 4.2]
Transformer [→ Section 7.1]
Transformer layer [→ Section 6.2]
Transformer model [→ Section 8.1]
Transition dynamics [→ Section 10.3]
Transition function [→ Section 10.3]
Translation invariance [→ Section 7.2] [→ Section 11.3]
Transportation [→ Section 10.1]
Transpose convolution [→ Section 11.2]
True negative [→ Section 5.4]

--- Strana 1172 ---
True positive [→ Section 5.4]
True positive rate [→ Section 5.4]
t-SNE [→ Section 9.1]
Tuple [→ Section 2.1]
Two-dimensional convolutional layer [→ Section 7.1]
Type I error [→ Section 5.4]
Type II error [→ Section 5.4]
U ⇑
Uncertainty [→ Section 11.1]
Underfitting [→ Section 6.1] [→ Section 6.1] [→ Section 6.1]
Unfreezing [→ Section 8.4]
Uniform distribution [→ Section 11.2]
Unlabeled [→ Section 2.2]
Unlabeled data [→ Section 2.2]
Unsupervised learning [→ Section 2.1] [→ Section 2.2]
Update signal [→ Section 7.1]
Upper Confidence Bound [→ Section 10.2]
Upsampling [→ Section 8.3] [→ Section 11.1] [→ Section 12.3]

--- Strana 1173 ---
V ⇑
VAE [→ Section 11.2]
Validation set [→ Section 5.4] [→ Section 6.1]
Value [→ Section 9.2]
Value function [→ Section 10.1] [→ Section 10.3]
Vanilla autoencoder [→ Section 11.1]
Vanishing gradient [→ Section 7.1] [→ Section 8.1]
Variational autoencoder [→ Section 11.2]
Vectorization [→ Section 5.3]
W ⇑
Wasserstein [→ Section 11.2]
Weight [→ Section 4.2]
Weight decay [→ Section 12.2]
Weight sharing [→ Section 8.3]
Word embeddings [→ Section 9.1]
X ⇑
XOR [→ Section 4.2]
Z ⇑
Zero initialization [→ Section 12.3]

--- Strana 1174 ---
Zero-sum game [→ Section 11.3]
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1175 ---
Service Pages
The following sections contain notes on how you can contact us. In
addition, you are provided with further recommendations on the
customization of the screen layout for your e-book.
Praise and Criticism
We hope that you enjoyed reading this book. If it met your
expectations, please do recommend it. If you think there is room for
improvement, please get in touch with the editor of the book: Rachel
Gibson. We welcome every suggestion for improvement but, of
course, also any praise! You can also share your reading experience
via Social Media or email.
Supplements
If there are supplements available (sample code, exercise materials,
lists, and so on), they will be provided in your online library and on
the web catalog page for this book. You can directly navigate to this
page using the following link: https://www.rheinwerk-
computing.com/6142. Should we learn about typos that alter the

--- Strana 1176 ---
meaning or content errors, we will provide a list with corrections
there, too.
Technical Issues
If you experience technical issues with your e-book or e-book
account at Rheinwerk Computing, please feel free to contact our
reader service: support@rheinwerk-publishing.com.
Please note, however, that issues regarding the screen presentation
of the book content are usually not caused by errors in the e-book
document. Because nearly every reading device (computer, tablet,
smartphone, e-book reader) interprets the EPUB or Mobi file format
differently, it is unfortunately impossible to set up the e-book
document in such a way that meets the requirements of all use
cases.
In addition, not all reading devices provide the same text
presentation functions and not all functions work properly. Finally,
you as the user also define with your settings how the book content
is displayed on the screen.
The EPUB format, as currently provided and handled by the device
manufacturers, is actually primarily suitable for the display of mere
text documents, such as novels. Difficulties arise as soon as
technical text contains figures, tables, footnotes, marginal notes, or
programming code. For more information, please refer to the section
Notes on the Screen Presentation and the following section.

--- Strana 1177 ---
Should none of the recommended settings satisfy your layout
requirements, we recommend that you use the PDF version of the
book, which is available for download in your online library.
Recommendations for Screen Presentation
and Navigation
We recommend using a sans-serif font, such as Arial or Seravek,
and a low font size of approx. 30–40% in portrait format and 20–30%
in landscape format. The background shouldn’t be too bright.
Make use of the hyphenation option. If it doesn't work properly,
align the text to the left margin. Otherwise, justify the text.
To perform searches in the e-book, the index of the book will reliably
guide you to the really relevant pages of the book. If the index
doesn't help, you can use the search function of your reading device.
Since it is available as a double-page spread in landscape format,
the table of contents we’ve included probably gives a better
overview of the content and the structure of the book than the
corresponding function of your reading device. To enable you to
easily open the table of contents anytime, it has been included as a
separate entry in the device-generated table of contents.
If you want to zoom in on a figure, tap the respective figure once.
By tapping once again, you return to the previous screen. If you tap
twice (on the iPad), the figure is displayed in the original size and

--- Strana 1178 ---
then has to be zoomed in to the desired size. If you tap once, the
figure is directly zoomed in and displayed with a higher resolution.
For books that contain programming code, please note that the
code lines may be wrapped incorrectly or displayed incompletely as
of a certain font size. In case of doubt, please reduce the font size.
About Us and Our Program
The website https://www.rheinwerk-computing.com provides detailed
and first-hand information on our current publishing program. Here,
you can also easily order all of our books and e-books. Information
on Rheinwerk Publishing Inc. and additional contact options can also
be found at https://www.rheinwerk-computing.com.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1179 ---
Legal Notes
This section contains the detailed and legally binding usage
conditions for this e-book.
Copyright Note
This publication is protected by copyright in its entirety. All usage and
exploitation rights are reserved by the author and Rheinwerk
Publishing; in particular the right of reproduction and the right of
distribution, be it in printed or electronic form.
© 2026 by Rheinwerk Publishing Inc., Boston (MA)
Your Rights as a User
You are entitled to use this e-book for personal purposes only. In
particular, you may print the e-book for personal use or copy it as
long as you store this copy on a device that is solely and personally
used by yourself. You are not entitled to any other usage or
exploitation.

--- Strana 1180 ---
In particular, it is not permitted to forward electronic or printed copies
to third parties. Furthermore, it is not permitted to distribute the e-
book on the internet, in intranets, or in any other way or make it
available to third parties. Any public exhibition, other publication, or
any reproduction of the e-book beyond personal use are expressly
prohibited. The aforementioned does not only apply to the e-book in
its entirety but also to parts thereof (e.g., charts, pictures, tables,
sections of text).
Copyright notes, brands, and other legal reservations may not be
removed from the e-book.
No part of this book may be used or reproduced in any manner for
the purpose of training artificial intelligence technologies or systems.
In accordance with Article 4(3) of the Digital Single Market Directive
2019/790, Rheinwerk Publishing, Inc. expressly reserves this work
from text and data mining.
Trademarks
The common names, trade names, descriptions of goods, and so on
used in this publication may be trademarks without special
identification and subject to legal regulations as such.
All products mentioned in this book are registered or unregistered
trademarks of their respective companies.

--- Strana 1181 ---
Limitation of Liability
Regardless of the care that has been taken in creating texts, figures,
and programs, neither the publisher nor the author, editor, or
translator assume any legal responsibility or any liability for possible
errors and their consequences.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1182 ---
The Document Archive
The Document Archive contains all figures, and tables, if any, for
your convenience.
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1183 ---
Figure 2.1     Sample Digits in the MNIST Dataset
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1184 ---
Figure 2.2     A Simple Example of a Digit Correctly Identified
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1185 ---
Figure 2.3     An Intermediate Example with Some
Complexity
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1186 ---
Figure 2.4     A Difficult-to-Identify Example Still Correctly
Recognized
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1187 ---
Figure 2.5     Common Sources of Learning
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1188 ---
Figure 2.6     Growth of Labeled versus Unlabeled Data
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1189 ---
Figure 2.7     Types of Machine Learning Based on Answers
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1190 ---
Figure 2.8     Unguided Unsupervised Learning Might
Produce Unneeded Results
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1191 ---
Figure 2.9     State Changes, Rewards, and Actions in
Reinforcement Learning
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1192 ---
Figure 2.10     Layers in Neural Networks
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1193 ---
Figure 2.11     Opening Google Drive
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1194 ---
Figure 2.12     Connect More Apps to Google Drive
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1195 ---
Figure 2.13     Searching for Google Colaboratory
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1196 ---
Figure 2.14     The Google Colaboratory Add-In
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1197 ---
Figure 2.15     Installing Add-Ins to Google Drive
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1198 ---
Figure 2.16     Google Colaboratory as an Additional File
Type
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1199 ---
Figure 2.17     The Settings Icon in a Google Colab File
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1200 ---
Figure 2.18     Selecting the Theme for Your Notebook
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1201 ---
Figure 2.19     Inserting and Executing Code in Cells
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1202 ---
Figure 3.1     Typical Machine Learning Pipeline
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1203 ---
Figure 3.2     Making Predictions in the Wild
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1204 ---
Figure 3.3     Scatterplot of the Dataset
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1205 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1206 ---
Figure 3.4     Error Bars on the Random Parameter Model
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1207 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1208 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1209 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1210 ---
Figure 3.5     Model with Better Parameter Values
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1211 ---
Figure 3.6     Landscape of the Error Function Based on
Model Parameters
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1212 ---
Figure 3.7     Underlying Shape of the Loss Plot
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1213 ---
Figure 3.8     Derivative at Model Parameter Value at 2
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1214 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1215 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1216 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1217 ---
Figure 3.9     Derivative at Model Parameter Value 9
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1218 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1219 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1220 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1221 ---
Figure 3.10     Mesh Plot with Two Model Parameters
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1222 ---
Figure 3.11     A Slice Through the 3D Landscape
Demonstrating a Partial Derivative
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1223 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1224 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1225 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1226 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1227 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1228 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1229 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1230 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1231 ---
Figure 3.12     Visualizing Higher Dimensions
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1232 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1233 ---
Figure 3.13     Contour Plot Mapping the 3D Landscape to
the 2D Plane
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1234 ---
Figure 3.14     Gradient Descent Steps in Stochastic Gradient
Descent
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1235 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1236 ---
Figure 3.15     Divergence of Model Parameter Values in
Gradient Descent
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1237 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1238 ---
Figure 3.16     Slow Convergence During Gradient Descent
Steps
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1239 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1240 ---
Figure 4.1     Plotting Tumor Data for Classification
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1241 ---
Figure 4.2     First Attempt at Classification Using the
Regression Technique
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1242 ---
Figure 4.3     Sigmoid Function
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1243 ---
Figure 4.4     Making Predictions After Adding Thresholds
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1244 ---
Figure 4.5     Adding an Extreme Outlier Data Point to the
Dataset
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1245 ---
Figure 4.6     Values for the Negative Log Functions
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1246 ---
Figure 4.7     Decision Boundary Based on Hypothesis
Function
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1247 ---
Figure 4.8     Impossible Decision Boundary for the Simple
XOR Function
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1248 ---
Figure 4.9     Modified Features Lead to a Clear Decision
Boundary for XOR
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1249 ---
Figure 4.10     Transforming Feature Spaces
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1250 ---
Figure 4.11     Logistic Regression Unit
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1251 ---
Figure 4.12     Learning Feature Transformations
Automatically
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1252 ---
Figure 4.13     Deep Neural Network and Shapes of
Parameter Matrices
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1253 ---
Figure 4.14     Binary, Categorical, and Sparse Categorical
Cross-Entropy Losses
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1254 ---
Figure 5.1     Keras Components and Ecosystem
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1255 ---
Figure 5.2     Changing the Runtime Type in Colab
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1256 ---
Figure 5.3     Setting Colab to Use a GPU
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1257 ---
Figure 6.1     Linear Model for a Quadratic Relationship
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1258 ---
Figure 6.2     Quadratic Model for the Quadratic Relationship
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1259 ---
Figure 6.3     8th Order Polynomial Fitting the Same Data
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1260 ---
Figure 6.4     12th Order Polynomial Fitting the Same Data
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1261 ---
Figure 6.5     Introducing the Test Set into the Mix
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1262 ---
Figure 6.6     Effect of Lambda on Contour Plots and
Minimizing Values
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1263 ---
Figure 6.7     Effect of Regularization on Training and Testing
Losses
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1264 ---
Figure 6.8     An Obstructed Image
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1265 ---
Figure 7.1     Sigmoid Activation Function and Its Derivative
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1266 ---
Figure 7.2     Fully Connected Network (FCN) with Back
Propagation
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1267 ---
Figure 7.3     ReLU and Its Derivative
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1268 ---
Figure 7.4     GeLU and Its Derivative
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1269 ---
Figure 7.5     The Convolution Operator with a Single Kernel
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1270 ---
Figure 7.6     Applying a Convolution Filter to an Image
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1271 ---
Figure 7.7     Applying Convolution on a Three-Channel Input
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1272 ---
Figure 7.8     Applying a Three-Channel Convolution Filter
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1273 ---
Figure 7.9     A Convolutional Neural Network
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1274 ---
Figure 8.1     Residual Connection Architecture
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1275 ---
Figure 8.2     Snippet from the ResNet Model Showing the
Skip Connection and Projection
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1276 ---
Figure 8.3     Learning Speeds With and Without Residual
Connections
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1277 ---
Figure 8.4     Output of make_pairs Function Showing
Distance as a Label
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1278 ---
Figure 8.5     Predictions of the Trained Siamese Network
Model
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1279 ---
Figure 8.6     Examples of Images and Masks from the
Dataset

--- Strana 1280 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1281 ---
Figure 8.7     Results of the U-Net Model
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1282 ---
Figure 8.8     Example Images from the EuroSAT Dataset
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1283 ---
Figure 8.9     Results of Transfer Learning and Fine-Tuning
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1284 ---
Figure 9.1     Predicted Values Based on the Learned
Parameters
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1285 ---
Figure 9.2     2D Projection of Word Embeddings of Related
Words
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1286 ---
Figure 9.3     Self-Attention Between Words in a Sentence
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1287 ---
Figure 9.4     Self-Attention Represented as an Upper
Triangular Matrix
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1288 ---
Figure 9.5     Encoder Architecture
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1289 ---
Figure 9.6     Components Used for Building a LLM in Keras
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1290 ---
Figure 9.7     Kaggle Hub Login Screen
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1291 ---
Figure 9.8     Creating an API Token for Kaggle
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1292 ---
Figure 9.9     Requesting Access on Kaggle Hub
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1293 ---
Figure 10.1     Basic Reinforcement Learning Architecture
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1294 ---
Figure 10.2     Components of the Reinforcement Learning
Ecosystem
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1295 ---
Figure 10.3     Q-Learning Worked Out Example

--- Strana 1296 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1297 ---
Figure 10.4     The FrozenLake Environment
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1298 ---
Figure 10.5     Visualizing the Learned Policy
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1299 ---
Figure 11.1     Typical Architecture of an Autoencoder
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1300 ---
Figure 11.2     Autoencoder Image Reconstruction Results
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1301 ---
Figure 11.3     Results of a Denoising Autoencoder

--- Strana 1302 ---
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1303 ---
Figure 11.4     Training Curves of Reconstruction Loss and
KL Loss
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1304 ---
Figure 11.5     Image Generation Through the VAE
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1305 ---
Figure 11.6     Results of Interpolation Between a Boat and
Car
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1306 ---
Figure 11.7     Architecture of a Vanilla GAN
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1307 ---
Figure 11.8     Architecture of ACGANs
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1308 ---
Figure 11.9     Fake Images Generated by the Trained GAN
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1309 ---
Figure 12.1     Architecture of the Stable Diffusion Model
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1310 ---
Figure 12.2     Generation in Latent Diffusion
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1311 ---
Figure 12.3     Initial Generation After a Single Epoch of
Training
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1312 ---
Figure 12.4     Image Generation Results After 10 Epochs
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1313 ---
Figure 12.5     Images Generated After 65 Epochs
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1314 ---
Figure 12.6     Progression from Noise to a Realistic Image in
Stable Diffusion
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1315 ---
Figure 12.7     Result of Text-to-Image Generation
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 1316 ---
Figure 12.8     Results of Inpainting with Stable Diffusion
OceanofPDF.com
