
--- Strana 1 ---

--- Strana 2 ---
Contents
1. Learning OpenCV 5 Computer Vision with Python Fourth Edition
Tackle tools techniques and algorithms for computer vision and
machine learning
2. Join our book community on Discord
3. Technical requirements
4. What's new in OpenCV 5
5. Optimizing OpenCV for specific hardware
6. Choosing and using the right setup tools
7. Running the official sample code
8. Finding documentation help and updates
9. Finding this book s sample code
10. Summary
11. Join our book community on Discord
12. Technical requirements
13. Basic I O scripts
14. Project Cameo (face tracking and image manipulation)
15. Cameo an object-oriented design
16. Summary
17. Join our book community on Discord
18. Technical requirements
19. Converting images between different color models
20. Exploring the Fourier transform
21. Creating modules
22. Edge detection
23. Custom kernels getting convoluted
24. Modifying the application
25. Edge detection with Canny
26. Contour detection
27. Detecting lines circles and other shapes
28. Summary
29. Join our book community on Discord
30. Technical requirements
31. Conceptualizing Haar cascades
32. Getting Haar cascade data

--- Strana 3 ---
33. Using OpenCV to perform face detection
34. Performing face recognition
35. Swapping faces in infrared
36. Summary
37. Join our book community on Discord
38. Technical requirements
39. Understanding types of feature detection and matching
40. Detecting Harris corners
41. Detecting DoG features and extracting SIFT descriptors
42. Detecting Fast Hessian features and extracting SURF descriptors
43. Using ORB with FAST features and BRIEF descriptors
44. Filtering matches using K-Nearest Neighbors and the ratio test
45. Matching with FLANN
46. Finding homography with FLANN-based matches
47. A sample application tattoo forensics
48. Summary
49. Join our book community on Discord
50. Technical requirements
51. Understanding HOG descriptors
52. Understanding NMS
53. Understanding SVMs
54. Detecting people with HOG descriptors
55. Creating and training an object detector
56. Detecting cars
57. Summary
58. Join our book community on Discord
59. Technical requirements
60. Detecting moving objects with background subtraction
61. Tracking colorful objects using MeanShift and CamShift
62. Finding trends in motion using the Kalman filter
63. Tracking pedestrians
64. Summary
65. Join our book community on Discord
66. Technical requirements
67. Understanding 3D image tracking and augmented reality
68. Implementing the demo application
69. Improving the 3D tracking algorithm

--- Strana 4 ---
70. Summary
71. Join our book community on Discord
72. Technical requirements
73. Understanding ANNs
74. Training a basic ANN in OpenCV
75. Training an ANN classifier in multiple epochs
76. Recognizing handwritten digits with an ANN
77. Using DNNs from other frameworks in OpenCV
78. Detecting and classifying objects with third-party DNNs
79. Detecting and classifying faces with third-party DNNs
80. Using OpenCV with MediaPipe and Tensorflow to classify gestures
and actions
81. Summary
82. Join our book community on Discord
83. What are Containers
84. Docker Basics
85. AWS Serverless (Fargate Lambda) and AWS SAM
86. Conclusion
OceanofPDF.com

--- Strana 5 ---
Learning OpenCV 5 Computer
Vision with Python, Fourth
Edition: Tackle tools, techniques,
and algorithms for computer vision
and machine learning
Welcome to Packt Early Access . We’re giving you an exclusive preview
of this book before it goes on sale. It can take many months to write a book,
but our authors have cutting-edge information to share with you today.
Early Access gives you an insight into the latest developments by making
chapter drafts available. The chapters may be a little rough around the edges
right now, but our authors will update them over time.
You can dip in and out of this book or follow along from start to finish; Early
Access is designed to be flexible. We hope you enjoy getting to know more
about the process of writing a Packt book.
1. Chapter 1: Setting Up OpenCV
2. Chapter 2: Handling Files, Cameras, and GUIs
3. Chapter 3: Processing Images with OpenCV
4. Chapter 4: Depth Estimation and Segmentation
5. Chapter 5: Detecting and Recognizing Faces
6. Chapter 6: Retrieving Images and Searching Using Image Descriptors
7. Chapter 7: Building Custom Object Detector
8. Chapter 8: Tracking Objects
9. Chapter 9: Camera Models and Augmented Reality
10. Chapter 10: 3D Reconstruction and Navigation
11. Chapter 11: Introduction to Neural Networks with OpenCV
12. Chapter 12: OpenCV Applications at Scale

--- Strana 6 ---
Join our book community on
Discord
https://discord.gg/djGjeMECxw
You've picked up this book, so you may already have an idea of what
OpenCV is. Maybe you have heard of capabilities that seem to come
straight out of science fiction, such as training an artificial intelligence
model to recognize anything that it sees through a camera. If this is your
interest, you will not be disappointed! OpenCV stands for Open Source
Computer Vision . It is a free computer vision library that allows you to
manipulate images and videos to accomplish a variety of tasks, from
displaying frames from a webcam to teaching a robot to recognize real-life
objects.
In this book, you will learn how to leverage the immense potential of
OpenCV with the Python programming language. Python is an elegant
language with a relatively shallow learning curve and very powerful
features. This chapter is a quick guide to setting up Python 3, OpenCV 5,
and other dependencies. As part of OpenCV, we will set up the
opencv_contrib modules, which offer additional functionality that is
maintained by the OpenCV community rather than the core development
team. After the setup, we will also look at OpenCV's Python sample scripts
and documentation.

--- Strana 7 ---
The following related libraries are covered in this chapter:
NumPy : This library is a dependency of OpenCV's Python bindings.
It provides numeric computing functionality, including efficient arrays.
SciPy : This library is a scientific computing library that is closely
related to NumPy. It is not required by OpenCV, but it is useful if you
wish to manipulate data in OpenCV images.
OpenNI 2 : This library is an optional dependency of OpenCV. It adds
support for certain depth cameras, such as the Asus Xtion PRO.
For this book's purposes, OpenNI 2 can be considered optional. It is used
throughout Chapter 4 , Depth Estimation and Segmentation , but is not used
in the other chapters or appendices.
Optionally, if we build OpenCV with a custom configuration, we can
include support for OpenNI 2, and we can even include OpenCV’s
implementations of some patented algorithms, which OpenCV calls non-
free . Notably, one of our code samples in Chapter 6 , Retrieving Images
and Searching Using Image Descriptors , relies on a patented algorithm
called SURF. However, the rest of the book does not use any patented
algorithms, so this non-free content can be considered optional, and in any
case, patent restrictions may make it unsuitable for redistribution in your
future projects.
This book focuses on OpenCV 5, the new major release of the
OpenCV library. Additional information about OpenCV is available at
https://opencv.org/ , and the official documentation is available at
https://docs.opencv.org/master .
We will cover the following topics in this chapter:
What's new in OpenCV 5
Choosing and using the right setup tools
Running samples
Finding documentation, help, and updates
Again, it is worth mentioning that this chapter includes optional instructions
on how to build OpenCV from source code, with custom configurations that

--- Strana 8 ---
are relevant to a few projects in this book. However, configuring and
customizing OpenCV is a large topic, and the configuration options
sometimes change between minor releases (such as OpenCV 5.1 versus
5.0), so advanced users may wish to refer to additional tutorials online.
One of the book’s authors, Joseph Howse, maintains a GitHub
repository of additional OpenCV build recipes at
https://github.com/JoeHowse/OpenCVBuildKit .

--- Strana 9 ---
Technical requirements
This chapter assumes that you are using one of the following operating
systems:
Windows 10 or a later version
macOS 10.15 (Catalina) or a later version
Debian 10 (Buster) or a later version, or a derivative such as the
following:
Ubuntu 18.04 (Bionic Beaver) or a later version
Linux Mint 19 or a later version
Arch Linux, or a derivative such as Manjaro
For editing Python scripts and other text files, this book's authors simply
recommend that you should have a good text editor. Visual Studio ( VS )
Code is the most suitable editor because of its simplicity and almost all OS
distributions support this editor. Other examples include the following:
Notepad++ for Windows
BBEdit (free version) for macOS
GEdit for the GNOME desktop environment on Linux
Kate for the KDE Plasma desktop environment on Linux
We also recommend that you have a Git client installed since this will be
the easiest way to obtain the book’s latest sample code, which is hosted on
GitHub.
Besides the operating system, there are no other prerequisites for this setup
chapter.

--- Strana 10 ---
What's new in OpenCV 5
If you are an OpenCV veteran, you might want to know more about
OpenCV 5's changes before you decide to install it. Here are some of the
highlights:
The C++ implementation of OpenCV has been updated to C++14.
OpenCV's Python bindings wrap the C++ implementation, so as
Python users, we may gain some performance advantages from this
update, even though we are not using C++ directly.
Support for Python 2 has been dropped because this Python version is
obsolete and no longer maintained. If you have any old Python 2
projects, you should upgrade them to Python 3.
For many algorithms, support for named parameters has been added in
order to make the initialization code more concise and readable.
For the pip package installer, the opencv-python and opencv-
contrib-python packages are now maintained by the core OpenCV
team rather than a third party. The opencv-contrib-python-nonfree
package has been discontinued due to patent restrictions.
The SIFT algorithm’s patent has expired and SIFT is now included in
standard builds of OpenCV.
Many new optimizations have been implemented. Existing OpenCV 4
projects can take advantage of many of these optimizations without
further changes beyond updating the OpenCV version.
OpenCV's DNN module, in particular, is better optimized. Also, the
loading and caching of DNN models are better automated.
Support for RISC-V processors has been added.
A new module has been added for 3D tracking and navigation. This
module includes some new functionality, as well as old functionality
that was previously located in opencv_contrib .
Likewise, a new module has been added for 2D tracking, including
some functionality that was previously located in opencv_contrib .
Whether or not you have used a previous version of OpenCV, this book will
serve as a general guide to OpenCV 5, and some of the new features will

--- Strana 11 ---
receive special attention in subsequent chapters.

--- Strana 12 ---
Optimizing OpenCV for specific
hardware
Generally, the setup instructions in this chapter are compatible with any
hardware architecture that is supported by OpenCV and the operating
system. For example, the setup instructions that target Linux operating
systems will work equally well on x64, x86, ARM, or RISC-V hardware
(except that the optional OpenNI package is unavailable for RISC-V).
That said, OpenCV supports many optional optimizations for specific
hardware. By following the instructions in this chapter, you will get an
OpenCV installation that uses a default set of optimizations for your
hardware. The defaults are generally good, but for some applications, you
could get even better performance with a more highly customized
installation of OpenCV. Here are a few examples of use cases:
For x64, x86, or ARM processors, OpenCV can optionally integrate
with Intel Thread Building Blocks (TBB), a multithreading library.
OpenCV can use TBB to speed up certain parallel algorithms, notably
the Haar cascade classifiers that we will study in Chapter 5 , Detecting
and Recognizing Faces .
For NVIDIA graphics processors, OpenCV can optionally integrate
with CUDA, another multiprocessing library. OpenCV can use CUDA
to speed up various deep learning algorithms, as well as any kind of
operation on very large blocks of data, such as very large images.
For AMD graphics processors, OpenCV can optionally integrate with
clBLAS and clFFT. These AMD libraries provide fine-tuned versions
of certain OpenCL operations. OpenCL is another multiprocessing
framework. Already, by default, OpenCV enables OpenCL
optimizations on any compatible hardware, yet clBLAS and clFFT
may make these optimizations perform even better on AMD hardware.
Specifically, OpenCV can use clBLAS and clFFT to speed up two
kinds of operations that are relevant to many signal processing
applications: General Matrix Multiply ( GEMM ) and Fast Fourier

--- Strana 13 ---
Transform ( FFT ). For example, GEMM is the fundamental
operation in the Kalman filter, which we will use for motion
stabilization in Chapter 8 , Tracking Objects , and Chapter 9 , Camera
Models and Augmented Reality .
For examples of how to enable specific optimizations, see Joseph
Howse’s repository of OpenCV build recipes at
https://github.com/JoeHowse/OpenCVBuildKit .
For now, let’s proceed using default optimizations, which are fine for the
purpose of running this book’s sample projects on a wide range of
hardware. However, bear in mind that many other optimization options are
available to you for your future projects, where you may have specific
performance requirements on specific hardware.

--- Strana 14 ---
Choosing and using the right setup
tools
We are free to choose various setup tools depending on our operating
system and how much configuration we want to do.
Regardless of the choice of operating system, Python offers some built-in
tools that are useful for setting up a development environment. These tools
include a package manager called pip and a virtual environment manager
called venv . Some of this chapter's instructions will cover pip specifically,
but if you would like to learn about venv , please refer to the official
Python documentation at https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html .
You should consider using venv if you plan to maintain a variety of
Python projects that might have conflicting dependencies – for
example, projects that depend on different versions of OpenCV. Each
of venv 's virtual environments has its own set of installed libraries,
and we can switch between these environments without reinstalling
anything. Within a given virtual environment, libraries can be installed
using pip or, in some cases, other tools.
Let's take an overview of the setup tools available for Windows, macOS,
Ubuntu, Arch Linux, and other Unix-like systems.
Installation on Windows
Windows does not come with Python preinstalled. However, an installation
wizard is available for Python, and Python provides a package manager
called pip , which lets us easily install ready-made builds of NumPy,
SciPy, and OpenCV. Alternatively, we can build OpenCV from source in
order to enable nonstandard features, such as support for depth cameras via
OpenNI 2 or support for patented algorithms. OpenCV's build system uses
CMake for configuring the system and Visual Studio for compilation.

--- Strana 15 ---
Before anything else, let's install Python. Go to
https://www.python.org/getit/ and download and run the most recent
installer for Python 3.10. You probably want an installer for 64-bit Python,
though OpenCV can work with 32-bit Python too.
Once Python has been installed, we can use pip to install NumPy and
SciPy. Open the Command Prompt and run the following command:
Now, we must decide whether we want a ready-made build of OpenCV
(without support for depth cameras) or a custom build (with support for
depth cameras). The next two subsections cover these alternatives.
Using a ready-made OpenCV package
OpenCV, including the opencv_contrib modules, can be installed as a pip
package. This is as simple as running the following command:
You might find that this pip package offers all the OpenCV features you
currently want. On the other hand, if you intend to use depth cameras or
patented algorithms, or if you just want to learn about the general process of
making a custom build of OpenCV, you should not install the OpenCV pip
package; you should proceed to the next subsection instead.
Building OpenCV from source
If you want support for depth cameras, you should also install OpenNI 2,
which is available as a set of precompiled binaries with an installation
wizard. Then, we must build OpenCV from source using CMake and Visual
Studio.
To obtain OpenNI 2, go to https://structure.io/openni and download the
latest ZIP for Windows and your system's architecture (x64 or x86). Unzip
it to get an installer file, such as OpenNI-Windows-x64-2.2.msi . Run the
installer. After the installation is complete, log out and log back in (or,
alternatively, reboot) so that changes to the environment variables can take
effect.

--- Strana 16 ---
Now, let's set up Visual Studio. To build OpenCV 5, we need Visual Studio
2017 or a later version. If you do not already have a suitable version, go to
https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/ and download and run one of
the installers for one of the following:
The free Visual Studio 2022 Community edition
Any of the paid Visual Studio 2022 editions, which have a 30-day trial
period
During installation, ensure that any optional C++ components have been
selected. After the installation finishes, reboot.
For OpenCV 5, the build configuration process requires CMake 3 or a later
version. Go to https://cmake.org/download/ , download the installer for the
latest version of CMake for your architecture (x64 or x86), and run it.
During installation, select either Add CMake to the system PATH for all
users or Add CMake to the system PATH for the current user .
At this stage, we have set up the dependencies and build environment for
our custom build of OpenCV. Now, we need to obtain the OpenCV source
code and configure and build it. We can do this by following these steps:
1. Go to https://opencv.org/releases/ and get the latest OpenCV download
for Windows. It is a self-extracting ZIP. Run it and, when prompted,
enter any destination folder, which we will refer to as
<opencv_unzip_destination> . During extraction, a subfolder is
created at <opencv_unzip_destination>\opencv .
2. Go to https://github.com/opencv/opencv_contrib/releases and
download the latest ZIP of the opencv_contrib modules. Unzip this
file to any destination folder, which we will refer to as
<opencv_contrib_unzip_destination> .
3. Open the Command Prompt and run the following command to make
another folder where our build will go:
1. Change the directory to the build folder:
1. Now, we are ready to configure our build with CMake's command-line
interface. To understand all the options, we can read the code in

--- Strana 17 ---
<opencv_unzip_destination>\opencv\CMakeLists.txt . However,
for this book's purposes, we only need to use the options that will give
us a release build with Python bindings, opencv_contrib modules,
non-free content, and depth camera support via OpenNI 2. Some
options differ slightly, depending on the Visual Studio version and
target architecture (x64 or x86). To create a 64-bit (x64) solution for
Visual Studio 2022, run the following command (but replace
<opencv_contrib_unzip_destination> and
<opencv_unzip_destination> with the actual paths):
Alternatively, to create a 32-bit (x86) solution for Visual Studio 2022, run
the following command (but replace
<opencv_contrib_unzip_destination> and
<opencv_unzip_destination> with the actual paths):
As the preceding command runs, it prints information about dependencies
that are either found or missing. OpenCV has many optional dependencies,
so do not panic (yet) about missing dependencies. However, if the build
does not finish successfully, try installing the missing dependencies. (Many
are available as prebuilt binaries.) Then, repeat this step.
1. CMake will have generated a Visual Studio solution file in
<opencv_build_folder>/OpenCV.sln . Open it in Visual Studio.
Ensure that the Release configuration (not the Debug configuration) is
selected in the drop-down list in the toolbar near the top of the Visual
Studio window. (OpenCV's Python bindings will probably fail to build
in Debug configuration because most Python distributions do not
contain debug libraries.) Go to the BUILD menu and select Build
Solution . Watch the build messages in the Output pane at the bottom
of the window, and wait for the build to finish.
2. By this stage, OpenCV has been built, but it hasn't been installed at a
location where Python can find it. Before proceeding further, let's
ensure that our Python environment does not already contain a
conflicting build of OpenCV. Find and delete any OpenCV files in
Python's DLLs folder and site_packages folder. For example, these
files might match the following patterns: C:\Program
Files\Python310\DLLs\opencv_*.dll , C:\Program

--- Strana 18 ---
Files\Python310\Lib\site-packages\opencv , and C:\Program
Files\Python310\Lib\site-packages\cv2.pyd .
3. Finally, let's install our custom build of OpenCV. For a 64-bit build,
copy the following files into Python’s site_packages folder:
<build_folder>\lib\python3\Release\*.pyd
<build_folder>\bin\Release\*.dll
C:\Program Files\OpenNI2\Redist\OpenNI2.dll
C:\Program Files\OpenNI2\Redist\OpenNI2 : Copy the whole
folder so as to create a subfolder, site_packages\OpenNI2
4. Alternatively, for a 32-bit build, copy the following files into Python’s
site_packages folder:
<build_folder>\lib\python3\Release\*.pyd
<build_folder>\bin\Release\*.dll
C:\Program Files (x86)\OpenNI2\Redist\OpenNI2.dll
C:\Program Files (x86)\OpenNI2\Redist\OpenNI2 : Copy the
whole folder so as to create a subfolder, site_packages\OpenNI2
.
Now, we have completed the OpenCV build process on Windows, and we
have a custom build that is suitable for all of this book's Python projects.
In the future, if you want to update to a new version of the OpenCV
source code, repeat all the preceding steps, starting from downloading
OpenCV.
Installation on macOS
macOS comes with a preinstalled Python distribution that has been
customized by Apple for the system's internal needs. To develop our own
projects, we should make a separate Python installation to ensure that we do
not conflict with the system's Python needs.
For macOS, there are several possible approaches for obtaining standard
versions of Python 3, NumPy, SciPy, and OpenCV. All approaches
ultimately require OpenCV to be compiled from source using the Xcode
command-line tools. However, depending on the approach, this task is
automated for us in various ways by third-party tools. We will look at this

--- Strana 19 ---
kind of approach using a package manager called Homebrew. A package
manager can potentially do everything that CMake can, plus it helps us
resolve dependencies and separate our development libraries from system
libraries.
MacPorts is another popular package manager for macOS. However, at
the time of writing, MacPorts does not offer packages for OpenCV 5
or OpenNI 2, so we will not use it in this book.
Before proceeding, let's make sure that the Xcode command-line tools are
set up properly. Open a Terminal and run the following command:
Agree to the license agreement and any other prompts. The installation
should run to completion. Now, we have the compilers that Homebrew
requires.
Using Homebrew with ready-made packages
Starting on a system where Xcode and its command-line tools are already
set up, the following steps will give us an OpenCV installation via
Homebrew:
1. Open a Terminal and run the following command to install Homebrew:
1. Homebrew does not automatically put its executables in PATH . To do
so, create or edit the ~/.profile file and add the following line at the
top of the code:
Save the file and run this command to refresh PATH :
Note that executables installed by Homebrew now take precedence over
executables installed by the system.
1. For Homebrew's self-diagnostic report, run the following command:
Follow any troubleshooting advice it gives.
1. Now, update Homebrew:

--- Strana 20 ---
1. Run the following command to install Python 3.10:
1. Now, we want to install OpenCV with the opencv_contrib modules.
At the same time, we want to install dependencies such as NumPy. To
accomplish this, run the following command:
Homebrew does not provide an option to install OpenCV with OpenNI
2 support. Homebrew always installs OpenCV with the
opencv_contrib modules, including non-free content such as the
patented SURF algorithm, which we will cover in Chapter 6 ,
Retrieving Images and Searching Using Image Descriptors . If you
intend to distribute software that depends on OpenCV's non-free
content, you should do your own investigation of how the patent and
licensing issues might apply in specific countries and to specific use
cases.
1. Similarly, run the following command to install SciPy:
Now, we have all we need to develop OpenCV projects with Python on
macOS.
Using Homebrew with your own custom packages
Just in case you ever need to customize a package, Homebrew makes it
easy to edit existing package definitions:
The package definitions are actually scripts in the Ruby programming
language. Tips on editing them can be found on the Homebrew wiki page at
https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/master/docs/Formula-
Cookbook.md . A script may specify Make or CMake configuration flags,
among other things.
To see which CMake configuration flags are relevant to OpenCV, refer
to https://github.com/opencv/opencv/blob/master/CMakeLists.txt in
the official OpenCV repository on GitHub.
After making edits to the Ruby script, save it.

--- Strana 21 ---
The customized package can be treated as normal. For example, it can be
installed as follows:
Installation on Debian, Ubuntu, Linux Mint, and
similar systems
Debian, Ubuntu, Linux Mint, and related Linux distributions use the apt
package manager. On these systems, it is easy to install packages for Python
3 and many Python modules, including NumPy and SciPy. An OpenCV
package is also available via apt , but at the time of writing, this package
has not been updated to OpenCV 5. Instead, we can obtain OpenCV 5
(without support for depth cameras) from Python's standard package
manager, pip . Alternatively, we can build OpenCV 5 from source. When
built from source, OpenCV can support depth cameras via OpenNI 2, which
is available as a set of precompiled binaries with an installation script.
Regardless of our approach to obtaining OpenCV, let's begin by updating
apt so that we can obtain the latest packages. Open a Terminal and run the
following command:
Having updated apt , let's run the following command to install NumPy
and SciPy for Python 3:
Equivalently, we could have used the Ubuntu Software Center, which
is the apt package manager's graphical frontend.
Now, we must decide whether we want a ready-made build of OpenCV
(without support for depth cameras or patented algorithms) or a custom
build (with support for depth cameras and patented algorithms). The next
two subsections cover these alternatives.
Using a ready-made OpenCV package
OpenCV, including the opencv_contrib modules, can be installed as a pip
package. This is as simple as running the following command:

--- Strana 22 ---
You might find that this pip package offers all the OpenCV features you
currently want. On the other hand, if you intend to use depth cameras or
patented algorithms, or if you just want to learn about the general process of
making a custom build of OpenCV, you should not install the OpenCV pip
package; you should proceed to the next subsection instead.
Building OpenCV from source
To build OpenCV from source, we need a C++ build environment and the
CMake build configuration system. Specifically, we need CMake 3. Run the
following commands to ensure that the necessary versions of CMake and
other build tools are installed:
As part of the build process for OpenCV, CMake will need to access the
internet to download additional dependencies. If your system uses a proxy
server, ensure that your environment variables for the proxy server have
been configured properly. Specifically, CMake relies on the http_proxy
and https_proxy environment variables. To define them, you can edit your
~/.bash_profile script and add lines such as the following (but modify
them so that they match your own proxy URLs and port numbers):
If you are unsure whether your system uses a proxy server, it probably
doesn't, so you can ignore this step.
To build OpenCV's Python bindings, we need an installation of the Python
3 development headers. To install them, run the following command:
To capture frames from typical USB webcams, OpenCV depends on Video
for Linux ( V4L ). On most systems, V4L comes preinstalled, but just in
case it is missing, run the following command:
As we mentioned previously, to support depth cameras, OpenCV depends
on OpenNI 2. Go to https://structure.io/openni and download the latest ZIP
of OpenNI 2 for Linux and your system's architecture (x64, x86, or ARM).
Unzip it to any destination, which we will refer to as
<openni2_unzip_destination> . Run the following commands:

--- Strana 23 ---
The preceding installation script configures the system so that it supports
depth cameras as USB devices.
Now that we have the build environment and dependencies installed, we
can obtain and build the OpenCV source code. To do so, follow these steps:
1. Go to https://opencv.org/releases/ and download the latest source
package. Unzip it to any destination folder, which we will refer to as
<opencv_unzip_destination> .
2. Go to https://github.com/opencv/opencv_contrib/releases and
download the latest source package for the opencv_contrib modules.
Unzip it to any destination folder, which we will refer to as
<opencv_contrib_unzip_destination> .
3. Open a Terminal. Run the following commands to create a directory
where we will put our OpenCV build:
1. Change into the newly created directory:
1. Run the following commands to define temporary environment
variables that will help CMake locate the OpenNI 2 headers and
binaries:
1. Now, we can use CMake to generate a build configuration for
OpenCV. The output of this configuration process will be a set of
Makefiles, which are scripts we can use to build and install OpenCV. A
complete set of CMake configuration options for OpenCV is defined in
the <opencv_unzip_destination>/opencv/sources/CMakeLists.txt
file. For our purposes, we care about the options that relate to OpenNI
2 support, Python bindings, opencv_contrib modules, and non-free
content. Configure OpenCV by running the following command:
1. Finally, run the following commands to interpret our newly generated
Makefiles, and thereby build and install OpenCV:
So far, we have completed the OpenCV build process on Debian, Ubuntu,
or a similar system, and we have a custom build that is suitable for all of
this book's Python projects.

--- Strana 24 ---
Installation on Arch Linux, Manjaro, and similar
systems
Arch Linux, Manjaro, and related Linux distributions use the pacman
package manager. On these systems, it is easy to install packages for Python
3 and many Python modules, including NumPy and SciPy. An OpenCV
package is also available via pacman , and it is up-to-date with OpenCV 5.
As an alternative to using the pacman OpenCV package, we can build
OpenCV 5 from source. When built from source, OpenCV can support
depth cameras via OpenNI 2, which is available as a set of precompiled
binaries with an installation script.
Regardless of our approach to obtaining OpenCV, let's begin by updating
pacman and the whole system. Open a Terminal and run the following
command:
Having updated the system, let's run the following command to install
NumPy and SciPy for Python 3:
Equivalently, on Manjaro, we could have used Pamac (also known as
Add/Remove Software), which is a package manager with a graphical
frontend.
Now, we must decide whether we want a ready-made build of OpenCV
(without support for depth cameras or patented algorithms) or a custom
build (with support for depth cameras and patented algorithms). The next
two subsections cover these alternatives.
Using a ready-made OpenCV package
OpenCV, including the opencv_contrib modules, can be installed as a
pacman package. This is as simple as running the following command:
You might find that this pip package offers all the OpenCV features you
currently want. On the other hand, if you intend to use depth cameras or
patented algorithms, or if you just want to learn about the general process of

--- Strana 25 ---
making a custom build of OpenCV, you should not install the OpenCV
pacman package; you should proceed to the next subsection instead.
Building OpenCV from source
To build OpenCV from source, we need a C++ build environment and the
CMake build configuration system. Specifically, we need CMake 3. Run the
following commands to ensure that the necessary versions of CMake and
other build tools are installed:
As part of the build process for OpenCV, CMake will need to access the
internet to download additional dependencies. If your system uses a proxy
server, ensure that your environment variables for the proxy server have
been configured properly. Specifically, CMake relies on the http_proxy
and https_proxy environment variables. To define them, you can edit your
~/.bash_profile script and add lines such as the following (but modify
them so that they match your own proxy URLs and port numbers):
If you are unsure whether your system uses a proxy server, it probably
doesn't, so you can ignore this step.
To capture frames from typical USB webcams, OpenCV depends on Video
for Linux ( V4L ). On most systems, V4L comes preinstalled, but just in
case it is missing, run the following command:
As we mentioned previously, to support depth cameras, OpenCV depends
on OpenNI 2. Go to https://structure.io/openni and download the latest ZIP
of OpenNI 2 for Linux and your system's architecture (x64, x86, or ARM).
Unzip it to any destination, which we will refer to as
<openni2_unzip_destination> . Run the following commands:
The preceding installation script configures the system so that it supports
depth cameras as USB devices.
Now that we have the build environment and dependencies installed, we
can obtain and build the OpenCV source code. To do so, follow these steps:

--- Strana 26 ---
1. Go to https://opencv.org/releases/ and download the latest source
package. Unzip it to any destination folder, which we will refer to as
<opencv_unzip_destination> .
2. Go to https://github.com/opencv/opencv_contrib/releases and
download the latest source package for the opencv_contrib modules.
Unzip it to any destination folder, which we will refer to as
<opencv_contrib_unzip_destination> .
3. Open a Terminal. Run the following commands to create a directory
where we will put our OpenCV build:
1. Change into the newly created directory:
1. Run the following commands to define temporary environment
variables that will help CMake locate the OpenNI 2 headers and
binaries:
1. Now, we can use CMake to generate a build configuration for
OpenCV. The output of this configuration process will be a set of
Makefiles, which are scripts we can use to build and install OpenCV. A
complete set of CMake configuration options for OpenCV is defined in
the <opencv_unzip_destination>/opencv/sources/CMakeLists.txt
file. For our purposes, we care about the options that relate to OpenNI
2 support, Python bindings, opencv_contrib modules, and non-free
content. Configure OpenCV by running the following command:
1. Now, run the following commands to interpret our newly generated
Makefiles, and thereby build and install OpenCV:
1. A final step is necessary because OpenCV’s installer uses a different
Python site_modules path than the standard one for Arch Linux or
Manjaro. To resolve this difference, create a link as follows:
At this point, we have completed the OpenCV build process on Arch Linux,
Manjaro, or a similar system, and we have a custom build that is suitable
for all of this book's Python projects.
Installation on other Unix-like systems

--- Strana 27 ---
On other Unix-like systems, the package manager and available packages
may differ. Consult your package manager's documentation and search for
packages with opencv in their names. Remember that OpenCV and its
Python bindings might be split into multiple packages.
Also, look for any installation notes that have been published by the system
provider, the repository maintainer, or the community. Since OpenCV uses
camera drivers and media codecs, getting all of its functionality to work can
be tricky on systems with poor multimedia support. Under some
circumstances, system packages might need to be reconfigured or
reinstalled for compatibility.
If packages are available for OpenCV, check their version number. OpenCV
5 is recommended for this book's purposes. Also, check whether the
packages offer Python bindings, depth camera support via OpenNI 2, and
implementations of the non-free algorithms. Finally, check whether anyone
in the developer community has reported success or failure when using the
packages.
If, instead, you want to do a custom build of OpenCV from source, it might
be helpful to refer to the previous sections’ steps for Debian or Arch Linux
and adapt these steps to the package manager and packages that are present
on another system.

--- Strana 28 ---
Running the official sample code
Running a few sample scripts is a good way to test whether OpenCV has
been set up correctly. Some samples are included in OpenCV's source code
archive. If you have not already obtained the source code, go to
https://opencv.org/releases/ and download one of the following archives:
For Windows, download the latest archive, labeled Windows . It is a
self-extracting ZIP. Run it and, when prompted, enter any destination
folder, which we will refer to as <opencv_unzip_destination> . Find
the Python samples in
<opencv_unzip_destination>/opencv/sources/samples/python .
For other systems, download the latest archive, labeled Sources . It is a
ZIP file. Unzip it to any destination folder, which we will refer to as
<opencv_unzip_destination> . Find the Python samples in
<opencv_unzip_destination>/samples/python .
Some of the sample scripts require command-line arguments. However, the
following scripts (among others) should work without any arguments:
hist.py : This script displays a photo. Press A , B , C , D , or E to see
variations of the photo, along with a corresponding histogram of color
or grayscale values.
opt_flow.py : This script displays a webcam feed with a
superimposed visualization of the optical flow or, in other words, the
direction of motion. Slowly wave your hand at the webcam to see the
effect. Press 1 or 2 for alternative visualizations.
To exit a script, press Esc (not the window’s close button).
If we encounter the ImportError: No module named cv2 message, then
this means that we are running the script from a Python installation that
does not know anything about OpenCV. There are two possible
explanations for this:

--- Strana 29 ---
Some steps in the OpenCV installation might have failed or been
missed. Go back and review the steps.
If we have multiple Python installations on the machine, we might be
using the wrong version of Python to launch the script. For example,
on macOS, it might be the case that OpenCV has been installed for
Homebrew Python, but we are running the script with the system's
version of Python. Go back and review the installation steps about
editing the system's PATH variable. Also, try launching the script
manually from the command line using commands such as the
following:
You can also try the following command:
As another possible means of selecting a different Python installation, try
editing the sample script to remove the #! lines. These lines might
explicitly associate the script with the wrong Python installation (for our
particular setup).

--- Strana 30 ---
Finding documentation, help, and
updates
OpenCV's documentation can be found at http://docs.opencv.org/ , where
you can either read it online or download it for offline reading. If you write
code on airplanes or other places without internet access, you will definitely
want to keep offline copies of the documentation.
The documentation includes a combined API reference for OpenCV's C++
API and its Python API. When you look up a class or function, be sure to
read the section under the heading Python .
OpenCV's Python module is named cv2 . The 2 in cv2 has nothing to
do with the version number of OpenCV; we really are using OpenCV
5. Historically, OpenCV had a cv Python module that wrapped a now-
obsolete C version of the library. The cv module was removed in
OpenCV 4.
Still, in the official OpenCV 5 samples and in some other authors’
samples, you might see valid Python code such as the following,
which imports the cv2 module and gives it a local alias, cv :
Here, there is nothing special about the alias cv ; countless other
aliases would also be valid, and the choosing of an alias will have no
effect on the module’s version or functionality. For example, the alias
george_eliot_42 would be valid, though not sensible:
You might even observe that the OpenCV 5 documentation follows an
unstated convention of using cv as an alias for cv2 . Despite all of
this, remember that in OpenCV 5, the Python module’s real name is
cv2 .
If the documentation does not seem to answer your questions, try talking to
the OpenCV community. Here are some sites where you will find helpful

--- Strana 31 ---
people:
The OpenCV forum: https://forum.opencv.org/
Adrian Rosebrock's website: https://www.pyimagesearch.com/
Joseph Howse's website for his books and presentations:
https://nummist.com/opencv/
Lastly, if you are an advanced user who wants to try new features, bug
fixes, and sample scripts from the latest (unstable) OpenCV source code,
have a look at the project's repository at https://github.com/opencv/opencv/
.

--- Strana 32 ---
Finding this book’s sample code
We will walk through a set of relevant code samples in each chapter of this
book. For now, let’s just take note of the samples’ location and format.
All of this book’s samples can be found online in the Git repository at
https://github.com/PacktPublishing/Learning-OpenCV-5-Computer-Vision-
with-Python-Fourth-Edition/ . The contents are organized into various
folders by chapter. For some chapters, an interactively editable version of
the code is provided as a Juptyer notebook. For example, Chapter 5 has a
Jupyter notebook located in the repository at chapter05/chapter05.ipynb
.
If you are new to Git or want to expand your Git skills, take a look at
the free ebook Pro Git , by Scott Chacon and Ben Straub. You can find
it online at https://git-scm.com/book/ . The book’s second chapter, Git
Basics , is especially helpful for beginners.
Typically, when you start studying a chapter, you might want to pull down
the latest code from GitHub, just in case the authors have made any recent
corrections or updates. Also, if the chapter has a Jupyter notebook, you
might want to open it online via the Google Colab website, which enables
you to experiment with your own modifications to the code in a readymade
environment, without the need to set up or save anything on your local
machine. Where applicable, the chapter’s Technical requirements section
will specify a Google Colab URL where you can open the chapter’s Jupyter
notebook. For example, for Chapter 5, the relevant Google Colab URL is
https://colab.research.google.com/github/PacktPublishing/Learning-
OpenCV-5-Computer-Vision-with-Python-Fourth-
Edition/blob/main/chapter05/chapter05.ipynb .
Advanced readers might want to experiment with some of the book’s
sample code right away. Otherwise, the rest of this book will be your guide!

--- Strana 33 ---
Summary
By now, we should have an OpenCV installation that will serve our needs
for the diverse projects described in this book. Depending on which
approach we took, we may also have a set of tools and scripts that can be
used to reconfigure and rebuild OpenCV for our future needs.
We also know where to find this book’s sample code and OpenCV's official
Python samples. The official samples cover a different range of
functionalities outside this book's scope, but they are useful as additional
learning aids.
In the next chapter, we will familiarize ourselves with the most basic
functions of the OpenCV API, namely displaying images and videos,
capturing videos through a webcam, and handling basic keyboard and
mouse inputs.

--- Strana 34 ---
Join our book community on
Discord
https://discord.gg/djGjeMECxw
Installing OpenCV and running samples is fun, but at this stage, we want to
try things out in our own way. This chapter introduces OpenCV's I/O
functionality. We also discuss the concept of a project and the beginnings of
an object-oriented design for this project, which we will flesh out in
subsequent chapters.
By starting with a look at I/O capabilities and design patterns, we will build
our project in the same way we would make a sandwich: from the outside
in. Bread slices and spread, or endpoints and glue, come before fillings or
algorithms. We choose this approach because computer vision is mostly
extroverted, it contemplates the real world outside our computer, and we
want to apply all of our subsequent algorithmic work to the real world
through a common interface.
Specifically, in this chapter, our code samples and discussions will cover the
following tasks:
Reading images from image files, video files, camera devices, or raw
bytes of data in memory

--- Strana 35 ---
Writing images to image files or video files
Manipulating image data in NumPy arrays
Converting between NumPy arrays and OpenCV’s UMat format, which
supports OpenCL acceleration
Enabling hardware acceleration of video I/O
Sending a video stream over a network
Displaying images in windows
Handling keyboard and mouse input
Implementing an application with an object-oriented design

--- Strana 36 ---
Technical requirements
This chapter uses Python, OpenCV, and NumPy. Please refer back to
Chapter 1 , Setting Up OpenCV , for installation instructions.
The complete code for this chapter can be found in this book's GitHub
repository, https://github.com/PacktPublishing/Learning-OpenCV-5-
Computer-Vision-with-Python-Fourth-Edition , in the Chapter02 folder.

--- Strana 37 ---
Basic I/O scripts
Most CV applications need to get images as input. Most also produce images as
output. An interactive CV application might require a camera as an input source
and a window as an output destination. However, other possible sources and
destinations include image files, video files, and raw bytes. For example, raw
bytes might be transmitted via a network connection, or they might be generated
by an algorithm, if we incorporate procedural graphics into our application. Let's
look at each of these possibilities.
Reading/writing an image file
OpenCV provides the imread function to load an image from a file and the
imwrite function to write an image to a file. These functions support various file
formats for still images (not videos). The supported formats vary—as formats can
be added or removed in a custom build of OpenCV—but normally BMP, PNG,
JPEG, and TIFF are among the supported formats.
Let's explore the anatomy of the representation of an image in OpenCV and
NumPy. An image is a multidimensional array; it has columns and rows of pixels,
and each pixel has a value. For different kinds of image data, the pixel value may
be formatted in different ways. For example, we can create a 3x3 square black
image from scratch by simply creating a 2D NumPy array:
If we print this image to a console, we obtain the following result:
Here, each pixel is represented by a single 8-bit integer, which means that the
values for each pixel are in the 0-255 range, where 0 is black, 255 is white, and
the in-between values are shades of gray. This is a grayscale image.
Let's now convert this image into blue-green-red (BGR) format using the
cv2.cvtColor function:
Let's observe how the image has changed:
As you can see, each pixel is now represented by a three-element array, with each
integer representing one of the three color channels: B, G, and R, respectively.
Other common color models, such as hue-saturation-value (HSV) , will be

--- Strana 38 ---
represented in the same way, albeit with different value ranges. For example, the
hue value of the HSV color model has a range of 0-180.
For more information about color models, refer to Chapter 3 , Processing
Images with OpenCV , specifically the Converting between different color
models section .
You can check the structure of an image by inspecting the shape property, which
returns rows, columns, and the number of channels (if there is more than one).
Consider this example:
The preceding code will print (5, 3) ; in other words, we have a grayscale
image with 5 rows and 3 columns. If you then converted the image into BGR,
the shape would be (5, 3, 3) , which indicates the presence of three channels
per pixel.
Images can be loaded from one file format and saved to another. For example,
let's convert an image from PNG into JPEG:
OpenCV's Python module is called cv2 even though we are using OpenCV
5.x and not OpenCV 2.x. Historically, OpenCV had two Python modules:
cv2 and cv . The latter wrapped a legacy version of OpenCV implemented
in C. Nowadays, OpenCV has only the cv2 Python module, which wraps the
current version of OpenCV implemented in C++.
If imread fails to read the specified image file (for example, if the file does not
exist or does not match any supported image file format), then imread returns
None ; otherwise, it returns the image as a NumPy array. If imwrite fails to write
the specified image file, imwrite returns False ; otherwise, it returns True .
By default, imread returns an image in the BGR color format even if the file uses
a grayscale format. BGR represents the same color model as the widely-used red-
green-blue (RGB) , but the byte order is reversed. If you are using OpenCV
functions for all your I/O needs, you do not need to worry about byte order
differences (OpenCV will handle these internally for you), but bear in mind that
other file I/O libraries or GUI libraries may expect image data to be in RGB order
instead of BGR. Then, to reverse the byte order, you can use cv2.cvtColor with
the cv2.COLOR_BGR2RGB flag or the cv2.COLOR_RGB2BGR flag.

--- Strana 39 ---
Optionally, we may specify the mode of imread . The supported options include
the following:
cv2.IMREAD_COLOR : This is the default option, providing a 3-channel BGR
image with an 8-bit value (0-255) for each channel.
cv2.IMREAD_GRAYSCALE : This provides an 8-bit grayscale image.
cv2.IMREAD_ANYCOLOR : This provides either an 8-bit-per-channel BGR
image or an 8-bit grayscale image, depending on the metadata in the file.
cv2.IMREAD_UNCHANGED : This reads all of the image data, including the
alpha or transparency channel (if there is one) as a fourth channel.
cv2.IMREAD_ANYDEPTH : This loads an image in grayscale at its original bit
depth. For example, it provides a 16-bit-per-channel grayscale image if the
file represents an image in this format.
cv2.IMREAD_ANYDEPTH | cv2.IMREAD_COLOR : This combination loads an
image in BGR color at its original bit depth.
cv2.IMREAD_REDUCED_GRAYSCALE_2 : This loads an image in grayscale at
half its original resolution. For example, if the file contains a 640 x 480
image, it is loaded as a 320 x 240 image.
cv2.IMREAD_REDUCED_COLOR_2 : This loads an image in 8-bit-per-channel
BGR color at half its original resolution.
cv2.IMREAD_REDUCED_GRAYSCALE_4 : This loads an image in grayscale at
one-quarter of its original resolution.
cv2.IMREAD_REDUCED_COLOR_4 : This loads an image in 8-bit-per-channel
color at one-quarter of its original resolution.
cv2.IMREAD_REDUCED_GRAYSCALE_8 : This loads an image in grayscale at
one-eighth of its original resolution.
cv2.IMREAD_REDUCED_COLOR_8 : This loads an image in 8-bit-per-channel
color at one-eighth of its original resolution.
As an example, let's load a PNG file as a grayscale image (losing any color
information in the process), and then save it as a grayscale PNG image:
The path of an image, unless absolute, is relative to the working directory (which
is usually the path from which the Python script is run), so, in the preceding
example, MyPic.png would have to be in the working directory or the image
would not be found. If you prefer to avoid assumptions about the working
directory, you can use absolute paths, such as
"C:\\Users\\Joe\\Pictures\\MyPic.png" on Windows,
"/Users/Joe/Pictures/MyPic.png" on Mac, or
"/home/joe/pictures/MyPic.png" on Linux.

--- Strana 40 ---
The imwrite function requires an image to be in the BGR or grayscale format
with a certain number of bits per channel that the output format can support. For
example, the BMP file format requires 8 bits per channel, while PNG allows
either 8 or 16 bits per channel.
Some image file formats, notably multipage TIFF , can contain multiple images
in one file. OpenCV can work with these kinds of files via the imreadmulti and
imwritemulti functions, as seen in the following example:
Here, note that grayImages is a tuple of NumPy arrays; each element in the tuple
represents a single image.
Converting between an image and raw bytes
Conceptually, a byte is an integer ranging from 0 to 255. Throughout real-time
graphic applications today, a pixel is typically represented by one byte per
channel, though other representations are also possible.
An OpenCV image is a 2D or 3D array of the numpy.array type. An 8-bit
grayscale image is a 2D array containing byte values. A 24-bit BGR image is a
3D array, which also contains byte values. We may access these values by using
an expression such as image[0, 0] or image[0, 0, 0] . The first index is the
pixel's y coordinate or row, 0 being the top. The second index is the pixel's x
coordinate or column, 0 being the leftmost. The third index (if applicable)
represents a color channel. The array's three dimensions can be visualized in the
following Cartesian coordinate system:

--- Strana 41 ---
Figure 2.1: The dimensions of an image as a NumPy array
For example, in an 8-bit grayscale image with a white pixel in the upper-left
corner, image[0, 0] is 255 . For a 24-bit (8-bit-per-channel) BGR image with a
blue pixel in the upper-left corner, image[0, 0] is [255, 0, 0] .

--- Strana 42 ---
Provided that an image has 8 bits per channel, we can cast it to a standard Python
bytearray object, which is one-dimensional:
Conversely, provided that bytearray contains bytes in an appropriate order, we
can cast and then reshape it to get a numpy.array type that is an image:
As a more complete example, let's convert a bytearray that contains random
bytes into a grayscale image and a BGR image:
Here, we use Python's standard os.urandom function to generate random
raw bytes, which we then convert into a NumPy array. Note that it is also
possible to generate a random NumPy array directly (and more efficiently)
using a statement such as numpy.random.randint(0, 256,
120000).reshape(300, 400) . The only reason we use os.urandom is to
help to demonstrate conversion from raw bytes.
After running this script, we should have a pair of randomly generated images,
RandomGray.png and RandomColor.png , in the script's directory.
Here is an example of RandomGray.png (though yours will almost certainly differ
since it is random):
Figure 2.2a: The result of interpreting 120,000 random bytes as a
400x300 grayscale image
Similarly, here is an example of RandomColor.png :

--- Strana 43 ---
Figure 2.2b: The result of interpreting the same 120,000 random bytes
as a 400x100 BGR color image
Now that we have a better understanding of how an image is formed from data,
we can start performing basic operations on it.
Accessing image data with numpy.array
We already know that the easiest (and most common) way to load an image in
OpenCV is to use the imread function. We also know that this will return an
image, which is really an array (either a 2D or 3D one, depending on the
parameters you passed to imread ).
The numpy.array class is greatly optimized for array operations, and it allows
certain kinds of bulk manipulations that are not available in a plain Python list.
These kinds of numpy.array type-specific operations come in handy for image
manipulations in OpenCV. However, let's explore image manipulations step by
step, starting with a basic example. Say you want to manipulate a pixel at
coordinates (0, 0) in a BGR image and turn it into a white pixel:
If you then save the modified image to file and view it, you will see a white dot in
the top-left corner of the image. Naturally, this modification is not very useful,
but it begins to show the possibilities. Now, let's leverage the capabilities of
numpy.array to perform transformations on an array much faster than we could
do with a plain Python list.
Let's say that you want to change the blue value of a particular pixel, say, the
pixel at coordinates, (150, 120). The numpy.array type provides a handy method,
item , which takes three parameters: the x (or left) position, the y (or top)
position, and the index within the array at the ( x , y ) position (remember that in a
BGR image, the data at a certain position is a three-element array containing the
B, G, and R values in this order) and returns the value at the index position.
Another method, itemset , sets the value of a particular channel of a particular
pixel to a specified value. itemset takes two arguments: a three-element tuple ( x
, y , and index) and the new value.

--- Strana 44 ---
In the following example, we change the value of the blue channel at (150, 120)
from its current value to an arbitrary 255 :
For modifying a single element in an array, the itemset method is somewhat
faster than the indexing syntax that we saw in the first example in this section.
Again, modifying an element of an array does not do much in itself, but it does
open a world of possibilities. However, for performance reasons, this is only
suitable for small regions of interest. When you need to manipulate an entire
image or a large region of interest, it is advisable that you utilize either OpenCV's
functions or NumPy's array slicing . The latter allows you to specify a range of
indices. Let's consider an example of using array slicing to manipulate color
channels. Setting all G (green) values of an image to 0 is as simple as the
following code:
This piece of code performs a fairly significant operation and is easy to
understand. The relevant line is the last one, which basically instructs the program
to take all pixels from all rows and columns and set the green value (at index one
of the three-element BGR array) to 0 . If you display this image, you will notice a
complete absence of green.
There are several interesting things we can do by accessing raw pixels with
NumPy's array slicing; one of them is defining a region of interest ( ROI ). An
ROI is simply a selected rectangular subsection of an image; we may process or
modify this subsection without affecting the rest of the image. Once the region is
defined, we can perform a number of operations. For example, we can bind this
region to a variable, then define a second region, and finally assign the value of
the first region to the second (hence, copying a portion of the image over to
another position in the image):
It is important to make sure that the two regions correspond in terms of size. If
not, NumPy will (rightly) complain that the two shapes are mismatched.
Finally, we can access the properties of numpy.array , as shown in the following
code:
These three properties are defined as follows:
shape : This is a tuple describing the shape of the array. For an image, it
contains (in order) the height, width, and—if the image is in color—the
number of channels. The length of the shape tuple is a useful way to

--- Strana 45 ---
determine whether an image is grayscale or color. For a grayscale image, we
have len(shape) == 2 , and for a color image, len(shape) == 3 .
size : This is the number of elements in the array. In the case of a grayscale
image, this is the same as the number of pixels. In the case of a BGR image,
it is three times the number of pixels because each pixel is represented by
three elements (B, G, and R).
dtype : This is the datatype of the array's elements. For an 8-bit-per-channel
image, the datatype is numpy.uint8 .
All in all, it is strongly advised that you familiarize yourself with NumPy in
general, and numpy.array in particular, when working with OpenCV. This class
is the foundation of OpenCV’s Python interface.
Converting between numpy.array and cv2.UMat
A NumPy array keeps its data in main memory – never in GPU memory. This
means that OpenCV cannot apply its optional GPU optimizations to images that
are represented as NumPy arrays. If we want to allow OpenCV to move data into
GPU memory and apply GPU optimizations (where supported), then we can
convert a NumPy array to a different format called an OpenCV Universal
Matrix or cv2.UMat .
Currently, cv2.UMat supports GPU acceleration on systems that have
OpenCL-compliant GPU drivers, with a minimum version of OpenCL 1.2.
Most modern desktop or laptop GPUs, as well as some high-end smartphone
or tablet GPUs, have this level of OpenCL support.
The following code initializes a UMat by copying data from a NumPy array:
Most OpenCV functions will accept a UMat argument in place of NumPy array
and, then, will return a UMat instead of NumPy array. Here is an example:
NumPy functions will not accept a UMat argument, a UMat does not have the
same methods as a numpy.array , and we cannot perform slicing or other
Pythonic operations on UMat data. However, we can convert a UMat back to a
NumPy array, as follows:
You might wonder, should you start using UMat s everywhere in order to speed up
your applications? Probably not. Copying data into and out of GPU memory is an
expensive operation and, in many cases, this overhead cost outweighs the benefit

--- Strana 46 ---
of greater parallelism on the GPU. On the other hand, if you can minimize the
number of copies and if you can apply a series of OpenCV functions to a large
amount of data on the GPU, then the benefit may outweigh the cost.
Throughout this book, we will mainly use numpy.array instead of cv2.UMat ,
but bear in mind that you may want to test the performance of cv2.UMat as an
alternative for your own practical applications.
Reading/writing a video file
OpenCV provides the VideoCapture and VideoWriter classes, which support
various video file formats. The supported formats vary depending on the
operating system and the build configuration of OpenCV, but normally it is safe
to assume that the AVI format is supported. Via its read method, a VideoCapture
object may be polled for new frames until it reaches the end of its video file. Each
frame is an image in the BGR format.
Conversely, an image may be passed to the write method of the VideoWriter
class, which appends the image to a file in VideoWriter . Let's look at an
example that reads frames from one AVI file and writes them to another with a
YUV encoding:
The arguments to the constructor of the VideoWriter class deserve special
attention. A video's filename must be specified. Any preexisting file with this
name is overwritten. A video codec must also be specified. The available codecs
may vary from system to system. The supported options may include the
following:
0 : This option is an uncompressed raw video file. The file extension should
be .avi .
cv2.VideoWriter_fourcc('I','4','2','0') : This option is an
uncompressed YUV encoding, 4:2:0 chroma subsampled. This encoding is
widely compatible but produces large files. The file extension should be
.avi .
cv2.VideoWriter_fourcc('P','I','M','1') : This option is MPEG-1.
The file extension should be .avi .
cv2.VideoWriter_fourcc('X','V','I','D') : This option is a relatively
old MPEG-4 encoding. It is a good option if you want to limit the size of the
resulting video. The file extension should be .avi .

--- Strana 47 ---
cv2.VideoWriter_fourcc('M','P','4','V') : This option is another
relatively old MPEG-4 encoding. It is a good option if you want to limit the
size of the resulting video. The file extension should be .mp4 .
cv2.VideoWriter_fourcc('X','2','6','4') : This option is a relatively
new MPEG-4 encoding. It may be the best option if you want to limit the
size of the resulting video. The file extension should be .mp4 .
cv2.VideoWriter_fourcc('T','H','E','O') : This option is Ogg Vorbis .
The file extension should be .ogv .
A frame rate and frame size must be specified too. Since we are copying from
another video, these properties can be read from the get method of the
VideoCapture class.
Enabling hardware acceleration for video I/O
Often, modern GPUs are capable of accelerating the algorithms that decode (read)
and encode (write) some of the common video formats. By default, OpenCV’s
VideoCapture and VideoWriter classes do not attempt to use GPU acceleration;
they run the decoding and encoding algorithms on the CPU. However, starting in
OpenCV 4.5.2 and continuing in OpenCV 5, the support for GPU-accelerated
encoding/decoding has been improving. If we modify our video I/O example in
the ways highlighted below, OpenCV will try to use GPU acceleration on
supported systems:
Here, the parameters cv2.CAP_ANY, [cv2.CAP_PROP_HW_ACCELERATION,
cv2.VIDEO_ACCELERATION_ANY] tell the VideoCapture instance to use any
available capture back-end with any available acceleration back-end. Similarly,
the parameter [cv2.VIDEOWRITER_PROP_HW_ACCELERATION,
cv2.VIDEO_ACCELERATION_ANY] tells the the VideoWriter instance to use any
available acceleration back-end.
Currently, Windows is the best-supported platform, in terms of OpenCV’s use of
GPU-accelerated encoding/decoding. Some Linux configurations are also
supported. Broader support may be available in future releases of OpenCV 5.x.
On systems where OpenCV does not support GPU-accelerated
encoding/decoding, it should fall back safely to CPU encoding/decoding. Note
that the support for GPU acceleration may vary according to the video format, as
well as the operating system and hardware.

--- Strana 48 ---
For more information on the ongoing efforts to support GPU-accelerated
encoding/decoding, see the OpenCV Wiki article at
https://github.com/opencv/opencv/wiki/Video-IO-hardware-acceleration .
Bear in mind, there is no guarantee that enabling hardware acceleration will
actually speed up your application; in some cases, the opposite could be true.
Typically, high-resolution videos might be a better use case for hardware
acceleration than low-resolution videos. Regardless, for any practical application
where time is critical, you should conduct tests using the types of data and
hardware that your users may have.
Next, let’s turn our attention to the task of capturing video input from a camera
instead of from a pre-recorded video file.
Capturing camera frames
A stream of camera frames is represented by a VideoCapture object too.
However, for a camera, we construct a VideoCapture object by passing the
camera's device index instead of a video's filename. Let's consider the following
example, which captures 10 seconds of video from a camera and writes it to an
AVI file. The code is similar to the previous section's sample (which captured
frames from a video file instead of a camera) but changes are hightlighted in
bold :
For some cameras on certain systems,
cameraCapture.get(cv2.CAP_PROP_FRAME_WIDTH) and
cameraCapture.get(cv2.CAP_PROP_FRAME_HEIGHT) may return inaccurate
results. To be more certain of the actual image dimensions, you can first capture a
frame and then get its height and width with code such as h, w =
frame.shape[:2] . Occasionally, you might even encounter a camera that yields
a few bad frames with unstable dimensions before it starts yielding good frames
with stable dimensions. If you are concerned about guarding against this kind of
quirk, you may want to read and ignore a few frames at the start of a capture
session.
We could, in principle, call cameraCapture.get(cv2.CAP_PROP_FPS) to get the
camera’s frame rate; however, for most cameras on most systems, this does not
return an accurate value; it typically returns either nan (not a number) or 0 . The
official documentation at

--- Strana 49 ---
https://docs.opencv.org/master/d8/dfe/classcv_1_1VideoCapture.html#aa6480e69
72ef4c00d74814ec841a2939 warns of the following:
"Value 0 is returned when querying a property that is not supported by the
backend used by the VideoCapture instance. Note Reading / writing
properties involves many layers. Some unexpected result might happen along
this chain. VideoCapture -> API Backend -> Operating System ->
Device Driver -> Device Hardware The returned value might be different
from what really is used by the device or it could be encoded using device-
dependent rules (for example, steps or percentage). Effective behavior
depends on device driver and the API backend."
To create an appropriate VideoWriter instance for the camera, we have to either
make an assumption about the frame rate (as we did in the preceding code) or
measure it using a timer. The latter approach is better and we will cover it later in
this chapter, in the Abstracting a video stream with managers, CaptureManager
section.
The number of cameras and their order is, of course, system-dependent.
Unfortunately, OpenCV does not provide any means of querying the number of
cameras or their properties. If an invalid index is used to construct a
VideoCapture class, the VideoCapture class will not yield any frames; its read
method will return (False, None) . To avoid trying to retrieve frames from a
VideoCapture object that was not opened correctly, you may want to first call the
VideoCapture.isOpened method, which returns a Boolean.
The read method is inappropriate when we need to synchronize either a set of
cameras or a multihead camera such as a stereo camera. Then, we use the grab
and retrieve methods instead. For a set of two cameras, we can use code similar
to the following:
Finally, bear in mind that the VideoCapture class is an abstraction, in the sense
that it may use various underlying video capture APIs or camera APIs, depending
on the operating system and the way we have configured OpenCV. For example,
depending on the configuration choices that you made in Chapter 1 , Setting Up
OpenCV , your build of OpenCV may or may not support the use of
VideoCapture with OpenNI-compatible depth cameras.
Optionally, when we construct a VideoCapture instance, we can specify which
camera API we want to use as a back-end. For example, on Windows, the default
back-end for most camera hardware is Microsoft Media Foundation (MSMF) ,

--- Strana 50 ---
and thus our previous code sample uses this default; however, if we want to use
the older and more widely compatible DirectShow back-end, we can request it as
follows:
Alternatively, if we want to change the way OpenCV selects a default camera
back-end on a particular system, we can do so via an environment variable. For
example, if we want to ensure that OpenCV avoids the MSMF back-end, we can
define an environment variable with the name OPENCV_VIDEOIO_PRIORITY_MSMF
and the value 0 . This means MSMF becomes OpenCV’s least-preferred (lowest-
priority) camera back-end.
Sometimes, a particular camera proves to be incompatible with a particular
back-end. Then, you may want to take steps to change the back-end, as
described above. On Windows, OpenCV may give errors such as the
following if a camera is not working with the MSMF back-end:
Then, instead of MSMF, you could try DirectShow, as described above.
For a list of other back-end flags besides cv2.CAP_DSHOW , see the documentation
at https://docs.opencv.org/master/d4/d15/group__videoio__flags__base.html .
Sending a video stream over a network
Perhaps you have heard of a type of camera called an IP camera , which
continuously sends a stream of images via a specified IP address on a network.
The video stream from an IP camera can potentially be viewed in any web
browser on any computer connected to the same network. Of course, the network
should be secured to prevent unwanted access. IP cameras are used in a wide
range of practical applications, including security systems, baby monitors, and
livestock monitors.
Using OpenCV and a bit of networking code, we can turn any webcam or any
computer vision application into the equivalent of an IP camera. For prototyping
purposes, this is a great way to present a demo to multiple users, or to debug an
application that is running on a headless system (a system with no display
capabilities of its own). For example, if your computer vision application runs on
a small, mobile robot, then you and other users may find it convenient to access
the robot’s video stream in a web browser on other local systems, rather than
trying to build display capabilities into the robot itself.

--- Strana 51 ---
The following sample assumes some basic familiarity with concepts relating
to web applications, but let’s review a few key terms. A client application,
such as a web browser, typically sends a request to a server application,
such as a streaming video service. The server application sends a response
to the client; the response may contain content for the client to use. The
client and server applications may be running on the same machine or
different machines. On a network, a machine is identified by an IP address .
On a given machine, a particular server application is identified by a port
number . Thus, a client app can find a server app by the combination of IP
address and port number.
Let’s build a basic sample of a video streaming server. To capture images from a
camera, we will use OpenCV. To serve the images via a network, we will use
Flask, a minimalistic web application framework for Python. We can install Flask
by running one of the following commands (depending on the environment):
For any Python environment, using pip as a package manager, run:
Alternatively, on Debian or Ubuntu, using apt as a package manager, run:
Alternatively, on Arch Linux or Manjaro, using pacman as a package
manager, run:
Having installed Flask, we can begin to write our sample Python script. Import
OpenCV and Flask as follows:
Next, we will create an instance of a Flask application. For this purpose, Flask
provides a class that is simply called flask.Flask . We instantiate it with a
module name, which is normally just the name of our script:
Our Flask application has one role: to serve a stream of images. We will use a
streaming format called Motion JPEG (MJPEG), which is supported by all
popular web browsers and many other stream-reading applications. The stream
will consist of an indeterminate number of frames, captured from a camera and
converted to JPEG format. The stream will start when a client connects to our
server, and it will end when the client disconnects.
Before a function that uses Flask to handle client requests, let’s first write a helper
function that uses OpenCV to capture and convert frames. Specifically, the helper
will be a Python generator function, which is a convenient way to encapsulate
logic about getting the next element in an indefinitely long series (of frames, in

--- Strana 52 ---
our case). Our helper begins with familiar code to start capturing low-resolution
camera frames:
We will capture and convert frames in a loop until we fail to read a frame from
the camera, or until we fail to convert a frame to JPEG format, or until the rest of
our application stops calling our generator function. To convert frames, we will
use an OpenCV function called imencode , which is very similar to imwrite ,
except that imencode keeps the encoded image in memory instead of writing it to
file. Every time we successfully encode a JPEG image, we will parcel the JPEG
data with a header, in a format defined by the MJPEG standard. Also, each packet
in the MJPEG stream is separated from the next by a boundary marker, in this
case '--frame' . Here is the implementation of the loop:
Note the use of Python’s yield keyword, which is a defining characteristic of a
generator function. The yield keyword is akin to the return keyword, but the
next time the generator function is called, it will start from the last yield
statement instead of from the beginning of the function.
That concludes the implementation of our mjpeg_generator helper function.
Now, let’s see how we can use such a function to make Flask serve a continuous
stream of images in response to a client’s request. Flask enables us to use a
decorator pattern to associate certain functions with certain web requests. Here is
a function that handles any requests directed at the root ( '/' ) path of streaming
video server:
The @ annotation (as in @app@app.route ) denotes a Python decorator , a
built-in feature of the language that allows the wrapping of a function by
another function, normally used to apply user-defined or library-defined
behavior in several places inin an application. You can find relevant
documentation at
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/compound_stmts.html#grammar-token-
decorator .
Note that the app in @app.route is the variable name we gave to our
flask.Flask instance, near the start of our script. The function name
stream_from_camera has no special significance, as far as Flask is concerned;
we could have chosen any function name for this request handler. Finally, note
that the role of this function is to return a flask.Response object, which
represents our server’s response to the client’s request. Specifically, the response
is an MJPEG stream. We initialize the flask.Response instance by calling our
generator function, which provides the stream’s content, and by specifying a

--- Strana 53 ---
standard media type or mimetype , which tells the client what kind of content to
expect. Here, the mimetype 'multipart/x-mixed-replace;boundary=frame'
tells the client to expect a series of packets, where each new packet’s content (in
this case, each JPEG frame) is intended to replace the last, and where the
boundary marker between packets is '--frame' .
The only thing left to do in this script is to tell our server application to start
running. We can do this, with some optional arguments, as follows:
The host argument specifies an IP address where the application should accept
incoming requests; the special value '0.0.0.0' means that Flask should use any
and all IP addresses available, including any and all IP addresses that your router
has assigned to this computer. (Alternatively, we can manually specify an IP
address, but it has to be a valid address for this computer on this network, or else
our app will fail to run.) The port argument is the port number; we use 8080 ,
which is a conventional port number for HTTP server apps, other than a public
website (which is conventionally port 80). Lastly, with threaded=True , we
specify that this server app should be multithreaded; this makes it possible for
multiple clients to connect at once.
Here, our networking code is a rudimentary sample, it has no security
features, and the resulting video stream is accessible to anybody on the same
network. Do not use this code on public networks – for instance, in airports
or cafés. For practical video streaming applications, always consider using
HTTPS, password protection, and other security measures as appropriate.
Let’s run our script. Your operating system or firewall software might ask you
whether Python can have permission to access the network. Say yes. Now, you
should see command line output similar to the following:
Take note of the two URLs. The IP address starting with 127.0 will only work on
the same machine. The IP address starting with 192.168 will also work on other
machines on the same local network.
Now, on the same computer, open a web browser and enter the first URL (such as
http://127.0.0.1:8080 ) in the browser’s address bar. The camera should start
capturing frames (and its recording light should turn on, if it has one), and you
should see the resulting video stream in the browser window.
Now, on a different computer connected to the same local network, open a web
browser and navigate to the second URL (such as http://192.168.2.10:8080 ).

--- Strana 54 ---
Again, you should see a stream of frames from the camera attached to the first
computer. The video streams in the two web browsers, on the two machines,
should appear to be synchronized or nearly synchronized, unless your local
network is very slow.
The following photo shows the camera stream in two web browsers, on two
machines. The laptop is capturing the camera frames and streaming them to the
web browsers on the same laptop and on the desktop:
Figure 2.3: A photo of an MJPEG streaming application. A server
application on the laptop is capturing video frames from the laptop’s
camera, converting them to JPEG format, and streaming them to two
client applications: a web browser on the same laptop and a web
browser on the desktop.
When you have finished looking at the streams, close the two web browsers. The
camera should stop capturing frames (and its recording light should turn off, if it
has one). As the command line output says, you can press Ctrl+C to quit the
server app.
Now, let’s move on to writing our own basic GUI applications, to show a camera
stream on a local machine, without any networking code or web browsers.

--- Strana 55 ---
Displaying an image in a window
One of the most basic operations in OpenCV is displaying an image in a window.
This can be done with the imshow function. If you come from any other GUI
framework background, you might think it sufficient to call imshow to display an
image. However, in OpenCV, the window is drawn (or re-drawn) only when you
call another function, waitKey . The latter function pumps the window's event
queue (allowing various events such as drawing to be handled), and it returns the
keycode of any key that the user may have typed within a specified timeout. To
some extent, this rudimentary design simplifies the task of developing demos that
use video or webcam input; at least the developer has manual control over the
capture and display of new frames.
Here is a very simple sample script to read an image from a file and display it:
The imshow function takes two parameters: the name of the window in which we
want to display the image and the image itself. We will talk about waitKey in
more detail in the next section, Displaying camera frames in a window .
The aptly named destroyAllWindows function disposes of all of the windows
created by OpenCV.
Displaying camera frames in a window
OpenCV allows named windows to be created, redrawn, and destroyed using the
namedWindow , imshow , and destroyWindow functions. Also, any window may
capture keyboard input via the waitKey function and mouse input via the
setMouseCallback function. Let's look at an example where we show the frames
captured from a live camera:
The argument for waitKey is a number of milliseconds to wait for keyboard
input. By default, it is 0 , which is a special value meaning infinity. The return
value is either -1 (meaning that no key has been pressed) or an ASCII keycode,
such as 27 for Esc . For a list of ASCII keycodes, refer to
https://www.asciitable.com/ . Also, note that Python provides a standard function,
ord , which can convert a character into its ASCII keycode. For example,
ord('a') returns 97 .
Again, note that OpenCV's window functions and waitKey are interdependent.
OpenCV windows are only updated when waitKey is called. Conversely,

--- Strana 56 ---
waitKey only captures input when an OpenCV window has focus.
The mouse callback passed to setMouseCallback should take five arguments, as
seen in our code sample. The callback's param argument is set as an optional
third argument to setMouseCallback . By default, it is 0 . The callback's event
argument is one of the following actions:
cv2.EVENT_MOUSEMOVE : This event refers to mouse movement.
cv2.EVENT_LBUTTONDOWN : This event refers to the left button going down
when it is pressed.
cv2.EVENT_RBUTTONDOWN : This event refers to the right button going down
when it is pressed.
cv2.EVENT_MBUTTONDOWN : This event refers to the middle button going
down when it is pressed.
cv2.EVENT_LBUTTONUP : This event refers to the left button coming back up
when it is released.
cv2.EVENT_RBUTTONUP : This event refers to the right button coming back
up when it is released.
cv2.EVENT_MBUTTONUP : This event refers to the middle button coming back
up when it is released.
cv2.EVENT_LBUTTONDBLCLK : This event refers to the left button being
double-clicked.
cv2.EVENT_RBUTTONDBLCLK : This event refers to the right button being
double-clicked.
cv2.EVENT_MBUTTONDBLCLK : This event refers to the middle button being
double-clicked.
The mouse callback's flags argument may be some bitwise combination of the
following events:
cv2.EVENT_FLAG_LBUTTON : This event refers to the left button being
pressed.
cv2.EVENT_FLAG_RBUTTON : This event refers to the right button being
pressed.
cv2.EVENT_FLAG_MBUTTON : This event refers to the middle button being
pressed.
cv2.EVENT_FLAG_CTRLKEY : This event refers to the Ctrl key being pressed.
cv2.EVENT_FLAG_SHIFTKEY : This event refers to the Shift key being
pressed.
cv2.EVENT_FLAG_ALTKEY : This event refers to the Alt key being pressed.

--- Strana 57 ---
Unfortunately, OpenCV does not provide any means of manually handling
window events. For example, we cannot stop our application when a window's
close button is clicked. Due to OpenCV's limited event handling and GUI
capabilities, many developers prefer to integrate it with other application
frameworks. Later in this chapter, in the Cameo – an object-oriented design
section, we will design an abstraction layer to help to integrate OpenCV with any
application framework.

--- Strana 58 ---
Project Cameo (face tracking and
image manipulation)
OpenCV is often studied through a cookbook approach that covers a lot of
algorithms, but nothing about high-level application development. To an
extent, this approach is understandable because OpenCV's potential
applications are so diverse. To name just a few examples, OpenCV can be
used in photo/video editors, motion-controlled games, medical imaging
devices, a robot's AI, or psychology experiments where we log participants'
eye movements. Across these varied use cases, can we truly study a useful
set of abstractions?
The book's authors believe we can, and the sooner we start creating
abstractions, the better. Throughout Chapters 2 to 5 , we will structure
several of our OpenCV examples around a single application, but, at each
step, we will design a component of this application to be extensible and
reusable.
We will develop an interactive application that performs face tracking and
image manipulations on camera input in real time. This type of application
covers a broad range of OpenCV's functionality and challenges us to create
an efficient, effective implementation.
Specifically, our application will merge faces in real time. Given two
streams of camera input (or, optionally, prerecorded video input), the
application will superimpose faces from one stream atop faces in the other.
Filters and distortions will be applied to give this blended scene a unified
look and feel. Users should have the experience of being engaged in a live
performance where they enter another environment and persona. This type
of user experience is popular in amusement parks such as Disneyland.
In such an application, users would immediately notice flaws, such as a low
frame rate or inaccurate tracking. To get the best results, we will try several
approaches using conventional imaging and depth imaging.

--- Strana 59 ---
We will call our application Cameo. A cameo (in jewelry) is a small portrait
of a person or (in film) a very brief role played by a celebrity.

--- Strana 60 ---
Cameo – an object-oriented design
Python applications can be written in a purely procedural style. This is often done
with small applications, such as our basic I/O scripts, discussed previously.
However, from now on, we will often use an object-oriented style because it
promotes modularity and extensibility.
From our overview of OpenCV's I/O functionality, we know that all images are
similar, regardless of their source or destination. No matter how we obtain a
stream of images or where we send it as output, we can apply the same
application-specific logic to each frame in this stream. Separation of I/O code and
application code becomes especially convenient in an application, such as Cameo,
which uses multiple I/O streams.
We will create classes called CaptureManager and WindowManager as high-level
interfaces to I/O streams. Our application code may use CaptureManager to read
new frames and, optionally, to dispatch each frame to one or more outputs,
including a still image file, a video file, and a window (via a WindowManager
class). A WindowManager class lets our application code handle a window and
events in an object-oriented style.
Both CaptureManager and WindowManager are extensible. We could make
implementations that did not rely on OpenCV for I/O.
Abstracting a video stream with
managers.CaptureManager
As we have seen, OpenCV can capture, show, and record a stream of images from
either a video file or camera, but there are some special considerations in each
case. Our CaptureManager class abstracts some of the differences and provides a
higher-level interface to dispatch images from the capture stream to one or more
outputs—a still image file, video file, or window.
A CaptureManager object is initialized with a VideoCapture object and has
enterFrame and exitFrame methods that should typically be called on every
iteration of an application's main loop. Between a call to enterFrame and
exitFrame , the application may (any number of times) set a channel property

--- Strana 61 ---
and get a frame property. The channel property is initially 0 and only multihead
cameras use other values. The frame property is an image corresponding to the
current channel's state when enterFrame was called.
A CaptureManager class also has the writeImage , startWritingVideo , and
stopWritingVideo methods that may be called at any time. Actual file writing is
postponed until exitFrame . Also, during the exitFrame method, frame may be
shown in a window, depending on whether the application code provides a
WindowManager class either as an argument to the constructor of CaptureManager
or by setting the previewWindowManager property.
If the application code manipulates frame , the manipulations are reflected in
recorded files and in the window. A CaptureManager class has a constructor
argument and property called shouldMirrorPreview , which should be True if
we want frame to be mirrored (horizontally flipped) in the window but not in
recorded files. Typically, when facing a camera, users prefer a live camera feed to
be mirrored.
Recall that a VideoWriter object needs a frame rate, but OpenCV does not
provide any reliable way to get an accurate frame rate for a camera. The
CaptureManager class works around this limitation by using a frame counter and
Python's standard time.perf_counter function to estimate the frame rate if
necessary. This approach is not foolproof. Depending on frame rate fluctuations
and the system-dependent implementation of time.perf_counter , the accuracy
of the estimate might still be poor in some cases. However, if we deploy to
unknown hardware, it is better than just assuming that the user's camera has a
particular frame rate.
Let's create a file called managers.py , which will contain our implementation of
CaptureManager . This implementation turns out to be quite long, so we will
look at it in several pieces:
1. First, let's add imports and a constructor, as follows:
1. Next, let's add the following getter and setter methods for the properties of
CaptureManager :
Note that most of the member variables are nonpublic, as denoted by the
underscore prefix in variable names, such as self._enteredFrame . These
nonpublic variables relate to the state of the current frame and any file-writing
operations. As discussed previously, the application code only needs to configure

--- Strana 62 ---
a few things, which are implemented as constructor arguments and settable public
properties: the camera channel, the window manager, and the option to mirror the
camera preview.
Python does not enforce the concept of nonpublic member variables, but in
cases where the developer intends a variable to be treated as nonpublic, you
will often see the single-underscore prefix ( _ ) or double-underscore prefix
( __ ). The single-underscore prefix is just a convention, indicating that the
variable should be treated as protected (accessed only within the class and its
subclasses). The double-underscore prefix actually causes the Python
interpreter to rename the variable, such that MyClass.__myVariable
becomes MyClass._MyClass__myVariable . This is called name mangling
(quite appropriately). By convention, such a variable should be treated as
private (accessed only within the class, and not its subclasses). The same
prefixes, with the same significance, can be applied to methods as well as
variables.
1. Continuing with our implementation, let's add the enterFrame method to
managers.py :
Note that the implementation of enterFrame only grabs (synchronizes) a frame,
whereas actual retrieval from a channel is postponed to a subsequent reading of
the frame variable.
1. Next, let's add the exitFrame method to managers.py :
The implementation of exitFrame takes the image from the current channel,
estimates a frame rate, shows the image via the window manager (if any), and
fulfills any pending requests to write the image to files.
1. Several other methods also pertain to file writing. Let's add the following
implementations of public methods named writeImage ,
startWritingVideo , and stopWritingVideo to managers.py :
The preceding methods simply update the parameters for file-writing operations,
whereas the actual writing operations are postponed to the next call of exitFrame
.
1. Earlier in this section, we saw that exitFrame calls a helper method named
_writeVideoFrame . Let's add the following implementation of
_writeVideoFrame to managers.py :

--- Strana 63 ---
The preceding method creates or appends to a video file in a manner that should
be familiar from our earlier scripts (refer to the Reading/writing a video file
section, earlier in this chapter). However, in situations where the frame rate is
unknown, we skip some frames at the start of the capture session so that we have
time to build up an estimate of the frame rate.
This concludes our implementation of CaptureManager . Although it relies on
VideoCapture , we could make other implementations that do not use OpenCV
for input. For example, we could make a subclass that is instantiated with a socket
connection, whose byte stream could be parsed as a stream of images. Also, we
could make a subclass that uses a third-party camera library with different
hardware support than what OpenCV provides. However, for Cameo, our current
implementation is sufficient.
Abstracting a window and keyboard with
managers.WindowManager
As we have seen, OpenCV provides functions that cause a window to be created,
be destroyed, show an image, and process events. Rather than being methods of a
window class, these functions require a window's name to pass as an argument.
Since this interface is not object-oriented, it is arguably inconsistent with
OpenCV's general style. Also, it is unlikely to be compatible with other window-
or event-handling interfaces that we might eventually want to use instead of
OpenCV's.
For the sake of object orientation and adaptability, we abstract this functionality
into a WindowManager class with the createWindow , destroyWindow , show ,
and processEvents methods. As a property, WindowManager has a function
object called keypressCallback , which (if it is not None ) is called from
processEvents in response to any keypress. The keypressCallback object must
be a function that takes a single argument, specifically an ASCII keycode.
Let's add an implementation of WindowManager to managers.py . The
implementation begins with the following class declaration and __init__
method:
The implementation continues with the following methods to manage the life
cycle of the window and its events:

--- Strana 64 ---
Our current implementation only supports keyboard events, which will be
sufficient for Cameo. However, we could modify WindowManager to support
mouse events, too. For example, the class interface could be expanded to include
a mouseCallback property (and optional constructor argument,) but could
otherwise remain the same. With an event framework other than OpenCV's, we
could support additional event types in the same way by adding callback
properties.
Applying everything with cameo.Cameo
Our application is represented by the Cameo class with two methods: run and
onKeypress . On initialization, a Cameo object creates a WindowManager object
with onKeypress as a callback, as well as a CaptureManager object using a
camera (specifically, a cv2.VideoCapture object) and the same WindowManager
object. When run is called, the application executes a main loop in which frames
and events are processed.
As a result of event processing, onKeypress may be called. The spacebar causes
a screenshot to be taken, Tab causes a screencast (a video recording) to start/stop,
and Esc causes the application to quit.
In the same directory as managers.py , let's create a file called cameo.py , where
we will implement the Cameo class:
1. The implementation begins with the following import statements and
__init__ method:
1. Next, let's add the following implementation of the run method:
1. To complete the Cameo class implementation, here is the onKeypress
method:
1. Finally, let's add a __main__ block that instantiates and runs Cameo , as
follows:
When running the application, note that the live camera feed is mirrored, while
screenshots and screencasts are not. This is the intended behavior, as we pass
True for shouldMirrorPreview when initializing the CaptureManager class.

--- Strana 65 ---
Here is a screenshot of Cameo, showing a window (with the title Cameo ) and the
current frame from a camera:
Figure 2.4: A screenshot of the Cameo application, showing a camera
frame in a window
So far, we do not manipulate the frames in any way except to mirror them for
preview. We will start to add more interesting effects in Chapter 3 , Processing
Images with OpenCV .

--- Strana 66 ---
Summary
By now, we should have an application that displays a camera feed, listens
for keyboard input, and (on command) records a screenshot or screencast.
We are ready to extend the application by inserting some image-filtering
code ( Chapter 3 , Processing Images with OpenCV ) between the start and
end of each frame. Optionally, we are also ready to integrate other camera
drivers or application frameworks besides the ones supported by OpenCV.
We also possess the knowledge to manipulate images as NumPy arrays,
UMat objects, or data that we can stream over a network. An understanding
of image data and especially of NumPy arrays forms the perfect foundation
for our next topic, filtering images.

--- Strana 67 ---
Join our book community on
Discord
https://discord.gg/djGjeMECxw
Sooner or later, when working with images, you will find you need to alter
them: be it by applying artistic filters, extrapolating certain sections,
blending two images, or whatever else your mind can conjure. This chapter
presents some techniques that you can use to alter images. By the end of it,
you should be able to perform tasks such as sharpening an image, marking
the contours of subjects, and detecting crosswalks using a line segment
detector. Specifically, our discussion and code samples will cover the
following topics:
Converting images between different color models
Understanding the importance of frequencies and the Fourier
transform in image processing
Applying high-pass filters (HPFs) , low-pass filters (LPFs) , edge
detection filters, and custom convolution filters
Detecting and analyzing contours, lines, circles, and other geometric
shapes
Writing classes and functions that encapsulate the implementation of a
filter

--- Strana 68 ---
Technical requirements
This chapter uses Python, OpenCV, NumPy, and SciPy. Please refer to
Chapter 1 , Setting Up OpenCV , for installation instructions.
The completed code for this chapter can be found in this book's GitHub
repository, https://github.com/PacktPublishing/Learning-OpenCV-5-
Computer-Vision-with-Python-Fourth-Edition , in the chapter03 folder. The
sample images are also in this book's GitHub repository, in the images
folder.
A subset of the chapter’s sample code can be edited and run interactively in
Google Colab at
https://colab.research.google.com/github/PacktPublishing/Learning-
OpenCV-5-Computer-Vision-with-Python-Fourth-
Edition/blob/main/chapter03/chapter03.ipynb .

--- Strana 69 ---
Converting images between
different color models
OpenCV implements literally hundreds of formulas that pertain to the
conversion of color models. Some color models are commonly used by
input devices such as cameras, while other models are commonly used for
output devices such as televisions, computer displays, and printers. In
between input and output, when we apply computer vision techniques to
images, we will typically work with three kinds of color models: grayscale,
blue-green-red (BGR) , and hue-saturation-value (HSV) . Let's go over
these briefly:
Grayscale is a model that reduces color information by translating it
into shades of gray or brightness. This model is extremely useful for
the intermediate processing of images in problems where brightness
information alone is sufficient, such as face detection. Typically, each
pixel in a grayscale image is represented by a single 8-bit value,
ranging from 0 for black to 255 for white.
BGR is the blue-green-red color model, in which each pixel has a
triplet of values representing the blue, green, and red components or
channels of the pixel's color. Web developers, and anyone who works
with computer graphics, will be familiar with a similar definition of
colors, except with the reverse channel order, red-green-blue (RGB) .
Typically, each pixel in a BGR image is represented by a triplet of 8-
bit values, such as [0, 0, 0] for black, [255, 0, 0] for blue, [0,
255, 0] for green, [0, 0, 255] for red, and [255, 255, 255] for
white.
The HSV model uses a different triplet of channels. Hue is the color's
tone, saturation is its intensity, and value represents its brightness.
By default, OpenCV uses the BGR color model (with 8 bits per channel) to
represent any image that it loads from a file or captures from a camera.

--- Strana 70 ---
Now that we have defined the color models we will use, let's consider how
the default model might differ from our intuitive understanding of color.
Light is not paint
For newcomers to the BGR color space, it might seem that things do not
add up properly: for example, the [0, 255, 255] triplet (no blue, full
green, and full red) produces the color yellow. If you have an artistic
background, you won't even need to pick up paints and brushes to know
that green and red paint mix together into a muddy shade of brown.
However, the color models that are used in computing are called additive
models and they deal with lights. Lights behave differently from paints
(which follow a subtractive color model), and since software runs on a
computer whose medium is a monitor that emits light, the color model of
reference is an additive one.

--- Strana 71 ---
Exploring the Fourier transform
Much of the processing you apply to images and videos in OpenCV involves the
concept of the Fourier transform in some capacity. Joseph Fourier was an 18th-
century French mathematician who discovered and popularized many
mathematical concepts. He studied the physics of heat, and the mathematics of all
things that can be represented by waveform functions. In particular, he observed
that all waveforms are just the sum of simple sinusoids of different frequencies.
In other words, the waveforms you observe all around you are the sum of other
waveforms. This concept is incredibly useful when manipulating images because
it allows us to identify regions in images where a signal (such as the values of
image pixels) changes a lot, and also regions where the change is less dramatic.
We can then apply domain-specific logic to mark these regions as noise or regions
of interests, background or foreground, and so on. These are the frequencies that
make up the original image, and we have the power to separate them to make
sense of the image and extrapolate interesting data.
OpenCV implements a number of algorithms that enable us to process
images and make sense of the data contained in them, and these are also
reimplemented in NumPy to make our life even easier. NumPy has a fast
Fourier transform (FFT) package, which contains the fft2 method. This
method allows us to compute a discrete Fourier transform (DFT) of the
image. For more about the Fourier transform and its advanced usage in
image analysis, see Joseph Howse’s book OpenCV 4 for Secret Agents ,
specifically Chapter 7, Seeing a Heartbeat with a Motion-Amplifying
Camera .
The Fourier transform can be used to find the magnitude spectrum of an image
(or other data). The magnitude spectrum represents the original image (or other
data) in terms of its changes. Think of it as taking an image and dragging all the
brightest pixels to the center. Then, you gradually work your way out to the
border where all the darkest pixels have been pushed. Immediately, you will be
able to see how many light and dark pixels are contained in your image and the
percentage of their distribution.
The Fourier transform is the conceptual basis of many algorithms that are used
for common image processing operations, such as edge detection or line and

--- Strana 72 ---
shape detection. However, the Fourier transform is an expensive operation, so, in
practice, many algorithms replace it with simpler functions that process a small
region or neighborhood of pixels, instead of computing waveforms or frequencies
across the entire image.
Before examining line and shape detection in detail, let's take a look at two kinds
of filters that form the foundation of edge detection: HPFs and LPFs.
HPFs and LPFs
An HPF is a filter that examines a region of an image and boosts the intensity of
certain pixels based on the difference in the intensity of the surrounding pixels.
Take, for example, the following kernel:
A kernel is a set of weights that are applied to a region in a source image to
generate a single pixel in the destination image. For example, if we call an
OpenCV function with a parameter to specify a kernel size or ksize of 7 ,
this implies that 49 (7 x 7) source pixels are considered when generating
each destination pixel. We can think of a kernel as a piece of frosted glass
moving over the source image and letting a diffused blend of the source's
light pass through.
The preceding kernel gives us the average difference in intensity between the
central pixel and all its immediate horizontal neighbors. If a pixel stands out from
the surrounding pixels, the resulting value will be high. This type of kernel
represents a so-called high-boost filter, which is a type of HPF, and it is
particularly effective in edge detection.
Note that the values in an edge detection kernel typically sum up to 0 . We
will cover this in the Custom kernels – getting convoluted section of this
chapter.
Let's go through an example of applying an HPF to an image:
After the initial imports, we define a 3x3 kernel and a 5x5 kernel, and then we
load the image in grayscale. After that, we want to convolve the image with each
of the kernels. There are several library functions available for such a purpose.
NumPy provides the convolve function; however, it only accepts one-
dimensional arrays. Although the convolution of multidimensional arrays can be

--- Strana 73 ---
achieved with NumPy, it would be a bit complex. SciPy's ndimage module
provides another convolve function, which supports multidimensional arrays.
Finally, OpenCV provides a filter2D function (for convolution with 2D arrays)
and a sepFilter2D function (for the special case of a 2D kernel that can be
decomposed into two one-dimensional kernels). The preceding code sample
illustrates the ndimage.convolve function. We will use the cv2.filter2D
function in other samples in the Custom kernels – getting convoluted section of
this chapter.
Our script proceeds by applying two HPFs with the two convolution kernels we
defined. Finally, we also implement a different method of obtaining an HPF by
applying a LPF and calculating the difference between the original image. Let's
see how each filter looks. As input, we start with the following photograph:
Figure 3.1a: A photograph of a statue of an angel, with a clear sky in the
background. We will perform high-pass (edge detection) and low-pass
(blur) filtering on this image.
Now, here is a screenshot of the output:

--- Strana 74 ---
Figure 3.1b: Results of applying high-pass and low-pass filters. Top
left: A basic 3x3 high-pass kernel. Top right: A basic 5x5 high-pass
kernel. Bottom-left: A Gaussian blur low-pass kernel. Bottom-right: A
differential high-pass filter, based on the preceding Gaussian blur result.
You will notice that the differential HPF, as shown in the bottom-right
photograph, yields the best edge-finding result. Since this differential method
involves a low-pass filter, let's elaborate on that type of filter. If an HPF boosts
the intensity of a pixel, given its difference with neighbors, a LPF will smooth or
flatten the pixel intensity if the difference from surrounding pixels is lower than a
certain threshold. This is used in denoising and blurring. For example, one of the
most popular blurring/smoothing filters, the Gaussian blur, is a low-pass filter that

--- Strana 75 ---
attenuates the intensity of high-frequency signals. The result of the Gaussian blur
is shown in the lower-left photograph.
Now that we have tried these filters in a basic example, let's consider how to
integrate them into a larger, more interactive application.

--- Strana 76 ---
Creating modules
Let's revisit the Cameo project that we started in Chapter 2 , Handling
Files, Cameras, and GUIs . We can modify Cameo so that it applies filters
to the captured images in real time. As in the case of our CaptureManager
and WindowManager classes, our filters should be reusable outside of
Cameo. Thus, we should separate the filters into their own Python module
or file.
Let's create a file called filters.py in the same directory as cameo.py .
We need the following import statements in filters.py :
Let's also create a file called utils.py in the same directory. It should
contain the following import statements:
We will be adding filter functions and classes to filters.py , while more
general-purpose math functions will go in utils.py .

--- Strana 77 ---
Edge detection
Edges play a major role in both human and computer vision. We, as
humans, can easily recognize many object types and their pose just by
seeing a backlit silhouette or a rough sketch. Indeed, when art emphasizes
edges and poses, it often seems to convey the idea of an archetype, such as
Auguste Rodin's The Thinker or Joe Shuster's Superman . Software, too, can
reason about edges, poses, and archetypes. We will discuss these kinds of
reasoning in later chapters.
OpenCV provides many edge-finding filters, including Laplacian , Sobel
, and Scharr . These filters are supposed to turn non-edge regions into
black and turn edge regions into white or saturated colors. However, they
are prone to misidentifying noise as edges. This flaw can be mitigated by
blurring an image before trying to find its edges. OpenCV also provides
many blurring filters, including blur (a simple average), medianBlur , and
GaussianBlur . The arguments for the edge-finding and blurring filters
vary but always include ksize , an odd whole number that represents the
width and height (in pixels) of a filter's kernel.
For blurring, let's use medianBlur , which is effective in removing digital
video noise, especially in color images. For edge-finding, let's use
Laplacian , which produces bold edge lines, especially in grayscale
images. After applying medianBlur , but before applying Laplacian , we
should convert the image from BGR into grayscale.
Once we have the result of Laplacian , we can invert it to get black edges
on a white background. Then, we can normalize it (so that its values range
from 0 to 1) and then multiply it with the source image to darken the edges.
Let's implement this approach in filters.py :
Note that we allow kernel sizes to be specified as arguments for
strokeEdges . The blurKsize argument is used as ksize for medianBlur
, while edgeKsize is used as ksize for Laplacian . With a typical
webcam, a blurKsize value of 7 and an edgeKsize value of 5 might

--- Strana 78 ---
produce the most pleasing effect. Unfortunately, medianBlur is expensive
with a large ksize argument, such as 7 .
If you encounter performance problems when running strokeEdges ,
try decreasing the blurKsize value. To turn off the blur effect, set it to
a value of less than 3 .
We will see the effect of this filter a little later in this chapter, after we have
integrated it into Cameo in the Modifying the application section.

--- Strana 79 ---
Custom kernels – getting
convoluted
As we have just seen, many of OpenCV's predefined filters use a kernel.
Remember that a kernel is a set of weights that determines how each output
pixel is calculated from a neighborhood of input pixels. Another term for a
kernel is a convolution matrix . It mixes up or convolves the pixels in a
region. Similarly, a kernel-based filter may be called a convolution filter.
OpenCV provides a very versatile filter2D function, which applies any
kernel or convolution matrix that we specify. To understand how to use this
function, let's learn about the format of a convolution matrix. It is a 2D
array with an odd number of rows and columns. The central element
corresponds to a pixel of interest, while the other elements correspond to
the neighbors of this pixel. Each element contains an integer or floating-
point value, which is a weight that gets applied to an input pixel's value.
Consider this example:
Here, the pixel of interest has a weight of 9 and its immediate neighbors
each have a weight of -1 . For the pixel of interest, the output color will be
nine times its input color, minus the input colors of all eight adjacent pixels.
If the pixel of interest is already a bit different from its neighbors, this
difference becomes intensified. The effect is that the output image looks
sharper , as the contrast between the neighbors is increased.
Continuing with our example, we can apply this convolution matrix to a
source and destination image, respectively, as follows:
The second argument specifies the per-channel depth of the destination
image (such as cv2.CV_8U for 8 bits per channel). A negative value (such as
to one being used here) means that the destination image has the same depth
as the source image.

--- Strana 80 ---
For color images, note that filter2D applies the kernel equally to
each channel. To use different kernels on different channels, we would
also have to use OpenCV’s split and merge functions.
Based on this simple example, let's add two classes to filters.py . One
class, VConvolutionFilter , will represent a convolution filter in general.
A subclass, SharpenFilter , will represent our sharpening filter
specifically. Let's edit filters.py so that we can implement these two new
classes, as follows:
Note that the weights sum up to 1 . This should be the case whenever we
want to leave the image's overall brightness unchanged. If we modify a
sharpening kernel slightly so that its weights sum up to 0 instead, we'll
have an edge detection kernel that turns edges white and non-edges black.
For example, let's add the following edge detection filter to filters.py :
Next, let's make a blur filter. Generally, for a blur effect, the weights should
sum up to 1 and should be positive throughout the neighborhood. For
example, we can take a simple average of the neighborhood as follows:
Our sharpening, edge detection, and blur filters use kernels that are highly
symmetric. Sometimes, though, kernels with less symmetry produce an
interesting effect. Let's consider a kernel that blurs on one side (with
positive weights) and sharpens on the other (with negative weights). It will
produce a ridged or embossed effect. Here is an implementation that we can
add to filters.py :
This set of custom convolution filters is very basic. Indeed, it is more basic
than OpenCV's ready-made set of filters. However, with a bit of
experimentation, you should be able to write your own kernels that produce
a unique look.

--- Strana 81 ---
Modifying the application
Now that we have high-level functions and classes for several filters, it is trivial
to apply any of them to the captured frames in Cameo. Let's edit cameo.py and
add the lines that appear highlighted in bold in the following excerpts. First, we
need to add our filters module to our list of imports, as follows:
Now, we need to initialize any filter objects we will use. An example of this can
be seen in the following modified __init__ method:
Finally, we need to modify the run method in order to apply our choice of filters.
Refer to the following example:
Here, we have applied two effects: stroking the edges and emulating the colors of
a brand of photo film called Kodak Portra. Feel free to modify the code to apply
any filters you like.
For details about how to implement the Portra film emulation effect, refer to
Appendix A, Bending Color Space with a Curves Filter.
Here is a screenshot from Cameo with stroked edges and Portra-like colors:

--- Strana 82 ---
Figure 3.2: A screenshot from Cameo, with two filters applied: stroked
edges and Portra-like colors.
Now that we have sampled some of the visual effects that we can achieve with
simple filters, let's consider how we can use other simple functions for analytical
purposes – specifically, the detection of edges and shapes.

--- Strana 83 ---
Edge detection with Canny
OpenCV offers a handy function called Canny (after the algorithm's
inventor, John F. Canny), which is very popular not only because of its
effectiveness, but also because of the simplicity of its implementation in an
OpenCV program since it is a one-liner:
The result is a very clear identification of the edges:
Figure 3.3: Results of applying Canny edge detection.
The Canny edge detection algorithm is complex but also quite interesting. It
is a five-step process:
1. Denoise the image with a Gaussian filter.
2. Calculate the gradients.
3. Apply non-maximum suppression ( NMS ) on the edges. Basically,
this means that the algorithm selects the best edges from a set of

--- Strana 84 ---
overlapping edges. We'll discuss the concept of NMS in detail in
Chapter 7 , Building Custom Object Detectors .
4. Apply a double threshold to all the detected edges to eliminate any
false positives.
5. Analyze all the edges and their connection to each other to keep the
real edges and discard the weak ones.
After finding Canny edges, we can do further analysis of the edges in order
to determine whether they match a common shape, such as a line or a circle.
The Hough transform is one algorithm that uses Canny edges in this way.
We will experiment with it later in this chapter, in the Detecting lines,
circles, or other shapes section.
For now, we will examine other ways of analyzing shapes, not based on
edge detection but rather on the concept of finding a blob of similar pixels.

--- Strana 85 ---
Contour detection
A vital task in computer vision is contour detection. We want to detect contours or
outlines of subjects contained in an image or video frame, not only as an end in
itself but also as a step toward other operations. These operations are, namely,
computing bounding polygons, approximating shapes, and generally calculating
regions of interest (ROIs) . ROIs considerably simplify interaction with image
data because a rectangular region in NumPy is easily defined with an array slice.
We will be using contour detection and ROIs a lot when we explore the concepts
of object detection (including face detection) and object tracking in later chapters.
Let's familiarize ourselves with the contour detection API via an example:
First, we create an empty black image that is 200 x 200 pixels in size. Then, we
place a white square in the center of it by utilizing array's ability to assign values
on a slice.
Then, we threshold the image and call the findContours function. This function
has three parameters: the input image, the hierarchy type, and the contour
approximation method. The second parameter specifies the type of hierarchy tree
returned by the function. One of the supported values is cv2.RETR_TREE , which
tells the function to retrieve the entire hierarchy of external and internal contours.
These relationships may matter if we are searching for smaller objects (or smaller
regions) inside larger objects (or larger regions). If you only want to retrieve the
most external contours, use cv2.RETR_EXTERNAL . This may be a good choice in
cases where the objects appear on a plain background and we do not care about
finding objects within objects.
Referring back to the code sample, note that the findContours function returns
two elements: the contours and their hierarchy. We use the contours to draw green
outlines on the color version of the image. Finally, we display the image.
The result is a white square with its contour drawn in green – a spartan scene, but
effective in demonstrating the concept! Let's move on to more meaningful
examples.

--- Strana 86 ---
Bounding box, minimum area rectangle, and
minimum enclosing circle
Finding the contours of a square is a simple task; irregular, skewed, and rotated
shapes bring out the full potential of OpenCV's cv2.findContours function.
Let's take a look at the following image, which is an illustration of a mythical
object called Mjölnir or Thor’s Hammer:
Figure 3.4a: A drawing of Mjölnir, or Thor’s Hammer, a prominent
symbol in Norse mythology. We will apply contour detection to this
image.

--- Strana 87 ---
For many applications, we might want to find a simple geometric shape that
approximates the bounds of the subject. Three commonly used bounding shapes
are the bounding box, the minimum enclosing rectangle, and the enclosing circle.
(According to OpenCV’s terminology, a bounding box is an upright rectangle, but
a minimum enclosing rectangle may be rotated in order to fit the subject more
snugly.) The cv2.findContours function, in conjunction with a few other
OpenCV utilities, makes it very easy to find these bounding shapes. First, the
following code reads an image from a file, converts it into grayscale, applies a
threshold to the grayscale image, and finds the contours in the thresholded image:
Now, for each contour, we can find and draw the bounding box, the minimum
enclosing rectangle, and the minimum enclosing circle, as shown in the following
code:
Finally, we can use the following code to draw the contours and show the image
in a window until the user presses a key:
Note that contour detection is performed on a thresholded image, so color
information is already lost at this stage, but we draw on the original color image
and then show the results in color.
Let's go back and look more closely at the steps we performed in the preceding
for loop, where we process each detected contour. First, we calculate a simple
bounding box:
This is a pretty straightforward conversion of contour information into the (x, y)
coordinates, width, and height of the rectangle. Drawing this rectangle is an easy
task and can be done using the following code:
Next, we calculate the minimum-area rectangle enclosing the subject:
The mechanism being used here is particularly interesting: OpenCV does not
have a function to calculate the coordinates of the minimum rectangle vertices
directly from the contour information. Instead, we calculate the minimum
rectangle area, and then calculate the vertices of this rectangle. Note that the
calculated vertices are floats, but pixels are accessed with integers (you can't
access a portion of a pixel for the purposes of OpenCV's drawing functions), so
we need to perform this conversion. Next, we draw the box, which gives us the
perfect opportunity to introduce the cv2.drawContours function:

--- Strana 88 ---
This function – like all of OpenCV's drawing functions – modifies the original
image. Note that it takes an array of contours in its second parameter so that you
can draw a number of contours in a single operation. Therefore, if you have a
single set of points representing a contour polygon, you need to wrap these points
in an array, exactly like we did with our box in the preceding example. The third
parameter of this function specifies the index of the contours array that we want
to draw: a value of -1 will draw all contours; otherwise, a contour at the specified
index in the contours array (the second parameter) will be drawn.
Most drawing functions take the color of the drawing (as a BGR tuple) and its
thickness (in pixels) as the last two parameters.
The last bounding contour we're going to examine is the minimum enclosing
circle:
The only peculiarity of the cv2.minEnclosingCircle function is that it returns a
two-element tuple, of which the first element is a tuple itself, representing the
coordinates of the circle's center, and the second element is the radius of this
circle. After converting all these values into integers, drawing the circle is quite a
trivial operation.
When we apply the preceding code to the original image, the final result looks
like this:

--- Strana 89 ---
Figure 3.4b: Results of contour detection followed by three kinds of
enclosing shape detection: bounding box, minimum area rectangle, and
minimum enclosing circle.
This is a good result insofar as the circle and rectangles fit tightly around the
object. Obviously, though, the object is not circular or rectangular, so we could
achieve a tighter fit with various other shapes. Let's do that next.
Convex contours and the Douglas-Peucker algorithm
When working with contours, we may encounter subjects with diverse shapes,
including convex ones. A convex shape is one where there are no two points

--- Strana 90 ---
within this shape whose connecting line goes outside the perimeter of the shape
itself.
The first facility that OpenCV offers to calculate the approximate bounding
polygon of a shape is cv2.approxPolyDP . The DP in the function name stands
for the Douglas-Peucker algorithm. This function takes three parameters:
A contour.
An epsilon value representing the maximum discrepancy between the
original contour and the approximated polygon (the lower the value, the
closer the approximated value will be to the original contour).
A Boolean flag. If it is True , it signifies that the polygon is closed.
The epsilon value is of vital importance to obtain a useful contour, so let's
understand what it represents. Epsilon is the maximum difference between the
approximated polygon's perimeter and the original contour's perimeter. The
smaller this difference is, the more the approximated polygon will be similar to
the original contour.
You may ask yourself why we need an approximate polygon when we have a
contour that is already a precise representation. The answer to this is that a
polygon is a set of straight lines, and many computer vision tasks become simpler
if we can define polygons so that they delimit regions for further manipulation
and processing.
Now that we know what an epsilon is, we need to obtain contour perimeter
information as a reference value. This can be obtained with the cv2.arcLength
function of OpenCV:
Effectively, we're instructing OpenCV to calculate an approximated polygon
whose perimeter can only differ from the original contour by an epsilon ratio –
specifically, 1% of the original arc length.
OpenCV also offers a cv2.convexHull function for obtaining processed contour
information for convex shapes. This is a straightforward one-line expression:
Let's combine the original contour, approximated polygon contour, and the
convex hull into one image to observe the differences between them. To simplify
things, we will draw the contours on top of a black background so that the
original subject is not visible but its contours are:

--- Strana 91 ---
Figure 3.4c: Results of contour detection followed by context hull
detection and polygon approximation.
As you can see, the convex hull surrounds the entire subject, the approximated
polygon is the innermost polygon shape, and in between the two is the original
contour, mainly composed of arcs.
By combining all the preceding steps into one script that loads a file, finds
contours, approximates the contours as a polygon, finds a convex hull, and
displays a visualization, we have the following code:
Code like this works well on simple images, in which we have only one or a few
objects, and only a few colors that are easily separated by thresholds.

--- Strana 92 ---
Unfortunately, color thresholding and contour detection are less effective on
complex images that contain several objects or multicolored objects. For these
more challenging cases, we will have to look at more complex algorithms.

--- Strana 93 ---
Detecting lines, circles, and other
shapes
Detecting edges and finding contours are not only common and important tasks in
their own right; they also form the basis of other complex operations. Line and
shape detection walk hand-in-hand with edge and contour detection, so let's
examine how OpenCV implements these.
The theory behind line and shape detection has its foundation in a technique
called the Hough transform, invented by Richard Duda and Peter Hart, who
extended and generalized the work that was done by Paul Hough in the early
1960s. Let's take a look at OpenCV's API for Hough transforms.
Detecting lines
First of all, let's detect some lines. We can do this with either the HoughLines
function or the HoughLinesP function. The former uses the standard Hough
transform, while the latter uses the probabilistic Hough transform (hence the P in
the name). The probabilistic version is so-called because it only analyzes a subset
of the image's points and estimates the probability that these points all belong to
the same line. This implementation is an optimized version of the standard Hough
transform; it is less computationally intensive and executes faster. HoughLinesP
is implemented so that it returns the two endpoints of each detected line segment,
whereas HoughLines is implemented so that it returns a representation of each
line as a single point and an angle, without information about endpoints.
Let's take a look at a very simple example:
A crucial part of this simple script, as part of the HoughLines function call, is
setting the minimum line length (shorter lines will be discarded) and the
maximum line gap, which is the maximum size of a gap in a line before the two
segments start being considered as separate lines.
Also, note that the HoughLines function takes a single channel binary image,
which is processed through the Canny edge detection filter. Canny is not a strict

--- Strana 94 ---
requirement, but an image that has been denoised and only represents edges is the
ideal source for a Hough transform, so you will find this to be a common practice.
The parameters of HoughLinesP are as follows:
The binary image from Canny or another edge detection filter.
The resolution or step size to use when searching for lines. rho is the
positional step size in pixels, while theta is the rotational step size in
radians. For example, if we specify rho=1 and theta=np.pi/180.0, we
search for lines that are separated by as little as 1 pixel and 1 degree.
The threshold , which represents the threshold below which a line is
discarded. The Hough transform works with a system of bins and votes, with
each bin representing a line, so if a candidate line has at least the threshold
number of votes, it is retained; otherwise, it is discarded.
An optional argument, lines , which we do not use here and which is not
really useful in the function’s Python version. The lines argument can be
used to provide a list or array in which HoughLinesP will put the resulting
lines; otherwise, it will return a new list.
minLineLength and maxLineGap , which we mentioned previously.
The following screenshot shows the output of our line detection script, using an
image of a train platform as input:
Figure 3.5: Results of Hough line detection on an image of a train
platform.

--- Strana 95 ---
Among other things, the edge of the platform is detected as a line. Here, we begin
to get an idea of how a seemingly basic concept such as line detection can have
important practical applications.
Now, what about other shapes?
Detecting circles
OpenCV also has a function for detecting circles, called HoughCircles . It works
in a very similar fashion to HoughLines , but where minLineLength and
maxLineGap were the parameters used to discard or retain lines, HoughCircles
instead lets us specify a minimum distance between a circle's centers, as well as
minimum and maximum values for a circle's radius. Here is the obligatory
example:
Note that we do not call the Canny function here because, when we call
HoughCircles with the cv2.HOUGH_GRADIENT option, the latter function already
applies the Canny algorithm internally, using the value of param1 as the first
Canny threshold and half this value as the second Canny threshold. Also, with
cv2.HOUGH_GRADIENT , the value of param2 is a threshold for weeding out
overlapping circle detections; a higher value leads to fewer overlapping
detections.
Here is a visual representation of the result:

--- Strana 96 ---
Figure 3.6: Results of Hough circle detection on a stylized image of the
planets.
Detecting other shapes
OpenCV's implementations of the Hough transform are limited to detecting lines
and circles; however, we already implicitly explored shape detection in general
when we talked about approxPolyDP . This function allows for the
approximation of polygons, so if your image contains polygons, they will be
accurately detected through the combined use of cv2.findContours and
cv2.approxPolyDP .

--- Strana 97 ---
Summary
At this point, you should have gained a good understanding of color
models, the Fourier transform, and several kinds of filters that have been
made available by OpenCV to process images.
You should also be proficient in detecting edges, lines, circles, and shapes
in general. Additionally, you should be able to find contours and exploit the
information they provide about the subjects contained in an image. These
concepts are complementary to the next chapter's topics – namely, the
segmentation of an image according to depth and estimating the distance of
a subject in an image.

--- Strana 98 ---
Join our book community on
Discord
https://discord.gg/djGjeMECxw
Computer vision makes many futuristic-sounding tasks a reality. Two such
tasks are face detection (locating faces in an image) and face recognition
(identifying a face as belonging to a specific person). OpenCV implements
several algorithms for face detection and recognition. These have
applications in all sorts of real-world contexts, from security to
entertainment.
This chapter introduces some of OpenCV's face detection and recognition
functionality, along with data files that define particular types of trackable
objects. Specifically, in this chapter, we’ll look at Haar cascade classifiers,
which analyze the contrast between adjacent image regions to determine
whether or not a given image or sub-image matches a known type. We
consider how to combine multiple Haar cascade classifiers in a hierarchy so
that one classifier identifies a parent region (for our purposes, a face) and
other classifiers identify child regions (such as eyes).
We also take a detour into the humble but important subject of rectangles.
By drawing, copying, and resizing rectangular image regions, we can
perform simple manipulations on image regions that we are tracking.

--- Strana 99 ---
We will cover the following topics:
Understanding Haar cascades
Finding the pre-trained Haar cascades that come with OpenCV. These
include several face detectors
Using Haar cascades to detect faces in still images and videos
Gathering images to train and test a face recognizer
Using several different face recognition algorithms: Eigenfaces ,
Fisherfaces , and Local Binary Pattern Histograms ( LBPHs )
Copying rectangular regions from one image to another, with or
without a mask
Using a depth camera to distinguish between a face and the
background based on depth
Swapping two people's faces in an interactive application
While this chapter focuses on classic approaches to face detection and
recognition, we will go on to explore advanced new models by using
OpenCV with a variety of other libraries in Chapter 11 , Neutral
Networks with OpenCV – an Introduction .
By the end of this chapter, we will have integrated face tracking and
rectangle manipulations into Cameo, the interactive application that we
have developed in previous chapters. Finally, we will have some face-to-
face interaction!

--- Strana 100 ---
Technical requirements
This chapter uses Python, OpenCV, and NumPy. As part of OpenCV, it uses
the optional opencv_contrib modules, which include functionality for face
recognition. Some parts of this chapter use OpenCV's optional support for
OpenNI 2 to capture images from depth cameras. Please refer back to
Chapter 1 , Setting Up OpenCV , for installation instructions.
The complete code for this chapter can be found in this book's GitHub
repository, https://github.com/PacktPublishing/Learning-OpenCV-5-
Computer-Vision-with-Python-Fourth-Edition , in the chapter05 folder.
Sample images are in the repository images folder.
A subset of the chapter’s sample code can be edited and run interactively in
Google Colab at
https://colab.research.google.com/github/PacktPublishing/Learning-
OpenCV-5-Computer-Vision-with-Python-Fourth-
Edition/blob/main/chapter05/chapter05.ipynb .

--- Strana 101 ---
Conceptualizing Haar cascades
When we talk about classifying objects and tracking their location, what
exactly are we hoping to pinpoint? What constitutes a recognizable part of
an object?
Photographic images, even from a webcam, may contain a lot of detail for
our (human) viewing pleasure. However, image detail tends to be unstable
with respect to variations in lighting, viewing angle, viewing distance,
camera shake, and digital noise. Moreover, even real differences in physical
detail might not interest us for classification. Joseph Howse, one of this
book's authors, was taught in school that no two snowflakes look alike
under a microscope. Fortunately, as a Canadian child, he had already
learned how to recognize snowflakes without a microscope, as the
similarities are more obvious in bulk.
Hence, having some means of abstracting image detail is useful in
producing stable classification and tracking results. The abstractions are
called features , which are said to be extracted from the image data. There
should be far fewer features than pixels, though any pixel might influence
multiple features. A set of features is represented as a vector (conceptually,
a set of coordinates in a multidimensional space), and the level of similarity
between two images can be evaluated based on some measure of the
distance between the images' corresponding feature vectors.
Later, in Chapter 6 , Retrieving Images and Searching Using Image
Descriptors , we will explore several kinds of features, as well as
advanced ways of describing and matching sets of features.
Haar-like features are one type of feature that is often applied to real-time
face detection. They were first used for this purpose in the paper Robust
Real-Time Face Detection , by Paul Viola and Michael Jones ( International
Journal of Computer Vision 57(2), 137–154, Kluwer Academic Publishers,
2001 ). An electronic version of this paper is available at
http://comp3204.ecs.soton.ac.uk/cw/viola04ijcv.pdf .

--- Strana 102 ---
Each Haar-like feature describes the pattern of contrast among adjacent
image regions. For example, edges, vertices, and thin lines each generate a
kind of feature. Some features are distinctive in the sense that they typically
occur in a certain class of object (such as a face) but not in other objects.
These distinctive features can be organized into a hierarchy, called a
cascade , in which the highest layers contain features of greatest
distinctiveness, enabling a classifier to quickly reject subjects that lack
these features. If a subject is a good match for the higher-layer features,
then the classifier considers the lower-layer features too in order to weed
out more false positives.
For any given subject, the features may vary depending on the scale of the
image and the size of the neighborhood (the region of nearby pixels) in
which contrast is being evaluated. The neighborhood’s size is called the
window size . To make a Haar cascade classifier scale-invariant or, in
other words, robust to changes in scale, the window size is kept constant but
images are rescaled a number of times; hence, at some level of rescaling,
the size of an object (such as a face) may match the window size. Together,
the original image and the rescaled images are called an image pyramid ,
and each successive level in this pyramid is a smaller rescaled image.
OpenCV provides a scale-invariant classifier that can load a Haar cascade
from an XML file in a particular format. Internally, this classifier converts
any given image into an image pyramid.
Haar cascades, as implemented in OpenCV, are not robust to changes in
rotation or perspective. For example, an upside-down face is not considered
similar to an upright face and a face viewed in profile is not considered
similar to a face viewed from the front. A more complex and resource-
intensive implementation could improve a Haar cascade’s robustness to
rotation by considering multiple transformations of images as well as
multiple window sizes. However, we will confine ourselves to the
implementation in OpenCV.

--- Strana 103 ---
Getting Haar cascade data
Your installation of OpenCV 5 should contain a subfolder called data . The
path to this folder is stored in an OpenCV variable called
cv2.data.haarcascades .
The data folder contains XML files that can be loaded by an OpenCV class
called cv2.CascadeClassifier . An instance of this class interprets a
given XML file as a Haar cascade, which provides a detection model for a
type of object such as a face. cv2.CascadeClassifier can detect this type
of object in any image. As usual, we could obtain a still image from a file,
or we could obtain a series of frames from a video file or a video camera.
From the data folder, we will use the following cascade files:
As their names suggest, these cascades are for detecting faces and eyes.
They require a frontal, upright view of the subject. We will use them later
when building a face detector.
If you are curious about how these cascade files are generated, you can
find more information in Joseph Howse's book, OpenCV 4 for Secret
Agents (Packt Publishing, 2019), specifically in Chapter 3 , Training a
Smart Alarm to Recognize the Villain and His Cat . With a lot of
patience and a reasonably powerful computer, you can make your own
cascades and train them for various types of objects.

--- Strana 104 ---
Using OpenCV to perform face
detection
With cv2.CascadeClassifier , it makes little difference whether we perform
face detection on a still image or a video feed. The latter is just a sequential
version of the former: face detection on a video is simply face detection applied
to each frame. Naturally, with more advanced techniques, it would be possible to
track a detected face continuously across multiple frames and determine that the
face is the same one in each frame. However, it is good to know that a basic
sequential approach also works.
Let's go ahead and detect some faces.
Performing face detection on a still image
The first and most basic way to perform face detection is to load an image and
detect faces in it. To make the result visually meaningful, we will draw rectangles
around faces in the original image. Remembering that the face detector is
designed for upright, frontal faces, we will use an image of a row of people,
specifically woodcutters, standing shoulder to shoulder and facing the
photographer or viewer.
Let's go ahead and create the following basic script to perform face detection:
Let's walk through the preceding code in small steps. First, we use the obligatory
cv2 import that you will find in every script in this book. Then, we declare a
face_cascade variable, which is a CascadeClassifier object that loads a
cascade for face detection:
We then load our image file with cv2.imread and convert it into grayscale
because CascadeClassifier , like many of OpenCV’s classifiers, expects
grayscale images. (If we try to use a color image, CascadeClassifier will
internally convert it to grayscale anyway.) The next step,
face_cascade.detectMultiScale , is where we perform the actual face
detection:

--- Strana 105 ---
The parameters of detectMultiScale include scaleFactor and minNeighbors .
The scaleFactor argument, which should be greater than 1.0, determines the
downscaling ratio of the image at each iteration of the face detection process. As
we discussed earlier in the Conceptualizing Haar cascades section, this
downscaling is intended to achieve scale invariance by matching various faces to
the window size. The minNeighbors argument is the minimum number of
overlapping detections that are required in order to retain a detection result.
Normally, we expect that a face may be detected in multiple overlapping
windows, and a greater number of overlapping detections makes us more
confident that the detected face is truly a face.
The value returned from the detection operation is a list of tuples that represent
the face rectangles. OpenCV's cv2.rectangle function allows us to draw
rectangles at the specified coordinates. x and y represent the left and top
coordinates, while w and h represent the width and height of the face rectangle.
We draw cyan rectangles around all of the faces we find by looping through the
faces variable, making sure we use the original image for drawing, not the gray
version:
Lastly, we call cv2.imshow to display the resulting processed image and we call
cv2.imwrite to save it. As usual, to prevent the image window from closing
automatically, we insert a call to waitKey , which returns when the user presses
any key:
And there we go, three members of the band of woodcutters have been detected
in our image, as shown in the following screenshot:

--- Strana 106 ---
Figure 5.1: Face detection results of a photograph of woodcutters
(Image credit: Prokudin-Gorsky)
The photograph in this example is the work of Sergey Prokudin-Gorsky
(1863-1944), a pioneer of color photography. Tsar Nicholas II sponsored
Prokudin-Gorsky to photograph people and places throughout the Russian
Empire as a vast documentary project. Prokudin-Gorsky photographed these
woodcutters near the Svir river, in northwestern Russia, in 1909.
Here, we have no false positive detections; all three rectangles really are
woodcutters’ faces. However, we do have two false negatives (woodcutters whose
faces were not detected). Try adjusting the parameters of
face_cascade.detectMultiScale to see how the results change. Then, let’s
proceed to a more interactive example.

--- Strana 107 ---
Performing face detection on a video
We now understand how to perform face detection on a still image. As mentioned
previously, we can repeat the process of face detection on each frame of a video
(be it a camera feed or a pre-recorded video file).
The next script will open a camera feed, read a frame, examine that frame for
faces, and scan for eyes within the detected faces. Finally, it will draw blue
rectangles around the faces and green rectangles around the eyes. Here is the
script in its entirety:
Let's break up the preceding sample into smaller, more digestible chunks:
1. As usual, we import the cv2 module. After that, we initialize two
CascadeClassifier objects, one for faces and another for eyes:
1. As in most of our interactive scripts, we open a camera feed and start
iterating over frames. We continue until the user presses any key. Whenever
we successfully capture a frame, we convert it into grayscale as our first step
in processing it:
1. We detect faces with the detectMultiScale method of our face detector. As
we have previously done, we use the scaleFactor and minNeighbors
arguments. We also use the minSize argument to specify a minimum size of
a face, specifically 120x120. No attempt will be made to detect faces smaller
than this. (Assuming that our user is sitting close to the camera, it is safe to
say that the user's face will be larger than 120x120 pixels.) Here is the call to
detectMultiScale :
1. We iterate over the rectangles of the detected faces. We draw a blue border
around each rectangle in the original color image. Then, within the same
rectangular region of the grayscale image, we perform eye detection:
The eye detector is a bit less accurate than the face detector. You might see
shadows, parts of the frames of glasses, or other regions of the face falsely
detected as eyes. To improve the results, you could try defining roi_gray as
a smaller region of the face, since we can make a good guess about the eyes'
location in an upright face. You could also try using a maxSize argument to
avoid false positives that are too large to be eyes. Also, you could adjust
minSize and maxSize so that the dimensions are proportional to w and h ,

--- Strana 108 ---
the size of the detected face. As an exercise, feel free to experiment with
changes to these and other parameters.
1. We loop through the resulting eye rectangles and draw green outlines around
them:
1. Finally, we show the resulting frame in the window:
Run the script. If our detectors produce accurate results, and if any face is within
the field of view of the camera, you should see a blue rectangle around the face
and a green rectangle around each eye, as shown in this screenshot:
Figure 5.2: The resulting detection of a face and eyes in a photograph
Experiment with this script to see how the face and eye detectors perform under
various conditions. Try a brighter or darker room. If you wear glasses, try
removing them. Try various people's faces and various expressions. Adjust the
detection parameters in the script to see how they affect the results. When you are
satisfied, let's consider what else we can do with faces in OpenCV.

--- Strana 109 ---
Performing face recognition
Detecting faces is a fantastic feature of OpenCV and one that constitutes the basis
for a more advanced operation: face recognition. What is face recognition? It is
the ability of a program, given an image or a video feed containing a person's
face, to identify that person. One of the ways to achieve this (and the approach
adopted by OpenCV) is to train the program by feeding it a set of classified
pictures (a facial database) and perform recognition based on the features of those
pictures.
Another important feature of OpenCV's face recognition module is that each
recognition has a confidence score, which allows us to set thresholds in real-life
applications to limit the incidence of false identifications.
Let's start from the very beginning; to perform face recognition, we need faces to
recognize. We fulfill this requirement in two ways: supply the images ourselves
or obtain freely available face databases. A large directory of face databases is
available online at http://www.face-rec.org/databases/ . Here are a few notable
examples from the directory:
Yale Face Database (Yalefaces): http://vision.ucsd.edu/content/yale-face-
database
Extended Yale Face Database B: http://vision.ucsd.edu/content/extended-
yale-face-database-b-b
Database of Faces (from AT&T Laboratories Cambridge): https://cam-
orl.co.uk/facedatabase.html
If we trained a face recognizer on these samples, we would then have to run face
recognition on an image that contains the face of one of the sampled people. This
process might be educational, but perhaps not as satisfying as providing images
of our own. You probably had the same thought that many computer vision
learners have had: I wonder if I can write a program that recognizes my face with
a certain degree of confidence. Indeed, you can and soon you will!
Generating the data for face recognition

--- Strana 110 ---
Let's go ahead and write a script that will generate those images for us. A few
images containing different expressions are all that we need, but it is preferable
that the training images are square and are all the same size. Our sample script
uses a size of 200x200, but most freely available datasets have smaller images
than this.
Here is the script itself:
Here, we are generating sample images by building on our newfound knowledge
of how to detect a face in a video feed. We are detecting a face, cropping that
region of the grayscale-converted frame, resizing it to be 200x200 pixels, and
saving it as a PGM file with a name in a particular folder (in this case, jm , one of
the authors’ initials; you can use your own initials). Like many of our windowed
applications, this one runs until the user presses any key.
The count variable is present because we needed progressive names for the
images. Run the script for a few seconds, change your facial expression a few
times, and check the destination folder you specified in the script. You will find a
number of images of your face, grayed, resized, and named with the format
<count>.pgm .
Modify the output_folder variable to make it match your name. For example,
you might choose '../data/at/my_name' . Run the script, wait for it to detect
your face in a number of frames (say, 20 or more), and then press any key to quit.
Now, modify the output_folder variable again to make it match the name of a
friend whom you also want to recognize. For example, you might choose
'../data/at/name_of_my_friend' . Do not change the base part of the folder
(in this case, '../data/at' ) because later, in the Loading the training data for
face recognition section, we will write code that loads the training images from
all of the subfolders of this base folder. Ask your friend to sit in front of the
camera, run the script again, let it detect your friend's face in a number of frames,
and then quit. Repeat this process for any additional people you might want to
recognize.
Let's now move on to try and recognize the user's face in a video feed. This
should be fun!
Choosing a face recognition algorithm

--- Strana 111 ---
OpenCV 5 implements three different algorithms for recognizing faces:
Eigenfaces , Fisherfaces , and Local Binary Pattern Histograms ( LBPHs ).
Eigenfaces and Fisherfaces are derived from a more general-purpose algorithm
called Principal Component Analysis ( PCA ). For a detailed description of the
algorithms, refer to the following links:
PCA : A Tutorial on Principal Component Analysis (2013), by Jonathon
Shlens, is available at http://arxiv.org/pdf/1404.1100v1.pdf . This algorithm
was invented in 1901 by Karl Pearson, and the original paper, On Lines and
Planes of Closest Fit to Systems of Points in Space , is available at
http://pca.narod.ru/pearson1901.pdf .
Eigenfaces : The paper Eigenfaces for Recognition (1991), by Matthew Turk
and Alex Pentland, is available at
http://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~mturk/Papers/jcn.pdf .
Fisherfaces : The seminal paper The Use of Multiple Measurements in
Taxonomic Problems (1936), by R. A. Fisher, is available at
http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1469-1809.1936.tb02137.x/pdf .
Local Binary Pattern : The first paper describing this algorithm is
Performance evaluation of texture measures with classification based on
Kullback discrimination of distributions (1994), by T. Ojala, M. Pietikainen,
and D. Harwood. It is available at
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/576366 .
For this book's purposes, let's just take a high-level overview of the algorithms.
First and foremost, they all follow a similar process; they take a set of classified
observations (our face database, containing numerous samples per individual),
train a model based on it, perform an analysis of face images (which may be face
regions that we detected in an image or video), and determine two things: the
subject's identity and a measure of confidence that this identification is correct.
The latter is commonly known as the confidence score .
Eigenfaces performs PCA, which identifies principal components of a certain set
of observations (again, your face database), calculates the divergence of the
current observation (the face being detected in an image or frame) compared to
the dataset, and produces a value. The smaller the value, the smaller the
difference between the face database and the detected face; hence, a value of 0 is
an exact match.
Fisherfaces also derives from PCA and evolves the concept, applying more
complex logic. While computationally more intensive, it tends to yield more

--- Strana 112 ---
accurate results than Eigenfaces.
LBPH instead divides a detected face into small cells and, for each cell, builds a
histogram that describes whether the brightness of the image is increasing when
comparing neighboring pixels in a given direction. This cell's histogram can be
compared to the histogram of the corresponding cell in the model, producing a
measure of similarity. Of the face recognizers in OpenCV, the implementation of
LBPH is the only one that allows the model sample faces and the detected faces
to be of a different shape and size. Hence, it is a convenient option, and the
authors of this book find that its accuracy compares favorably to the other two
options.
Despite the algorithms’ differences, OpenCV provides a similar interface for all
three, as we shall soon see.
Loading the training data for face recognition
Regardless of our choice of face recognition algorithm, we can load the training
images in the same way. Earlier, in the Generating the data for face recognition
section, we generated training images and saved them in folders that were
organized according to people's names or initials. For example, the following
folder structure could contain sample face images of this book's authors, Joseph
Howse ( jh ) and Joe Minichino ( jm ):
Let's write a script that loads these images and labels them in a way that
OpenCV's face recognizers will understand. To work with the filesystem and the
data, we will use the Python standard library's os module, as well as the cv2 and
numpy modules. Let's create a script that starts with the following import
statements:
Let's add the following read_images function, which walks through a directory's
subdirectories, loads the images and shows each of them for user information
purposes, resizes them to a specified size, and puts the resized images in a list.
The order of this list has no significance in itself but, at the same time, our
function builds two corresponding lists that describe the images: first, a
corresponding list of people's names or initials (based on the subfolder names),
and second, a corresponding list of labels or numeric IDs associated with the
loaded images. For example, jh could be a name and 0 could be the label for all
images that were loaded from the jh subfolder. Finally, the function converts the
lists of images and labels into NumPy arrays, and it returns three variables: the

--- Strana 113 ---
list of names, the NumPy array of images, and the NumPy array of labels. Here is
the function's implementation:
Let's call our read_images function by adding code such as the following:
Edit the path_to_training_images variable in the preceding code block to
ensure that it matches the base folder of the output_folder variables you
defined earlier in the code for the section Generating the data for face
recognition .
So far, we have training data in a useful format but we have not yet created a face
recognizer or performed any training. We will do so in the next section, where we
continue the implementation of the same script.
Performing face recognition with Eigenfaces
Now that we have an array of training images and an array of their labels, we can
create and train a face recognizer with just two more lines of code:
What have we done here? We created the Eigenfaces face recognizer with
OpenCV's cv2.EigenFaceRecognizer_create function, and we trained the
recognizer by passing the arrays of images and labels (numeric IDs). Optionally,
we could have passed two arguments to cv2.EigenFaceRecognizer_create :
num_components : This is the number of components to keep for the PCA.
threshold : This is a floating-point value specifying a confidence threshold.
Faces with a confidence score below the threshold will be discarded. By
default, the threshold is the maximum floating-point value so that no faces
are discarded.
Having trained this model, we could save it to a file using code such as
model.write('my_model.xml') . Later (for example, in another script), we
could skip the training step and just load the pre-training model from the file
using code such as model.read('my_model.xml') . However, for the sake
of our simple demo, we will just train and test the model in one script
without saving the model to a file.
To test this recognizer, let's use a face detector and a video feed from a camera.
As we have done in previous scripts, we can use the following line of code to
initialize the face detector:

--- Strana 114 ---
The following code initializes the camera feed, iterates over frames (until the user
presses any key), and performs face detection and recognition on each frame:
Let's walk through the most important functionality of the preceding block of
code. For each detected face, we convert and resize it so that we have a grayscale
version that matches the expected size (in this case, 200x200 pixels as defined by
the training_image_size variable in the previous section, Loading the training
data for face recognition ). Then, we pass the resized, grayscale face to the face
recognizer's predict function. This returns a label and confidence score. We
look up the person's name corresponding to the numeric label of that face.
(Remember that we created the names array in the previous section, Loading the
training data for face recognition .) We draw the name and confidence score in
blue text above the recognized face. After iterating over all detected faces, we
display the annotated image.
We have taken a simple approach to face detection and recognition, and it
serves the purpose of enabling you to have a basic application running and
understand the process of face recognition in OpenCV 5. To improve upon
this approach and make it more robust, you could take further steps such as
correctly aligning and rotating detected faces so that the accuracy of the
recognition is maximized.
When you run the script, you should see something similar to the following
screenshot:

--- Strana 115 ---
Figure 5.3: A face recognition result using live camera input
Next, let's consider how we would adapt these script to replace Eigenfaces with
another face recognition algorithm.
Performing face recognition with Fisherfaces
What about Fisherfaces? The process does not change much; we simply need to
instantiate a different algorithm. With default arguments, the declaration of our
model variable would look like this:
cv2.face.FisherFaceRecognizer_create takes the same two optional
arguments as cv2.createEigenFaceRecognizer_create : the number of
principal components to keep and the confidence threshold. As you might guess,
these types of *_create functions are quite common in OpenCV for situations
where several different algorithms share a common interface. Let’s look at one
more example.
Performing face recognition with LBPH
For the LBPH algorithm, again, the process is similar. However, the algorithm
factory takes the following optional parameters (in order):

--- Strana 116 ---
radius : The pixel distance between the neighbors that are used to calculate
a cell's histogram (by default, 1)
neighbors : The number of neighbors used to calculate a cell's histogram
(by default, 8)
grid_x : The number of cells into which the face is divided horizontally (by
default, 8)
grid_y : The number of cells into which the face is divided vertically (by
default, 8)
confidence : The confidence threshold (by default, the highest possible
floating-point value so that no results are discarded)
With default arguments, the model declaration would look like this:
Note that, with LBPH, we do not need to resize images as the division into
grids allows a comparison of patterns identified in each cell.
Having looked at the available face recognition algorithms, let’s now consider
how to evaluate a recognition result.
Discarding results based on the confidence score
The predict method returns a tuple, in which the first element is the label of the
recognized individual and the second is the confidence score. All algorithms
come with the option of setting a confidence score threshold, which measures the
distance of the recognized face from the original model; therefore, a score of 0
signifies an exact match.
There may be cases in which you would rather retain all recognitions and then
apply further processing, so you can come up with your own algorithms to
estimate the confidence score of a recognition. For example, if you are trying to
identify people in a video, you may want to analyze the confidence score in
subsequent frames to establish whether the recognition was successful or not. In
this case, you can inspect the confidence score obtained by the algorithm and
draw your own conclusions.
The typical range of the confidence score depends on the algorithm.
Eigenfaces and Fisherfaces produce values (roughly) in the range of 0 to
20,000, with any score below 4,000-5,000 being a quite confident
recognition. For LBPH, a good recognition scores (roughly) below 50, and
any value above 80 is considered a poor confidence score.

--- Strana 117 ---
A normal custom approach would be to hold off drawing a rectangle around a
recognized face until we have a number of frames with a good confidence score
(where “good” is an arbitrary threshold we must choose, based on our algorithm
and use case), but you have total freedom to use OpenCV's face recognition
module to tailor your application to your needs. Next, let’s see how face detection
and recognition work in a specialized use case.

--- Strana 118 ---
Swapping faces in infrared
Face detection and recognition are not limited to the visible spectrum of light.
With a Near-Infrared ( NIR ) camera and NIR light source, face detection and
recognition are possible even when a scene appears totally dark to the human eye.
This capability is quite useful in security and surveillance applications.
We studied the basic usage of NIR depth cameras, such as the Asus Xtion PRO,
in Chapter 4 , Depth Estimation and Segmentation . We extended the object-
oriented code of our interactive application, Cameo. We captured frames from a
depth camera. Based on depth, we segmented each frame into a main layer (such
as the user's face) and other layers. We painted the other layers black. This
achieved the effect of hiding the background so that only the main layer (the
user's face) appeared on-screen in the interactive video feed.
Now, let's modify Cameo to do something that exercises our previous skills in
depth segmentation and our new skills in face detection. Let's detect faces and,
when we detect at least two faces in a frame, let's swap the faces so that one
person's head appears atop another person's body. Rather than copying all pixels
in a detected face rectangle, we will only copy the pixels that are part of the main
depth layer for that rectangle. This should achieve the effect of swapping faces
but not the background pixels surrounding the faces.
Once the changes are complete, Cameo will be able to produce output such as the
following screenshot:

--- Strana 119 ---
Figure 5.4: The result of swapping two faces in a frame from an
infrared camera.
Here, we see the face of Joseph Howse swapped with the face of Janet Howse, his
mother. Although Cameo is copying pixels from rectangular regions (and this is
clearly visible at the bottom of the swapped regions, in the foreground), some of
the background pixels within the rectangles are masked based on depth and thus
are not swapped, so we do not see rectangular edges everywhere.
You can find all of the relevant changes to the Cameo source code in this book's
repository at https://github.com/PacktPublishing/Learning-OpenCV-5-Computer-
Vision-with-Python-Fourth-Edition , specifically in the chapter05/cameo folder.
For brevity, we will not discuss all of the changes here in this book, but we will
cover some of the highlights in the next two subsections, Modifying the
application's loop and Masking a copy operation .
Modifying the application's loop

--- Strana 120 ---
To support face swapping, the Cameo project has two new modules called rects
and trackers . The rects module contains functions for copying and swapping
rectangles, with an optional mask to limit the copy or swap operation to particular
pixels. The trackers module contains a class called FaceTracker , which adapts
OpenCV's face detection functionality to an object-oriented style of
programming.
As we have covered OpenCV's face detection functionality earlier in this chapter,
and we have demonstrated an object-oriented programming style in previous
chapters, we will not go into the FaceTracker implementation here. Instead, you
may look at it in this book's repository.
Let's open cameo.py so that we can walk through the overall changes to the
application:
1. Near the top of the file, we need to import our new modules, as
highlightedhighlighted in the following code block:
1. Now, let's turn our attention to changes in the __init__ method of our
CameoDepth class. Our updated application uses an instance of FaceTracker
. As part of its functionality, FaceTracker can draw rectangles around
detected faces. Let's give Cameo's user the option to enable or disable the
drawing of face rectangles. We will keep track of the currently selected
option via a Boolean variable. The following code block highlights the
necessary changes to initialize the FaceTracker object and the Boolean
variable:
We make use of the FaceTracker object in the run method of CameoDepth ,
which contains the application's main loop that captures and processes frames.
Every time we successfully capture a frame, we call methods of FaceTracker to
update the face detection result and get the latest detected faces. Then, for each
face, we create a mask based on the depth camera's disparity map. (Previously, in
Chapter 4 , Depth Estimation and Segmentation , we created such a mask for the
entire image instead of a mask for each face rectangle.)
1. Then, we call a function, rects.swapRects , to perform a masked swap of
the face rectangles. (We will look at the implementation of swapRects a
little later, in the Masking a copy operation section.) Depending on the
currently selected option, we might tell FaceTracker to draw rectangles
around the faces. All of the relevant changes are highlighted in the
following code block:

--- Strana 121 ---
1. Finally, let's modify the onKeypress method so that the user can hit the X
key to start or stop displaying rectangles around detected faces. Again, the
relevant changes are highlighted in the following code block:
Next, let's look at the implementation of the rects module that we imported
earlier in this section.
Masking a copy operation
The rects module is implemented in rects.py . We already saw a call to the
rects.swapRects function in the previous section. However, before we consider
the implementation of swapRects , we first need a more basic copyRect
function.
As far back as Chapter 2 , Handling Files, Cameras, and GUIs , we learned how
to copy data from one rectangular region of interest ( ROI ) to another using
NumPy's slicing syntax. Outside the ROIs, the source and destination images
were unaffected. Now, we want to apply further limits to this copy operation. We
want to use a given mask that has the same dimensions as the source rectangle.
We shall copy only those pixels in the source rectangle where the mask's value is
not zero. Other pixels shall retain their old values from the destination image.
This logic, with an array of conditions and two arrays of possible output values,
can be expressed concisely with the numpy.where function.
With this approach in mind, let's consider our copyRect function. As arguments,
it takes a source and destination image, a source and destination rectangle, and a
mask. The latter may be None , in which case, we simply resize the content of the
source rectangle to match the destination rectangle and then assign the resulting
resized content to the destination rectangle. Otherwise, we next ensure that the
mask and the images have the same number of channels. We assume that the
mask has one channel but the images may have three channels (BGR). We can
add duplicate channels to mask using the repeat and reshape methods of
numpy.array . Finally, we perform the copy operation using numpy.where . The
complete implementation is as follows:
We also need to define a swapRects function, which uses copyRect to perform a
circular swap of a list of rectangular regions. swapRects has a masks argument,
which is a list of masks whose elements are passed to the respective copyRect

--- Strana 122 ---
calls. If the value of the masks argument is None , we pass None to every
copyRect call. The following code shows the full implementation of swapRects :
Note that the mask argument in copyRect and the masks argument in swapRects
both have a default value of None . If no mask is specified, these functions copy
or swap the entire contents of the rectangle or rectangles.

--- Strana 123 ---
Summary
By now, you should have a good understanding of how face detection and
face recognition work and how to implement them in Python and OpenCV
5.
The accuracy of detection and recognition algorithms heavily depends on
the quality of the training data, so make sure you provide your applications
with a large number of training images covering a variety of expressions,
poses, and lighting conditions. Later in this book, in Chapter 11 , Neutral
Networks with OpenCV – an Introduction , we will look at how to use
several robust, pre-trained face detection models that build atop advanced
algorithms and large sets of training data.
As human beings, we might be predisposed to think that human faces are
particularly recognizable. We might even be overconfident in our own face
recognition abilities. However, in computer vision, there is nothing very
special about human faces, and we can just as readily use algorithms to find
and identify other things. We will begin to do so next in Chapter 6 ,
Retrieving Images and Searching Using Image Descriptors .

--- Strana 124 ---
Join our book community on
Discord
https://discord.gg/djGjeMECxw
Similar to the human eyes and brain, OpenCV can detect the main features
of an image and extract them into so-called image descriptors. These
features can then be used as a database, enabling image-based searches.
Moreover, we can use key points to stitch images together and compose a
bigger image. (Think of putting together many pictures to form a 360°
panorama.)
This chapter will show you how to detect the features of an image with
OpenCV and make use of them to match and search images. Over the
course of this chapter, we will take sample images and detect their main
features, and then try to find a region of another image that matches the
sample image. We will also find the homography or spatial relationship
between a sample image and a matching region of another image.
More specifically, we will cover the following tasks:
Detecting keypoints and extracting local descriptors around the
keypoints using any of the following algorithms: Harris corners ,
SIFT , SURF , or ORB

--- Strana 125 ---
Matching keypoints using brute-force algorithms or the FLANN
algorithm
Filtering out bad matches using KNN and the ratio test
Finding the homography between two sets of matching keypoints
Searching a set of images to determine which one contains the best
match for a reference image
We will finish this chapter by building a proof-of-concept forensic
application. Given a reference image of a tattoo, we will search for a set of
images of people in order to find a person with a matching tattoo.

--- Strana 126 ---
Technical requirements
This chapter uses Python, OpenCV, and NumPy. In regards to OpenCV, we
use the optional opencv_contrib modules, which include additional
algorithms for keypoint detection and matching. To enable the SURF
algorithm (whichis patented and not free for commercial use), we must
configure the opencv_contrib modules with the OPENCV_ENABLE_NONFREE
flag in CMake. Please refer to Chapter 1 , Setting Up OpenCV , for
installation instructions. Additionally, if you have not already installed
Matplotlib, install it by running $ pip install matplotlib (or $ pip3
install matplotlib , depending on your environment).
The complete code for this chapter can be found in this book's GitHub
repository, https://github.com/PacktPublishing/Learning-OpenCV-5-
Computer-Vision-with-Python-Fourth-Edition , in the chapter06 folder.
The sample images can be found in the images folder.
A subset of the chapter’s sample code can be edited and run interactively in
Google Colab at
https://colab.research.google.com/github/PacktPublishing/Learning-
OpenCV-5-Computer-Vision-with-Python-Fourth-
Edition/blob/main/chapter06/chapter06.ipynb .

--- Strana 127 ---
Understanding types of feature
detection and matching
A number of algorithms can be used to detect and describe features, and we
will explore several of them in this section. The most commonly used
feature detection and descriptor extraction algorithms in OpenCV are as
follows:
Harris : This algorithm is useful for detecting corners.
SIFT : This algorithm is useful for detecting blobs.
SURF : This algorithm is useful for detecting blobs.
FAST : This algorithm is useful for detecting corners.
BRIEF : This algorithm is useful for detecting blobs.
ORB : This algorithm stands for Oriented FAST and Rotated
BRIEF . It is useful for detecting a combination of corners and blobs.
Matching features can be performed with the following methods:
Brute-force matching
FLANN-based matching
Spatial verification can then be performed with homography.
We have just introduced a lot of new terminology and algorithms. Now, we
will go over their basic definitions.
Defining features
What is a feature, exactly? Why is a particular area of an image classifiable
as a feature, while others are not? Broadly speaking, a feature is an area of
interest in the image that is unique or easily recognizable. Corners and
regions with a high density of textural detail are good features, while
patterns that repeat themselves a lot and low-density regions (such as a blue
sky) are not. Edges are good features as they tend to divide two regions

--- Strana 128 ---
with abrupt changes in the intensity (gray or color) values of an image. A
blob (a region of an image that greatly differs from its surrounding areas) is
also an interesting feature.
Most feature detection algorithms revolve around the identification of
corners, edges, and blobs, with some also focusing on the concept of a
ridge , which you can conceptualize as the axis of symmetry of an
elongated object. (Think, for example, about identifying a road in an
image.)
Some algorithms are better at identifying and extracting features of a certain
type, so it is important to know what your input image is so that you can
utilize the best tool in your OpenCV belt.

--- Strana 129 ---
Detecting Harris corners
Let's start by finding corners using the Harris corner detection algorithm. We will
do this by implementing an example. If you continue to study OpenCV beyond
this book, you will find that chessboards are a common subject of analysis in
computer vision, partly because a checkered pattern is suited to many types of
feature detection, and partly because chess is a popular pastime, especially in
Russia, which is the country of origin of many of OpenCV's developers.
Here is our sample image of a chessboard and chess pieces:
Figure 6.1: A chessboard, to be used for corner detection
OpenCV has a handy function called cv2.cornerHarris , which detects corners
in an image. We can see this function at work in the following basic example:

--- Strana 130 ---
Let's analyze the code. After the usual imports, we load the chessboard image and
convert it into grayscale. Then, we call the cornerHarris function:
The most important parameter here is the third one, which defines the aperture or
kernel size of the Sobel operator. The Sobel operator detects edges by measuring
horizontal and vertical differences between pixel values in a neighborhood, and it
does this using a kernel. The cv2.cornerHarris function uses a Sobel operator
whose aperture is defined by this parameter. In plain English, the parameters
define how sensitive corner detection is. It must be between 3 and 31 and be an
odd value. With a low (highly sensitive) value of 3 , all those diagonal lines in
the black squares of the chessboard will register as corners when they touch the
border of the square. For a higher (less sensitive) value of 23 , only the corners of
each square will be detected as corners.
cv2.cornerHarris returns an image in floating-point format. Each value in this
image represents a score for the corresponding pixel in the source image. A
moderate or high score indicates that the pixel is likely to be a corner. Conversely,
we can treat pixels with the lowest scores as non-corners. Consider the following
line:
Here, we select pixels with scores that are at least 1% of the highest score, and we
color these pixels red in the original image. Here is the result:

--- Strana 131 ---
Figure 6.2: Corners detections in a chessboard
Great! Nearly all the detected corners are marked in red. The marked points
include nearly all the corners of the chessboard's squares.
If we tweak the second parameter in cv2.cornerHarris , we will see that
smaller regions (for a smaller parameter value) or larger regions (for a larger
parameter value) will be detected as corners. This parameter is called the
block size.

--- Strana 132 ---
Detecting DoG features and extracting
SIFT descriptors
The preceding technique, which uses cv2.cornerHarris , is great for detecting
corners and has a distinct advantage because even if the image is rotated corners
are still the corners. However, if we scale an image to a smaller or larger size,
some parts of the image may lose or even gain a corner quality.
For example, take a look at the following corner detections in an image of the F1
Italian Grand Prix track:
Figure 6.3: Corner detections in an image of the F1 Italian Grand Prix
track
Here is the corner detection result with a smaller version of the same image:

--- Strana 133 ---
Figure 6.4: Corner detections in a smaller image of the F1 Italian Grand
Prix track
You will notice how the corners are a lot more condensed; however, even though
we gained some corners, we lost others! In particular, let's examine the Variante
Ascari chicane, which looks like a squiggle at the end of the part of the track that
runs straight from northwest to southeast. In the larger version of the image, both
the entrance and the apex of the double bend were detected as corners. In the
smaller image, the apex is not detected as such. If we further reduce the image, at
some scale, we will lose the entrance to that chicane too.
This loss of features raises an issue; we need an algorithm that works regardless
of the scale of the image. Enter Scale-Invariant Feature Transform ( SIFT ).
While the name may sound a bit mysterious, now that we know what problem we
are trying to solve, it actually makes sense. We need a function (a transform) that
will detect features (a feature transform) and will not output different results
depending on the scale of the image (a scale-invariant feature transform). Note
that SIFT does not detect keypoints. Keypoint detection is done with the
Difference of Gaussians ( DoG ), while SIFT describes the region surrounding
the keypoints by means of a feature vector.
A quick introduction to the DoG is in order. Previously, in Chapter 3 , Processing
Images with OpenCV , we talked about low pass filters and blurring operations,
and specifically the cv2.GaussianBlur function. DoG is the result of applying
different Gaussian filters to the same image. Previously, we applied this type of
technique for edge detection, and the idea is the same here. The final result of a
DoG operation contains areas of interest (keypoints), which are then going to be
described through SIFT.

--- Strana 134 ---
Let's see how DoG and SIFT behave in the following image, which is full of
corners and features:
Figure 6.5: SIFT descriptors for an image of Varese, Lombardy, Italy
Here, the beautiful panorama of Varese (in Lombardy, Italy) gains a new type of
fame as a subject of computer vision. Here is the code that produces this
processed image:
After the usual imports, we load the image we want to process. Then, we convert
the image into grayscale. By now, you may have gathered that many methods in
OpenCV expect a grayscale image as input. The next step is to create a SIFT
detection object and compute the features and descriptors of the grayscale image:
Behind the scenes, these simple lines of code carry out an elaborate process; we
create a cv2.SIFT object, which uses DoG to detect keypoints and then computes
a feature vector for the surrounding region of each keypoint. As the name of the
detectAndCompute method clearly suggests, two main operations are performed:
feature detection and the computation of descriptors. The return value of the
operation is a tuple containing a list of keypoints and another list of the keypoints'
descriptors.
Finally, we process this image by drawing the keypoints on it with the
cv2.drawKeypoints function and then displaying it with the usual cv2.imshow
function. As one of its arguments, the cv2.drawKeypoints function accepts a
flag that specifies the type of visualization we want. Here, we specify

--- Strana 135 ---
cv2.DRAW_MATCHES_FLAGS_DRAW_RICH_KEYPOINT in order to draw a visualization
of the scale and orientation of each keypoint.
Anatomy of a keypoint
Each keypoint is an instance of the cv2.KeyPoint class, which has the following
properties:
The pt (point) property contains the x and y coordinates of the keypoint in
the image.
The size property indicates the diameter of the feature.
The angle property indicates the orientation of the feature, as shown by the
radial lines in the preceding processed image.
The response property indicates the strength of the keypoint. Some features
are classified by SIFT as stronger than others, and response is the property
you would check to evaluate the strength of a feature.
The octave property indicates the layer in the image pyramid where the
feature was found. Let's briefly review the concept of an image pyramid,
which we discussed previously in Chapter 5 , Detecting and Recognizing
Faces , in the Conceptualizing Haar cascades section. The SIFT algorithm
operates in a similar fashion to face detection algorithms in that it processes
the same image iteratively but alters the input at each iteration. In particular,
the scale of the image is a parameter that changes at each iteration ( octave
) of the algorithm. Thus, the octave property is related to the image scale at
which the keypoint was detected.
Finally, the class_id property can be used to assign a custom identifier to a
keypoint or a group of keypoints.

--- Strana 136 ---
Detecting Fast Hessian features and
extracting SURF descriptors
Computer vision is a relatively young branch of computer science, so many
famous algorithms and techniques have only been invented recently. SIFT is, in
fact, only 23 years old, having been published by David Lowe in 1999.
SURF is a feature detection algorithm that was published in 2006 by Herbert Bay.
SURF is several times faster than SIFT, and it is partially inspired by it.
Note that SURF is a patented algorithm and, for this reason, is made
available only in builds of opencv_contrib where the
OPENCV_ENABLE_NONFREE CMake flag is used. SIFT was formerly a patented
algorithm but its patent expired and now SIFT is available in standard builds
of OpenCV.
It is not particularly relevant to this book to understand how SURF works under
the hood, inasmuch as we can use it in our applications and make the best of it.
What is important to understand is that cv2.SURF is an OpenCV class that
performs keypoint detection with the Fast Hessian algorithm and descriptor
extraction with SURF, much like the cv2.SIFT class performs keypoint detection
with DoG and descriptor extraction with SIFT.
Also, the good news is that OpenCV provides a standardized API for all its
supported feature detection and descriptor extraction algorithms. Thus, with only
trivial changes, we can adapt our previous code sample to use SURF instead of
SIFT. Here is the modified code, with the changes highlighted :
The parameter to cv2.xfeatures2d.SURF_create is a threshold for the Fast
Hessian algorithm. By increasing the threshold, we can reduce the number of
features that will be retained. With a threshold of 8000 , we get the following
result:

--- Strana 137 ---
Figure 6.6: SURF descriptors for an image of Varese, Lombardy, Italy
Try adjusting the threshold to see how it affects the result. As an exercise, you
may want to build a GUI application with a slider that controls the value of the
threshold. This way, a user can adjust the threshold and see the number of
features increase and decrease in an inversely proportional fashion. We built a
GUI application with sliders in Chapter 4 , Depth Estimation and Segmentation ,
in the Depth estimation with a normal camera section, so you may want to refer
back to that section as a guide.
Next, we'll examine the FAST corner detector, the BRIEF keypoint descriptor,
and ORB (which uses FAST and BRIEF together).

--- Strana 138 ---
Using ORB with FAST features and
BRIEF descriptors
If SIFT is young, and SURF younger, ORB is in its infancy. ORB was first
published in 2011 as a fast alternative to SIFT and SURF.
The algorithm was published in the paper ORB: an efficient alternative to SIFT or
SURF , available in PDF format at
http://www.willowgarage.com/sites/default/files/orb_final.pdf .
ORB mixes the techniques used in the FAST keypoint detector and the BRIEF
keypoint descriptor, so it is worth taking a quick look at FAST and BRIEF first.
Then, we will talk about brute-force matching – an algorithm used for feature
matching – and look at an example of feature matching.
FAST
The Features from Accelerated Segment Test ( FAST ) algorithm works by
analyzing circular neighborhoods of 16 pixels. It marks each pixel in a
neighborhood as brighter or darker than a particular threshold, which is defined
relative to the center of the circle. A neighborhood is deemed to be a corner if it
contains a number of contiguous pixels marked as brighter or darker.
FAST also uses a high-speed test, which can sometimes determine that a
neighborhood is not a corner by checking just 2 or 4 pixels instead of 16. To
understand how this test works, let's take a look at the following diagram, taken
from the OpenCV documentation:

--- Strana 139 ---
Figure 6.7: How the FAST algorithm analyzes a neighbourhood around
a corner
Here, we can see a 16-pixel neighborhood at two different magnifications. The
pixels at positions 1, 5, 9, and 13 correspond to the four cardinal points at the
edge of the circular neighborhood. If the neighborhood is a corner, we expect that
out of these four pixels, exactly three or exactly one will be brighter than the
threshold. (Another way of saying this is that exactly one or exactly three of them
will be darker than the threshold.) If exactly two of them are brighter than the
threshold, then we have an edge, not a corner. If exactly four or exactly zero of
them are brighter than the threshold, then we have a relatively uniform
neighborhood that is neither a corner nor an edge.
FAST is a clever algorithm, but it's not devoid of weaknesses, and to compensate
for these weaknesses, developers analyzing images can implement a machine
learning approach in order to feed a set of images (relevant to a given application)
to the algorithm so that parameters such as the threshold are optimized. Whether
the developer specifies parameters directly or provides a training set for a
machine learning approach, FAST is an algorithm that is sensitive to the
developer's input, perhaps more so than SIFT.
BRIEF
Binary Robust Independent Elementary Features ( BRIEF ), on the other
hand, is not a feature detection algorithm, but a descriptor. Let's delve deeper into
the concept of what a descriptor is, and then look at BRIEF.

--- Strana 140 ---
When we previously analyzed images with SIFT and SURF, the heart of the
entire process was the call to the detectAndCompute function. This function
performs two different steps – detection and computation – and they return two
different results, coupled in a tuple.
The result of detection is a set of keypoints; the result of the computation is a set
of descriptors for those keypoints. This means that OpenCV's cv2.SIFT and
cv2.xfeatures2d.SURF classes implement algorithms for both detection and
description. Remember, though, that the original SIFT and SURF are not feature
detection algorithms. OpenCV's cv2.SIFT implements DoG feature detection
plus SIFT description, while OpenCV's cv2.xfeatures2d.SURF implements Fast
Hessian feature detection plus SURF description.
Keypoint descriptors are a representation of the image that serves as the gateway
to feature matching because you can compare the keypoint descriptors of two
images and find commonalities.
BRIEF is one of the fastest descriptors currently available. The theory behind
BRIEF is quite complicated, but suffice it to say that BRIEF adopts a series of
optimizations that make it a very good choice for feature matching.
Brute-force matching
A brute-force matcher is a descriptor matcher that compares two sets of keypoint
descriptors and generates a result that is a list of matches. It is called brute-force
because little optimization is involved in the algorithm. For each keypoint
descriptor in the first set, the matcher makes comparisons to every keypoint
descriptor in the second set. Each comparison produces a distance value and the
best match can be chosen on the basis of least distance.
More generally, in computing, the term brute-force is associated with an
approach that prioritizes the exhaustion of all possible combinations (for
example, all the possible combinations of characters to crack a password of a
known length). Conversely, an algorithm that prioritizes speed might skip some
possibilities and try to take a shortcut to the solution that seems the most
plausible.
OpenCV provides a cv2.BFMatcher class that supports several approaches to
brute-force feature matching.

--- Strana 141 ---
Matching a logo in two images
Now that we have a general idea of what FAST and BRIEF are, we can
understand why the team behind ORB (composed of Ethan Rublee, Vincent
Rabaud, Kurt Konolige, and Gary R. Bradski) chose these two algorithms as a
foundation for ORB.
In their paper, the authors set out to achieve the following results:
The addition of a fast and accurate orientation component to FAST
The efficient computation of oriented BRIEF features
Analysis of variance and correlation of oriented BRIEF features
A learning method to decorrelate BRIEF features under rotational
invariance, leading to better performance in nearest-neighbor applications
The main points are quite clear: ORB aims to optimize and speed up operations,
including the very important step of utilizing BRIEF in a rotation-aware fashion
so that matching is improved, even in situations where a training image has a very
different rotation to the query image.
At this stage, though, perhaps you have had enough of the theory and want to sink
your teeth into some feature matching, so let's look at some code. The following
script attempts to match features in a logo to the features in a photograph that
contains the logo:
Let's examine this code step by step. After the usual imports, we load two images
(the query image and the scene) in grayscale format. Here is the query image,
which is the NASA logo:

--- Strana 142 ---
Figure 6.8: The NASA logo, to be used for keypoint descriptor
matching
Here is the photo of the scene, which is the Kennedy Space Center:
Figure 6.9: The Kennedy Space Center, with a NASA logo on its wall
Now, we proceed to create the ORB feature detector and descriptor:

--- Strana 143 ---
In a similar fashion to what we did with SIFT and SURF, we detect and compute
the keypoints and descriptors for both images.
From here, the concept is pretty simple: iterate through the descriptors and
determine whether they are a match or not, and then calculate the quality of this
match (distance) and sort the matches so that we can display the top n matches
with a degree of confidence that they are, in fact, matching features on both
images. cv2.BFMatcher does this for us:
At this stage, we already have all the information we need, but as computer vision
enthusiasts, we place quite a bit of importance on visually representing data, so
let's draw these matches in a matplotlib chart:
Python's slicing syntax is quite robust. If the matches list contains fewer
than 25 entries, the matches[:25] slicing command will run without
problems and give us a list with just as many elements as the original.
The result is as follows:
Figure 6.10: Matches between the NASA logo and the Kennedy Space
Center, using brute-force matching
You might think that this is a disappointing result. Indeed, we can see that most of
the matches are false matches. Unfortunately, this is quite typical. To improve our

--- Strana 144 ---
results, we need to apply additional techniques to filter out bad matches. We'll
turn our attention to this task next.

--- Strana 145 ---
Filtering matches using K-Nearest
Neighbors and the ratio test
Imagine that a large group of renowned philosophers asks you to judge their
debate on a question of great importance to life, the universe, and everything. You
listen carefully as each philosopher speaks in turn. Finally, when all the
philosophers have exhausted all their lines of argument, you review your notes
and perceive two things, as follows:
Every philosopher disagrees with every other
No one philosopher is much more convincing than the others
From your first observation, you infer that at most one of the philosophers is
right; however, it is possible that all the philosophers could be wrong. Then, from
your second observation, you begin to fear that you are at risk of picking a
philosopher who is wrong, even if one of the philosophers is correct. Any way
you look at it, these people have made you late for dinner. You call it a tie and say
that the debate's all-important question remains unresolved.
We can compare our imaginary problem of judging the philosophers' debate to
our practical problem of filtering out bad keypoint matches.
First, let's assume that each keypoint in our query image has, at most, one correct
match in the scene. By implication, if our query image is the NASA logo, we
assume that the other image – the scene – contains, at most, one NASA logo.
Given that a query keypoint has, at most, one correct or good match, when we
consider all possible matches, we are primarily observing bad matches. Thus, a
brute-force matcher, which computes a distance score for every possible match,
can give us plenty of observations of the distance scores for bad matches. We
expect that a good match will have a significantly better (lower) distance score
than the numerous bad matches, so the scores for the bad matches can help us
pick a threshold for a good match. Such a threshold does not necessarily
generalize well across different query keypoints or different scenes, but at least it
helps us on a case-by-case basis.
Now, let's consider the implementation of a modified brute-force matching
algorithm that adaptively chooses a distance threshold in the manner we have

--- Strana 146 ---
described. In the previous section's code sample, we used the match method of
the cv2.BFMatcher class in order to get a list containing the single best (least-
distance) match for each query keypoint. By doing so, we discarded information
about the distance scores of all the worse possible matches – the kind of
information we need for our adaptive approach. Fortunately, cv2.BFMatcher also
provides a knnMatch method, which accepts an argument, k , that specifies the
maximum number of best (least-distance) matches that we want to retain for each
query keypoint. (In some cases, we may get fewer matches than the maximum.)
KNN stands for k-nearest neighbors .
We will use the knnMatch method to request a list of the two best matches for
each query keypoint. Based on our assumption that each query keypoint has, at
most, one correct match, we are confident that the second-best match is wrong.
We multiply the second-best match's distance score by a value less than 1 in order
to obtain the threshold.
Then, we accept the best match as a good match only if its distant score is less
than the threshold. This approach is known as the ratio test , and it was first
proposed by David Lowe, the author of the SIFT algorithm. He describes the ratio
test in his paper, Distinctive Image Features from Scale-Invariant Keypoints ,
which is available at https://www.cs.ubc.ca/~lowe/papers/ijcv04.pdf. Specifically,
in the Application to object recognition section, he states the following:
"The probability that a match is correct can be determined by taking the
ratio of the distance from the closest neighbor to the distance of the second
closest."
We can load the images, detect keypoints, and compute ORB descriptors in the
same way as we did in the previous section's code sample. Then, we can perform
brute-force KNN matching using the following two lines of code:
knnMatch returns a list of lists; each inner list contains at least one match and no
more than k matches, sorted from best (least distance) to worst. The following
line of code sorts the outer list based on the distance score of the best matches:
Let's draw the top 25 best matches, along with any second-best matches that
knnMatch may have paired with them. We can't use the cv2.drawMatches
function because it only accepts a one-dimensional list of matches; instead, we
must use cv2.drawMatchesKnn . The following code is used to select, draw, and
show the matches:

--- Strana 147 ---
So far, we have not filtered out any bad matches – and, indeed, we have
deliberately included the second-best matches, which we believe to be bad – so
the result looks a mess. Here it is:
Figure 6.11: Matches between the NASA logo and the Kennedy Space
Center, using brute-force KNN matching
Now, let's apply the ratio test. We will set the threshold at 0.8 times the distance
score of the second-best match. If knnMatch has failed to provide a second-best
match, we reject the best match anyway because we are unable to apply the test.
The following code applies these conditions and provides us with a list of best
matches that passed the test:
Having applied the ratio test, now we are only dealing with best matches (not
pairs of best and second-best matches), so we can draw them with
cv2.drawMatches instead of cv2.drawMatchesKnn . Again, we will select the top
25 matches from the list. The following code is used to select, draw, and show the
matches:
Here, we can see the matches that passed the ratio test:

--- Strana 148 ---
Figure 6.12: Matches between the NASA logo and the Kennedy Space
Center, using brute-force KNN matching and the ratio test
Comparing this output image to the one in the previous section, we can see that
KNN and the ratio test have allowed us to filter out many bad matches. The
remaining matches are not perfect but nearly all of them point to the correct
region – the NASA logo on the side of the Kennedy Space Center.
We have made a promising start. Next, we will replace the brute-force matcher
with a faster matcher called FLANN . After that, we will learn how to describe a
set of matches in terms of homography – that is, a 2D transformation matrix that
expresses the position, rotation, scale, and other geometric characteristics of the
matched object.

--- Strana 149 ---
Matching with FLANN
FLANN stands for Fast Library for Approximate Nearest Neighbors . It is an
open source library under the permissive 2-clause BSD license and it is available
on GitHub at https://github.com/flann-lib/flann . There, we find the following
description:
"FLANN is a library for performing fast approximate nearest neighbor
searches in high dimensional spaces. It contains a collection of algorithms
we found to work best for the nearest neighbor search and a system for
automatically choosing the best algorithm and optimum parameters
depending on the dataset. FLANN is written in C++ and contains bindings
for the following languages: C, MATLAB,Python, and Ruby."
In other words, FLANN has a big toolbox, it knows how to choose the right tools
for the job, and it speaks several languages. These features make the library fast
and convenient. Indeed, FLANN's authors claim that it is 10 times faster than
other nearest-neighbor search software for many datasets.
Although FLANN is also available as a standalone library, we will use it as part
of OpenCV because OpenCV provides a handy wrapper for it.
To begin our practical example of FLANN matching, let's import NumPy,
OpenCV, and Matplotlib, and load two images from files. Here is the relevant
code:
Here is the first image – the query image – that our script is loading:

--- Strana 150 ---
Figure 6.13: Paul Gaugin’s painting Entre les lys (Among the lilies) , to
be used for keypoint descriptor matching
This work of art is Entre les lys ( Among the lilies ), painted by Paul Gauguin in
1889. We will search for matching keypoints in a larger image that contains
multiple works by Gauguin, alongside some haphazard shapes drawn by one of
the authors of this book. Here is the larger image:

--- Strana 151 ---
Figure 6.14: Haphazard shapes and various Gaugin paintings, to be
used for keypoint descriptor matching
Within the larger image, Entre les lys appears in the third column, third row. The
query image and the corresponding region of the larger image are not identical;
they depict Entre les lys in slightly different colors and at a different scale.
Nonetheless, this should be an easy case for our matcher.

--- Strana 152 ---
Let's detect the necessary keypoints and extract our features using the cv2.SIFT
class:
So far, the code should seem familiar, since we have already dedicated several
sections of this chapter to SIFT and other descriptors. In our previous examples,
we fed the descriptors to cv2.BFMatcher for brute-force matching. This time, we
will use cv2.FlannBasedMatcher instead. The following code performs FLANN-
based matching with custom parameters:
Here, we can see that the FLANN matcher takes two parameters: an indexParams
object and a searchParams object. These parameters, passed in the form of
dictionaries in Python (and structs in C++), determine the behavior of the index
and search objects that are used internally by FLANN to compute the matches.
We have chosen parameters that offer a reasonable balance between accuracy and
processing speed. Specifically, we are using a kernel density tree ( kd-tree )
indexing algorithm with five trees, which FLANN can process in parallel. (The
FLANN documentation recommends between one tree, which would offer no
parallelism, and 16 trees, which would offer a high degree of parallelism if the
system could exploit it.)
We are performing 50 checks or traversals of each tree. A greater number of
checks can provide greater accuracy but at a greater computational cost.
After performing FLANN-based matching, we apply Lowe's ratio test with a
multiplier of 0.7. To demonstrate a different coding style, we will use the result of
the ratio test in a slightly different way compared to how we did in the previous
section's code sample. Previously, we assembled a new list with just the good
matches in it. This time, we will assemble a list called mask_matches , in which
each element is a sublist of length k (the same k that we passed to knnMatch ). If
a match is good, we set the corresponding element of the sublist to 1 ; otherwise,
we set it to 0 .
For example, if we have mask_matches = [[0, 0], [1, 0]] , this means that
we have two matched keypoints; for the first keypoint, the best and second-best
matches are both bad, while for the second keypoint, the best match is good but
the second-best match is bad. Remember, we assume that all the second-best
matches are bad. We use the following code to apply the ratio test and build the
mask:
Now, it is time to draw and show the good matches. We can pass our
mask_matches list to cv2.drawMatchesKnn as an optional argument, as

--- Strana 153 ---
highlighted in the following code segment:
cv2.drawMatchesKnn only draws the matches that we marked as good (with a
value of 1 ) in our mask. Let's unveil the result. Our script produces the following
visualization of the FLANN-based matches:
Figure 6.15: FLANN-based matching with Gaugin paintings
This is an encouraging picture: it appears that nearly all the matches fall in the
right places. Next, let's try to reduce this type of result to a more succinct
geometric representation – a homography – which would describe the pose of a
whole matched object rather than a bunch of disconnected matched points.

--- Strana 154 ---
Finding homography with FLANN-
based matches
First of all, what is homography? Let's read a definition from the internet:
"A relation between two figures, such that to any point of the one
corresponds one and but one point in the other, and vice versa. Thus, a
tangent line rolling on a circle cuts two fixed tangents of the circle in two
sets of points that are homographic."
If you – like the authors of this book – are none the wiser from the preceding
definition, you will probably find the following explanation a bit clearer:
homography is a condition in which two figures find each other when one is a
perspective distortion of the other.
First, let's take a look at what we want to achieve so that we can fully understand
what homography is. Then, we will go through the code.
Imagine that we want to search for the following tattoo:
Figure 6.16: An anchor tattoo, to be used for keypoint matching and
finding homography
We, as human beings, can easily locate the tattoo in the following image, despite
there being a difference in rotation:

--- Strana 155 ---
Figure 6.17: Fingers, with an anchor tattoo, to be used for keypoint
matching and finding homography
As an exercise in computer vision, we want to write a script that produces the
following visualization of keypoint matches and the homography:

--- Strana 156 ---
Figure 6.18: Keypoint matches and homography between two images of
an anchor tattoo
As shown in the preceding screenshot, we took the subject in the first image,
correctly identified it in the second image, drew matching lines between the
keypoints, and even drew a white border showing the perspective deformation of
the subject in the second image relative to the first image.
You might have guessed – correctly – that the script's implementation starts by
importing libraries, reading images in grayscale format, detecting features, and
computing SIFT descriptors. We did all of this in our previous examples, so we
will omit that here. Let's take a look at what we do next:
1. We proceed by assembling a list of matches that pass Lowe's ratio test, as
shown in the following code:
1. Technically, we can calculate the homography with as few as four matches.
However, if any of these four matches is flawed, it will throw off the

--- Strana 157 ---
accuracy of the result. A more practical minimum is 10 . Given the extra
matches, the homography-finding algorithm can discard some outliers in
order to produce a result that closely fits a substantial subset of the matches.
Thus, we proceed to check whether we have at least 10 good matches:
1. If this condition has been satisfied, we look up the 2D coordinates of the
matched keypoints and place these coordinates in two lists of floating-point
coordinate pairs. One list contains the keypoint coordinates in the query
image, while the other list contains the matching keypoint coordinates in the
scene:
1. Now, we find the homography:
Note that we create a mask_matches list, which will be used in the final drawing
of the matches so that only points lying within the homography will have
matching lines drawn.
1. At this stage, we have to perform a perspective transformation, which takes
the rectangular corners of the query image and projects them into the scene
so that we can draw the border:
Then, we proceed to draw the keypoints and show the visualization, as per our
previous examples.

--- Strana 158 ---
A sample application – tattoo
forensics
Let's conclude this chapter with a real-life (or perhaps fantasy-life)
example. Imagine you are working for the Gotham forensics department
and you need to identify a tattoo. You have the original picture of a
criminal's tattoo (perhaps captured in CCTV footage), but you don't know
the identity of the person. However, you possess a database of tattoos,
indexed with the name of the person that the tattoo belongs to.
Let's divide this task into two parts:
Build a database by saving image descriptors to files
Load the database and scan for matches between a query image's
descriptors and the descriptors in the database
We will cover these tasks in the next two subsections.
Saving image descriptors to file
The first thing we will do is save the image descriptors to an external file.
This way, we don't have to recreate the descriptors every time we want to
scan two images for matches.
For the purposes of our example, let's scan a folder for images and create
the corresponding descriptor files so that we have them readily available for
future searches. To create descriptors, we will use a process we have
already used a number of times in this chapter: namely, load an image,
create a feature detector, detect features, and compute descriptors. To save
the descriptors to a file, we will use a handy method of NumPy arrays
called save , which dumps array data into a file in an optimized way.
The pickle module, in the Python standard library, provides more
general-purpose serialization functionality that supports any Python

--- Strana 159 ---
object and not just NumPy arrays. However, NumPy's array
serialization is a good choice for numeric data.
Let's break our script up into functions. The main function will be named
create_descriptors (plural, descriptors), and it will iterate over the files
in a given folder. For each file, create_descriptors will call a helper
function named create_descriptor (singular, descriptor), which will
compute and save our descriptors for the given image file. Let's get started:
1. First, here is the implementation of create_descriptors :
Note that create_descriptors creates the feature detector because we
only need to do this once, not every time we load a file. The helper
function, create_descriptor, receives the feature detector as an
argument.
1. Now, let's look at the latter function's implementation:
Note that we save the descriptor files in the same folder as the images.
Moreover, we assume that the image files have the png extension. To make
the script more robust, you could modify it so that it supports additional
image file extensions such as jpg . If a file has an unexpected extension,
we skip it because it might be a descriptor file (from a previous run of the
script) or some other non-image file.
1. We have finished implementing the functions. To complete the script,
we will call create_descriptors with a folder name as an argument:
When we run this script, it produces the necessary descriptor files in
NumPy's array file format, with the file extension npy . These files
constitute our database of tattoo descriptors, indexed by name. (Each
filename is a person's name.) Next, we'll write a separate script so that we
can run a query against this database.
Scanning for matches

--- Strana 160 ---
Now that we have descriptors saved to files, we just need to perform
matching against each set of descriptors to determine which set best
matches our query image.
This is the process we will put in place:
1. Load a query image ( query.png ).
2. Scan the folder containing descriptor files. Print the names of the
descriptor files.
3. Create SIFT descriptors for the query image.
4. For each descriptor file, load the SIFT descriptors and find FLANN-
based matches. Filter the matches based on the ratio test. Print the
person's name and the number of matches. If the number of matches
exceeds an arbitrary threshold, print that the person is a suspect.
(Remember, we are investigating a crime.)
5. Print the name of the prime suspect (the one with the most matches).
Let's consider the implementation:
1. First, the following code block loads the query image:
1. We proceed to assemble and print a list of the descriptor files:
1. We set up our typical cv2.SIFT and cv2.FlannBasedMatcher objects,
and we generate descriptors of the query image:
1. Now, we search for suspects, whom we define as people with at least
10 good matches for the query tattoo. Our search entails iterating over
the descriptor files, loading the descriptors, performing FLANN-based
matching, and filtering the matches based on the ratio test. We print a
result for each person (each descriptor file):
Note the use of the np.load method, which loads a specified npy file
into a NumPy array.
1. In the end, we print the name of the prime suspect (if we found a
suspect, that is):

--- Strana 161 ---
Running the preceding script produces the following output:
If we wanted, we could represent the matches and the homography
graphically, as we did in the previous section.

--- Strana 162 ---
Summary
In this chapter, we learned about detecting keypoints, computing keypoint
descriptors, matching these descriptors, filtering out bad matches, and
finding the homography between two sets of matching keypoints. We
explored a number of algorithms that are available in OpenCV that can be
used to accomplish these tasks, and we applied these algorithms to a variety
of images and use cases.
If we combine our new knowledge of keypoints with additional knowledge
about cameras and perspective, we can track objects in 3D space. This will
be the topic of Chapter 9 , Camera Models and Augmented Reality . You
can skip ahead to that chapter if you are particularly keen to reach the third
dimension.
If, instead, you think the next logical step is to round off your knowledge of
two-dimensional solutions for object detection, recognition, and tracking,
you can continue sequentially with Chapter 7 , Building Custom Object
Detectors , and then Chapter 8 , Tracking Objects . It is good to know of a
combination 2D and 3D techniques so that you can choose an approach that
offers the right kind of output and the right computational speed for a given
application.

--- Strana 163 ---
Join our book community on
Discord
https://discord.gg/djGjeMECxw
This chapter delves deeper into the concept of object detection, which is
one of the most common challenges in computer vision. Having come this
far in the book, you are perhaps wondering when you will be able to put
computer vision into practice on the streets. Do you dream of building a
system to detect cars and people? Well, you are not too far from your goal,
actually.
We have already looked at some specific cases of object detection and
recognition in previous chapters. We focused on upright, frontal human
faces in Chapter 5 , Detecting and Recognizing Faces , and on objects with
corner-like or blob-like features in Chapter 6 , Retrieving Images and
Searching Using Image Descriptors . Now, in the current chapter, we will
explore algorithms that have a good ability to generalize or extrapolate, in
the sense that they can cope with the real-world diversity that exists within
a given class of object. For example, different cars have different designs,
and people can appear to be different shapes depending on the clothes they
wear.
Specifically, we will pursue the following objectives:

--- Strana 164 ---
Learning about another kind of feature descriptor: the histogram of
oriented gradients ( HOG ) descriptor.
Understanding non-maximum suppression , also called non-maxima
suppression ( NMS ), which helps us choose the best of an
overlapping set of detection windows.
Gaining a high-level understanding of support vector machines (
SVMs ). These general-purpose classifiers are based on supervised
machine learning, in a way that is similar to linear regression.
Detecting people with a pre-trained classifier based on HOG
descriptors.
Training a bag-of-words ( BoW ) classifier to detect a car. For this
sample, we will work with a custom implementation of an image
pyramid, a sliding window, and NMS so that we can better understand
the inner workings of these techniques.
Most of the techniques in this chapter are not mutually exclusive; rather,
they work together as components of a detector. By the end of the chapter,
you will know how to train and use classifiers that have practical
applications on the streets!

--- Strana 165 ---
Technical requirements
This chapter uses Python, OpenCV, and NumPy. Please refer back to
Chapter 1 , Setting Up OpenCV , for installation instructions.
The completed code for this chapter can be found in this book's GitHub
repository, at https://github.com/PacktPublishing/Learning-OpenCV-5-
Computer-Vision-with-Python-Fourth-Edition , in the chapter07 folder.
Sample images can be found in the repository in the images folder.

--- Strana 166 ---
Understanding HOG descriptors
HOG is a feature descriptor, so it belongs to the same family of algorithms as
scale-invariant feature transform ( SIFT ), speeded-up robust features (
SURF ), and Oriented FAST and rotated BRIEF ( ORB ), which we covered in
Chapter 6 , Retrieving Images and Searching Using Image Descriptors . Like
other feature descriptors, HOG is capable of delivering the type of information
that is vital for feature matching, as well as for object detection and recognition.
Most commonly, HOG is used for object detection. The algorithm – and, in
particular, its use as a people detector – was popularized by Navneet Dalal and
Bill Triggs in their paper Histograms of Oriented Gradients for Human Detection
(INRIA, 2005), which is available online at
https://lear.inrialpes.fr/people/triggs/pubs/Dalal-cvpr05.pdf .
HOG's internal mechanism is really clever; an image is divided into cells and a
set of gradients is calculated for each cell. Each gradient describes the change in
pixel intensities in a given direction. Together, these gradients form a histogram
representation of the cell. We encountered a similar approach when we studied
face recognition with the local binary pattern histogram ( LBPH ) in Chapter 6
, Detecting and Recognizing Faces .
Before diving into the technical details of how HOG works, let's first take a look
at how HOG sees the world.
Visualizing HOG
Carl Vondrick, Aditya Khosla, Hamed Pirsiavash, Tomasz Malisiewicz, and
Antonio Torralba have developed a HOG visualization technique called HOGgles
(HOG goggles). For a summary of HOGgles, as well as links to code and
publications, refer to Carl Vondrick's MIT web page at
http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~vondrick/ihog/index.html . As one of their test
images, Vondrick et al. use the following photograph of a truck:

--- Strana 167 ---
Figure 7.1: A truck, to be used as a test image for HOG visualization
Vondrick et al. produce the following visualization of the HOG descriptors, based
on an approach from Dalal and Triggs' earlier paper:
Figure 7.2: HOG cell gradients, visualized as lines
Then, applying HOGgles, Vondrick et al. invert the feature description algorithm
to reconstruct the image of the truck as HOG sees it, as shown here:

--- Strana 168 ---
Figure 7.3: HOG cell gradients, visualized as smooth grayscale
transitions
In both of these two visualizations, you can see that HOG has divided the image
into cells, and you can easily recognize the wheels and the main structure of the
vehicle. In the first visualization, the calculated gradients for each cell are
visualized as a set of crisscrossing lines that sometimes look like an elongated
star; the star's longer axes represent stronger gradients. In the second
visualization, the gradients are visualized as a smooth transition in brightness,
along various axes in a cell.
Now, let's give further consideration to the way HOG works, and the way it can
contribute to an object detection solution.
Using HOG to describe regions of an image
For each HOG cell, the histogram contains a number of bins equal to the number
of gradients or, in other words, the number of axis directions that HOG considers.
After calculating all the cells' histograms, HOG processes groups of histograms to
produce higher-level descriptors. Specifically, the cells are grouped into larger
regions, called blocks. These blocks can be made of any number of cells, but
Dalal and Triggs found that 2x2 cell blocks yielded the best results when
performing people detection. A block-wide vector is created so that it can be
normalized, compensating for local variations in illumination and shadowing. (A
single cell is too small a region to detect such variations.) This normalization
improves a HOG-based detector's robustness, with respect to variations in
lighting conditions.

--- Strana 169 ---
Like other detectors, a HOG-based detector needs to cope with variations in
objects' location and scale. The need to search in various locations is addressed by
moving a fixed-size sliding window across an image. The need to search at
various scales is addressed by scaling the image to various sizes, forming a so-
called image pyramid. We studied these techniques previously in Chapter 5 ,
Detecting and Recognizing Faces , specifically in the Conceptualizing Haar
cascades section. However, let's elaborate on one difficulty: how to handle
multiple detections in overlapping windows.
Suppose we are using a sliding window to perform people detection on an image.
We slide our window in small steps, just a few pixels at a time, so we expect that
it will frame any given person multiple times. Assuming that overlapping
detections are indeed one person, we do not want to report multiple locations but,
rather, only one location that we believe to be correct. In other words, even if a
detection at a given location has a good confidence score, we might reject it if an
overlapping detection has a better confidence score; thus, from a set of
overlapping detections, we would choose the one with the best confidence score.
This is where NMS comes into play. Given a set of overlapping regions, we can
suppress (or reject) all the regions for which our classifier did not produce a
maximal score.

--- Strana 170 ---
Understanding NMS
The concept of NMS might sound simple. From a set of overlapping
solutions, just pick the best one! However, the implementation is more
complex than you might initially think. Remember the image pyramid?
Overlapping detections can occur at different scales. We must gather up all
our positive detections, and convert their bounds back to a common scale
before we check for overlap. A typical implementation of NMS takes the
following approach:
1. Construct an image pyramid.
2. Scan each level of the pyramid with the sliding window approach, for
object detection. For each window that yields a positive detection
(beyond a certain arbitrary confidence threshold), convert the window
back to the original image's scale. Add the window and its confidence
score to a list of positive detections.
3. Sort the list of positive detections by order of descending confidence
score so that the best detections come first in the list.
4. For each window, W , in the list of positive detections, remove all
subsequent windows that significantly overlap with W . We are left
with a list of positive detections that satisfy the criterion of NMS.
Besides NMS, another way to filter the positive detections is to
eliminate any subwindows. When we speak of a subwindow (or
subregion), we mean a window (or region in an image) that is entirely
contained inside another window (or region). To check for
subwindows, we simply need to compare the corner coordinates of
various window rectangles. We will take this simple approach in our
first practical example, in the Detecting people with HOG descriptors
section. Optionally, NMS and suppression of subwindows can be
combined.
Several of these steps are iterative, so we have an interesting optimization
problem on our hands. A fast sample implementation in MATLAB is
provided by Tomasz Malisiewicz at

--- Strana 171 ---
http://www.computervisionblog.com/2011/08/blazing-fast-nmsm-from-
exemplar-svm.html . A port of this sample implementation to Python is
provided by Adrian Rosebrock at
https://www.pyimagesearch.com/2015/02/16/faster-non-maximum-
suppression-python/ . We will build atop the latter sample later in this
chapter, in the Detecting a car in a scene section.
Now, how do we determine the confidence score for a window? We need a
classification system that determines whether a certain feature is present or
not, and a confidence score for this classification. This is where SVMs
come into play.

--- Strana 172 ---
Understanding SVMs
Without going into details of how an SVM works, let's just try to grasp what it
can help us accomplish in the context of machine learning and computer vision.
Given labeled training data, an SVM learns to classify the same kind of data by
finding an optimal hyperplane , which, in plain English, is the plane that divides
differently labeled data by the largest possible margin. To aid our understanding,
let's consider the following diagram, which is provided by Zach Weinberg under
the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported License:
Figure 7.4: Clusters and hyperplanes. An SVM would identify H3 as
the optimal hyperplane.

--- Strana 173 ---
Hyperplane H1 (shown as a green line) does not divide the two classes (the black
dots versus the white dots). Hyperplanes H2 (shown as a blue line) and H3
(shown as a red line) both divide the classes; however, only hyperplane H3
divides the classes by a maximal margin.
Let's suppose we are training an SVM as a people detector. We have two classes,
person and non-person . As training samples, we provide vectors of HOG
descriptors of various windows that do or do not contain a person. These
windows may come from various images. The SVM learns by finding the optimal
hyperplane that maximally divides the multidimensional HOG descriptor space
into people (on one side of the hyperplane) and non-people (on the other side).
Thereafter, when we give the trained SVM a vector of HOG descriptors for any
other window in any image, the SVM can judge whether the window contains a
person or not. The SVM can even give us a confidence value that relates to the
vector's distance from the optimal hyperplane.
The SVM model has been around since the early 1960s. However, it has
undergone improvements since then, and the basis of modern SVM
implementations can be found in the paper Support-vector networks ( Machine
Learning , 1995) by Corinna Cortes and Vladimir Vapnik. It is available at
http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/BF00994018 .
Now that we have a conceptual understanding of the key components we can
combine to make an object detector, we can start looking at a few examples. We
will start with one of OpenCV's ready-made object detectors, and then we will
progress to designing and training our own custom object detectors.

--- Strana 174 ---
Detecting people with HOG
descriptors
OpenCV comes with a class called cv2.HOGDescriptor , which is capable of
performing people detection. The interface has some similarities to the
cv2.CascadeClassifier class that we used in Chapter 5 , Detecting and
Recognizing Faces . However, unlike cv2.CascadeClassifier ,
cv2.HOGDescriptor sometimes returns nested detection rectangles. In other
words, cv2.HOGDescriptor might tell us that it detected one person whose
bounding rectangle is located completely inside another person's bounding
rectangle. This situation really is possible; for example, a child could be standing
in front of an adult, and the child's bounding rectangle could be completely inside
the adult's bounding rectangle. However, in a typical situation, nested detections
are probably errors, so cv2.HOGDescriptor is often used along with code to filter
out any nested detections.
Let's begin our sample script by implementing a test to determine whether one
rectangle is nested inside another. For this purpose, we will write a function,
is_inside(i, o) , where i is the possible inner rectangle and o is the possible
outer rectangle. The function will return True if i is inside o ; otherwise, it will
return False . Here is the start of the script:
Now, we create an instance of cv2.HOGDescriptor , and we specify that it will
use a default people detector that is built into OpenCV by running the following
code:
Note that we specified the people detector with the setSVMDetector method.
Hopefully, this makes sense based on the previous section of this chapter; an
SVM is a classifier, so the choice of SVM determines the type of object our
cv2.HOGDescriptor will detect.
Now, we proceed to load an image – in this case, an old photograph of women
working in a hayfield – and we attempt to detect people in the image by running
the following code:
Note that cv2.HOGDescriptor has a detectMultiScale method, which returns
two lists:

--- Strana 175 ---
1. A list of bounding rectangles for detected objects (in this case, detected
people).
2. A list of weights or confidence scores for detected objects. A higher value
indicates greater confidence that the detection result is correct.
detectMultiScale accepts several optional arguments, including the following:
winStride : This tuple defines the x and y distance that the sliding window
moves between successive detection attempts. HOG works well with
overlapping windows, so the stride may be small relative to the window size.
A smaller value produces more detections, at a higher computational cost.
The default stride has no overlap; it is the same as the window size, which is
(64, 128) for the default people detector.
scale : This scale factor is applied between successive levels of the image
pyramid. A smaller value produces more detections, at a higher
computational cost. The value must be greater than 1.0 . The default is 1.5
.
groupThreshold : This value determines how stringent our detection criteria
are. A smaller value is less stringent, resulting in more detections. The
default is 2.0 .
Now, we can filter the detection results to remove nested rectangles. To determine
whether a rectangle is a nested rectangle, we potentially need to compare it to
every other rectangle. Note the use of our is_inside function in the following
nested loop:
Finally, let's draw the remaining rectangles and weights in order to highlight the
detected people, and let's show and save this visualization, as follows:
If you run the script yourself, you will see rectangles around people in the image.
Here is the result:

--- Strana 176 ---
Figure 7.5: People detected using HOG. The photograph is another
example of the work of Sergey Prokudin-Gorsky (1863-1944), a
pioneer of color photography. Here, the scene is a field at the
Leushinskii Monastery, in northwestern Russia, in 1909.
Of the six women who are nearest to the camera, five have been successfully
detected. At the same time, a tower in the background has been falsely detected as
a person. In many real-world applications, people-detection results can be
improved by analyzing a series of frames in a video. For example, imagine that
we are looking at a surveillance video of the Leushinskii Monastery's hayfield,
instead of a single photograph. We should be able to add code to determine that
the tower cannot be a person because it does not move. Also, we should be able to
detect additional people in other frames and track each person's movement from
frame to frame. We will look at a people-tracking problem in Chapter 8 ,
Tracking Objects .

--- Strana 177 ---
Meanwhile, let's proceed to look at another kind of detector that we can train to
detect a given class of objects.

--- Strana 178 ---
Creating and training an object
detector
Using a pre-trained detector makes it easy to build a quick prototype, and
we are all very grateful to the OpenCV developers for making such useful
capabilities as face detection and people detection readily available.
However, whether you are a hobbyist or a computer vision professional, it
is unlikely that you will only deal with people and faces.
Moreover, if you are like the authors of this book, you will wonder how the
people detector was created in the first place and whether you can improve
it. Furthermore, you may also wonder whether you can apply the same
concepts to detect diverse objects, ranging from cars to goblins.
Indeed, in industry, you may have to deal with problems of detecting very
specific objects, such as registration plates, book covers, or whatever thing
may be most important to your employer or client.
Thus, the question is, how do we come up with our own classifiers?
There are many popular approaches. Throughout the remainder of this
chapter, we will see that one answer lies in SVMs and the BoW technique.
We have already talked about SVMs and HOG. Let's now take a closer look
at BoW.
Understanding BoW
BoW is a concept that was not initially intended for computer vision; rather,
we use an evolved version of this concept in the context of computer vision.
Let's first talk about its basic version, which – as you may have guessed –
originally belongs to the field of language analysis and information
retrieval.

--- Strana 179 ---
Sometimes, in the context of computer vision, BoW is called bag of
visual words ( BoVW) . However, we will simply use the term BoW,
since this is the term used by OpenCV.
BoW is the technique by which we assign a weight or count to each word in
a series of documents; we then represent these documents with vectors of
these counts. Let's look at an example, as follows:
Document 1 : I like OpenCV and I like Python.
Document 2 : I like C++ and Python.
Document 3 : I don't like artichokes.
These three documents allow us to build a dictionary – also called a
codebook or vocabulary – with these values, as follows:
We have eight entries. Let's now represent the original documents using
eight-entry vectors. Each vector contains values representing the counts of
all words in the dictionary, in order, for a given document. The vector
representation of the preceding three sentences is as follows:
These vectors can be conceptualized as a histogram representation of
documents or as a descriptor vector that can be used to train classifiers. For
example, a document can be classified as spam or not spam based on such a
representation. Indeed, spam filtering is one of the many real-world
applications of BoW.
Now that we have a grasp of the basic concept of BoW, let's see how this
applies to the world of computer vision.
Applying BoW to computer vision
We are by now familiar with the concepts of features and descriptors. We
have used algorithms such as SIFT and SURF to extract descriptors from an
image's features so that we can match these features in another image.
We have also recently familiarized ourselves with another kind of
descriptor, based on a codebook or dictionary. We know about an SVM, a

--- Strana 180 ---
model that can accept labeled descriptor vectors as training data, can find an
optimal division of the descriptor space into the given classes, and can
predict the classes of new data.
Armed with this knowledge, we can take the following approach to build a
classifier:
1. Take a sample dataset of images.
2. For each image in the dataset, extract descriptors (with SIFT, SURF,
ORB, or a similar algorithm).
3. Add each descriptor vector to the BoW trainer.
4. Cluster the descriptors into k clusters whose centers (centroids) are our
visual words. This last point probably sounds a bit obscure, but we will
explore it further in the next section.
At the end of this process, we have a dictionary of visual words ready to be
used. As you can imagine, a large dataset will help make our dictionary
richer in visual words. Up to a point, the more words, the better!
Having trained a classifier, we should proceed to test it. The good news is
that the test process is conceptually very similar to the training process
outlined previously. Given a test image, we can extract descriptors and
quantize them (or reduce their dimensionality) by calculating a histogram
of their distances to the centroids. Based on this, we can attempt to
recognize visual words, and locate them in the image.
This is the point in the chapter where you have built up an appetite for a
deeper practical example, and are raring to code. However, before
proceeding, let's take a quick but necessary digression into the theory of k -
means clustering so that you can fully understand how visual words are
created. Thereby, you will gain a better understanding of the process of
object detection using BoW and SVMs.
k-means clustering
k -means clustering is a method of quantization whereby we analyze a large
number of vectors in order to find a small number of clusters. Given a
dataset, k represents the number of clusters into which the dataset is going

--- Strana 181 ---
to be divided. The term means refers to the mathematical concept of the
mean or the average; when visually represented, the mean of a cluster is its
centroid or the geometric center of points in the cluster.
Clustering refers to the process of grouping points in a dataset into
clusters.
OpenCV provides a class called cv2.BOWKMeansTrainer , which we will
use to help train our classifier. As you might expect, the OpenCV
documentation gives the following summary of this class:
A "kmeans-based class to train a visual vocabulary using the bag of
words approach."
After this long theoretical introduction, we can look at an example, and start
training our custom classifier.

--- Strana 182 ---
Detecting cars
To train any kind of classifier, we must begin by creating or acquiring a training
dataset. We are going to train a car detector, so our dataset must contain positive
samples that represent cars, as well as negative samples that represent other (non-
car) things that the detector is likely to encounter while looking for cars. For
example, if the detector is intended to search for cars on a street, then a picture of
a curb, a crosswalk, a pedestrian, or a bicycle might be a more representative
negative sample than a picture of the rings of Saturn. Besides representing the
expected subject matter, ideally, the training samples should represent the way
our particular camera and algorithm will see the subject matter.
Ultimately, in this chapter, we intend to use a sliding window of fixed size, so it is
important that our training samples conform to a fixed size, and that the positive
samples are tightly cropped in order to frame a car without much background.
Up to a point, we expect that the classifier's accuracy will improve as we keep
adding good training images. On the other hand, a large dataset can make the
training slow, and it is possible to overtrain a classifier such that it fails to
extrapolate beyond the training set. Later in this section, we will write our code in
a way that allows us to easily modify the number of training images so that we
find a good size experimentally.
Assembling a dataset of car images would be a time-consuming task if we were to
do it all by ourselves (though it is entirely doable). To avoid reinventing the wheel
– or the whole car – we can avail ourselves of ready-made datasets, such as the
following:
UIUC Image Database for Car Detection:
https://cogcomp.seas.upenn.edu/Data/Car/
Stanford Cars Dataset :
http://ai.stanford.edu/~jkrause/cars/car_dataset.html
Let's use the UIUC dataset in our example. Several steps are involved in
obtaining this dataset and using it in a script, so let's walk through them one by
one, as follows:

--- Strana 183 ---
1. Download the UIUC dataset from https://github.com/gcr/arc-
evaluator/raw/master/CarData.tar.gz . Unzip it to some folder, which we will
refer to as <project_path> . Now, the unzipped data should be located at
<project_path>/CarData . Specifically, we will use some of the images in
<project_path>/CarData/TrainImages and
<project_path>/CarData/TestImages .
2. Also in <project_path> , let's create a Python script called
detect_car_bow_svm.py . To begin the script's implementation, write the
following code to check whether the CarData subfolder exists:
If you can run this script and it does not print anything, this means everything is
in its correct place.
1. Next, let's define the following constants in the script:
Note that our classifier will make use of two training stages: one stage for the
BoW vocabulary, which will use a number of images as samples, and another
stage for the SVM, which will use a number of BoW descriptor vectors as
samples. Arbitrarily, we have defined a different number of training samples for
each stage. At each stage, we could have also defined a different number of
training samples for the two classes ( car and not car ), but instead, we will use
the same number. We have also defined the number of BoW clusters. Note that
the number of BoW clusters may be larger than the number of BoW training
images, since each image has many descriptors.
1. We will use cv2.SIFT to extract descriptors and cv2.FlannBasedMatcher
to match these descriptors. Let's initialize these algorithms with the
following code:
Note that we have initialized SIFT and the Fast Library for Appropriate
Nearest Neighbors ( FLANN ) in the same way as we did in Chapter 6 ,
Retrieving Images and Searching Using image Descriptors . However, this time,
descriptor matching is not our end goal; instead, it will be part of the functionality
of our BoW.
1. OpenCV provides a class called cv2.BOWKMeansTrainer to train a BoW
vocabulary, and a class called cv2.BOWImgDescriptorExtractor to convert
some kind of lower-level descriptors – in our example, SIFT descriptors –
into BoW descriptors. Let's initialize these objects with the following code:

--- Strana 184 ---
When initializing cv2.BOWKMeansTrainer , we must specify the number of
clusters – in our example, 40 , as defined earlier. When initializing
cv2.BOWImgDescriptorExtractor , we must specify a descriptor extractor and a
descriptor matcher – in our example, the cv2.SIFT and cv2.FlannBasedMatcher
objects that we created earlier.
1. To train the BoW vocabulary, we will provide samples of SIFT descriptors
for various car and not car images. We will load the images from the
CarData/TrainImages subfolder, which contains positive ( car ) images
with names such as pos-x.pgm , and negative ( not car ) images with names
such as neg-x.pgm , where x is a number starting at 1 . Let's write the
following utility function to return a pair of paths to the i th positive and
negative training images, where i is a number starting at 0 :
Later in this section, we will call the preceding function in a loop, with a varying
value of i , when we need to acquire a number of training samples.
1. For each path to a training sample, we will need to load the image, extract
SIFT descriptors, and add the descriptors to the BoW vocabulary trainer.
Let's write another utility function to do precisely this, as follows:
If no features are found in the image, then the keypoints and descriptors
variables will be None .
1. At this stage, we have everything we need to start training the BoW
vocabulary. Let's read a number of images for each class ( car as the positive
class and not car as the negative class) and add them to the training set, as
follows:
1. Now that we have assembled the training set, we will call the vocabulary
trainer's cluster method, which performs the k -means classification and
returns the vocabulary. We will assign this vocabulary to the BoW descriptor
extractor, as follows:
Remember that earlier, we initialized the BoW descriptor extractor with a SIFT
descriptor extractor and FLANN matcher. Now, we have also given the BoW
descriptor extractor a vocabulary that we trained with samples of SIFT
descriptors. At this stage, our BoW descriptor extractor has everything it needs in
order to extract BoW descriptors from Difference of Gaussian ( DoG ) features.

--- Strana 185 ---
Remember that cv2.SIFT detects DoG features and extracts SIFT
descriptors, as we discussed in Chapter 6 , Retrieving Images and Searching
Using Image Descriptors , specifically in the Detecting DoG features and
extracting SIFT descriptors section.
1. Next, we will declare another utility function that takes an image and returns
the descriptor vector, as computed by the BoW descriptor extractor. This
involves extracting the image's DoG features, and computing the BoW
descriptor vector based on the DoG features, as follows:
1. We are ready to assemble another kind of training set, containing samples of
BoW descriptors. Let's create two arrays to accommodate the training data
and labels, and populate them with the descriptors generated by our BoW
descriptor extractor. We will label each descriptor vector with 1 for a
positive sample and -1 for a negative sample, as shown in the following
code block:
Should you wish to train a classifier to distinguish between multiple positive
classes, you can simply add other descriptors with other labels. For example,
we could train a classifier that uses the label 1 for car , 2 for person , and -1
for background . There is no requirement to have a negative or background
class but, if you do not, your classifier will assume that everything belongs
to one of the positive classes.
1. OpenCV provides a class called cv2.ml_SVM , representing an SVM. Let's
create an SVM, and train it with the data and labels that we previously
assembled, as follows:
Note that we must convert the training data and labels from lists to NumPy
arrays before we pass them to the train method of cv2.ml_SVM .
1. Finally, we are ready to test the SVM by classifying some images that were
not part of the training set. We will iterate over a list of paths to test images.
For each path, we will load the image, extract BoW descriptors, and get the
SVM's prediction or classification result, which will be either 1.0 ( car ) or
-1.0 ( not car ), based on the training labels we used earlier. We will draw
text on the image to show the classification result, and we will show the
image in a window. After showing all the images, we will wait for the user to
hit any key, and then the script will end. All of this is achieved in the
following block of code:

--- Strana 186 ---
Save and run the script. You should see six windows with various classification
results. Here is a screenshot of one of the true positive results:
Figure 7.6: An image of a car, correctly classified by our SVM
The next screenshot shows one of the true negative results:

--- Strana 187 ---
Figure 7.7: A non-car image, correctly classified by our SVM
Of the six images in our simple test, only the following one is incorrectly
classified:

--- Strana 188 ---
Figure 7.8: A non-car image, incorrectly classified as a car by our SVM
Incorrect classification solely depends upon the amount and nature of positive
and negative images used for training and the robustness of the learning
algorithm. For example, if the car position in every image of our training dataset
is in the center of the image, the test image with a car position at the corner of the
image may classify incorrectly.
Experiment with adjusting the number of training samples and other parameters,
and try testing the classifier on more images, to see what results you can get.
Let's take stock of what we have done so far. We have used a mixture of SIFT,
BoW, and SVMs to train a classifier to distinguish between two classes: car and
not car . We have applied this classifier to whole images. The next logical step is

--- Strana 189 ---
to apply a sliding window technique so that we can narrow down our
classification results to specific regions of an image.
Combining an SVM with a sliding window
By combining our SVM classifier with a sliding window technique and an image
pyramid, we can achieve the following improvements:
Detect multiple objects of the same kind in an image.
Determine the position and size of each detected object in an image.
We will adopt the following approach:
1. Take a region of the image, classify it, and then move this window to the
right by a predefined step size. When we reach the rightmost end of the
image, reset the x coordinate to 0 , move down a step, and repeat the entire
process.
2. At each step, perform a classification with the SVM that was trained with
BoW.
3. Keep track of all the windows that are positive detections, according to the
SVM.
4. After classifying every window in the entire image, scale the image down,
and repeat the entire process of using a sliding window. Thus, we are using
an image pyramid. Continue rescaling and classifying until we get to a
minimum size.
When we reach the end of this process, we have collected important information
about the content of the image. However, there is a problem: in all likelihood, we
have found a number of overlapping blocks that each yield a positive detection
with high confidence. That is to say, the image may contain one object that gets
detected multiple times. If we reported these multiple detections, our report
would be quite misleading, so we will filter our results using NMS.
For a refresher, you may wish to refer back to the Understanding NMS
section, earlier in this chapter.
Next, let's look at how to modify and extend our previous script, in order to
implement the approach we have just described.
Detecting a car in a scene

--- Strana 190 ---
We are now ready to apply all the concepts we learned so far by creating a car
detection script that scans an image and draws rectangles around cars. Let's create
a new Python script, detect_car_bow_svm_sliding_window.py , by copying our
previous script, detect_car_bow_svm.py . (We covered the implementation of
detect_car_bow_svm.py earlier, in the Detecting cars section.) Much of the new
script's implementation will remain unchanged because we still want to train a
BoW descriptor extractor and an SVM in almost the same way as we did
previously. However, after the training is complete, we will process the test
images in a new way. Rather than classifying each image in its entirety, we will
decompose each image into pyramid layers and windows, we will classify each
window, and we will apply NMS to a list of windows that yielded positive
detections.
For NMS, we will rely on Malisiewicz and Rosebrock's implementation, as
described earlier in this chapter, in the Understanding NMS section. You can find
a slightly modified copy of their implementation in this book's GitHub repository,
specifically in the Python script at chapter07/non_max_suppression.py . This
script provides a function with the following signature:
As its first argument, the function takes a NumPy array containing rectangle
coordinates and scores. If we have N rectangles, the shape of this array is N x5.
For a given rectangle at index i , the values in the array have the following
meanings:
boxes[i][0] is the leftmost x coordinate.
boxes[i][1] is the topmost y coordinate.
boxes[i][2] is the rightmost x coordinate.
boxes[i][3] is the bottommost y coordinate.
boxes[i][4] is the score, where a higher score represents greater
confidence that the rectangle is a correct detection result.
As its second argument, the function takes a threshold that represents the
maximum proportion of overlap between rectangles. If two rectangles have a
greater proportion of overlap than this, the one with the lower score will be
filtered out. Ultimately, the function will return an array of the remaining
rectangles.
Now, let's turn our attention to the modifications to the
detect_car_bow_svm_sliding_window.py script, as follows:

--- Strana 191 ---
1. First, we want to add a new import statement for the NMS function, as
highlighted in the following code:
1. Let's define some additional parameters near the start of the script, as
highlighted here:
Note that we have reduced the number of k -means clusters from 40 to 12 (a
number chosen arbitrarily based on experimentation). We will use
SVM_SCORE_THRESHOLD as a threshold to distinguish between a positive window
and a negative window. We will see how the score is obtained a little later in this
section. We will use NMS_OVERLAP_THRESHOLD as the maximum acceptable
proportion of overlap in the NMS step. Here, we have arbitrarily chosen 15%, so
we will cull windows that overlap by more than this proportion. As you
experiment with your SVMs, you may tweak these parameters to your liking until
you find values that yield the best results in your application.
1. We will also adjust the parameters of the SVM, as follows:
With the preceding changes to the SVM, we are specifying the classifier's level of
strictness or severity. As the value of the C parameter increases, the risk of false
positives decreases but the risk of false negatives increases. In our application, a
false positive would be a window detected as a car when it is really not a car, and
a false negative would be a car detected as a window when it really is a car.
After the code that trains the SVM, we want to add two more helper functions.
One of them will generate levels of the image pyramid, and the other will
generate regions of interest, based on the sliding window technique. Besides
adding these helper functions, we also need to handle the test images differently
in order to make use of the sliding window and NMS. The following steps cover
the changes:
1. First, let's look at the helper function that deals with the image pyramid. This
function is shown in the following code block:
The preceding function takes an image and generates a series of resized versions
of it. The series is bounded by a maximum and minimum image size.
You will have noticed that the resized image is not returned with the return
keyword but with the yield keyword. This is because this function is a so-
called generator. It produces a series of images that we can easily use in a

--- Strana 192 ---
loop. If you are not familiar with generators, take a look at the official
Python Wiki at https://wiki.python.org/moin/Generators .
1. Next up is the function to generate regions of interest, based on the sliding
window technique. This function is shown in the following code block:
Again, this is a generator. Although it is a bit deep-nested, the mechanism is very
simple: given an image, return the upper-left coordinates and the sub-image
representing the next window. Successive windows are shifted by an arbitrarily
sized step from left to right until we reach the end of a row, and from the top to
bottom until we reach the end of the image.
1. Now, let's consider the treatment of test images. As in the previous version
of the script, we loop through a list of paths to test images, in order to load
and process each one. The beginning of the loop is unchanged. For context,
here it is:
For each test image, we iterate over the pyramid levels, and for each pyramid
level, we iterate over the sliding window positions. For each window or region of
interest ( ROI ), we extract BoW descriptors and classify them using the SVM. If
the classification produces a positive result that passes a certain confidence
threshold, we add the rectangle's corner coordinates and confidence score to a list
of positive detections. Continuing from the previous code block, we proceed to
handle a given test image with the following code:
Let's take note of a couple of complexities in the preceding code, as follows:
To obtain a confidence score for the SVM's prediction, we must run the
predict method with an optional flag, cv2.ml.STAT_MODEL_RAW_OUTPUT .
Then, instead of returning a label, the method returns a score as part of its
output. This score may be negative, and a low value represents a high level
of confidence. To make the score more intuitive – and to match the NMS
function's assumption that a higher score is better – we negate the score so
that a high value represents a high level of confidence.
Since we are working with multiple pyramid levels, the window coordinates
do not have a common scale. We have converted them back to a common
scale – the original image's scale – before adding them to our list of positive
detections.
So far, we have performed car detection at various scales and positions; as a
result, we have a list of detected car rectangles, including coordinates and scores.

--- Strana 193 ---
We expect a lot of overlap within this list of rectangles.
1. Now, let's call the NMS function, in order to cherry-pick the highest-scoring
rectangles in the case of overlap, as follows:
Note that we have converted our list of rectangle coordinates and scores to a
NumPy array, which is the format expected by this function.
At this stage, we have an array of detected car rectangles and their scores, and we
have ensured that these are the best non-overlapping detections we can select
(within the parameters of our model).
1. Now, let's draw the rectangles and their scores by adding the following inner
loop to the code:
As in the previous version of this script, the body of the outer loop ends by
showing the current test image, including the annotations we have drawn on it.
After the loop runs through all the test images, we wait for the user to press any
key; then, the program ends, as shown here:
Let's run the modified script, and see how well it can answer the eternal question:
Dude, where's my car?
The following screenshot shows a pair of successful detections:

--- Strana 194 ---
Figure 7.9: A pair of cars, correctly detected by our SVM with a sliding
window approach
Among our other 5 test images, we have 2 false negatives (where a car is not
detected as such) but no false positives.
Remember that in this sample script, our training sets are small. Larger
training sets, with more diverse backgrounds, could improve the results.
Also, remember that the image pyramid and sliding window are producing a
large number of ROIs. When we consider this, we should realize that aa low
false positive rate is actually a significant accomplishment. Moreover, if we
were performing detection on frames of a video, we could mitigate the
problem of false negatives because we would have a chance to detect a car in
multiple frames.
Feel free to experiment with the parameters and training sets of the preceding
script. When you are ready, let's wrap up this chapter with a few closing notes.
Saving and loading a trained SVM
A final piece of advice on SVMs: you do not need to train a detector every time
you want to use it – and, indeed, you should avoid doing so because training is
slow. You can use code such as the following to save a trained SVM model to an
XML file:
Subsequently, you can reload the trained SVM, using code such as the following:
Typically, you might have one script that trains and saves your SVM model, and
other scripts that load and use it for various detection problems.

--- Strana 195 ---
Summary
In this chapter, we covered a wide range of concepts and techniques,
including HOG, BoW, SVMs, image pyramids, sliding windows, and NMS.
We learned that these techniques have applications in object detection, as
well as other fields. We wrote a script that combined most of these
techniques – BoW, SVMs, an image pyramid, a sliding window, and NMS –
and we gained practical experience in machine learning through the
exercise of training and testing a custom detector. Finally, we demonstrated
that we can detect cars!
Our new knowledge forms the foundation of the next chapter, in which we
will utilize object detection and classification techniques on sequences of
frames in videos. We will learn how to track objects and retain information
about them – an important objective in many real-world applications.

--- Strana 196 ---
Join our book community on
Discord
https://discord.gg/djGjeMECxw
In this chapter, we will explore a selection of techniques from the vast topic
of object tracking, which is the process of locating a moving object in a
movie or a video feed from a camera. Real-time object tracking is a critical
task in many computer vision applications, such as surveillance, perceptual
user interfaces, augmented reality, object-based video compression, and
driver assistance.
Tracking objects can be accomplished in several ways, with the most
optimal technique being largely dependent on the task at hand. We will take
the following route in our study of this topic:
Detect moving objects based on differences between the current frame
and a frame that represents the background. First, we will try a simple
implementation of this approach. Then, we will use OpenCV's
implementations of more advanced algorithms, namely, the Mixture of
Gaussians ( MOG ) and k-nearest neighbors ( KNN ) background
subtractors. We will also consider how to modify our scripts to use any
other background subtractor that OpenCV supports, such as the
Godbehere-Matsukawa-Goldberg ( GMG ) background subtractor.

--- Strana 197 ---
Track a moving object based on a color histogram of the object. This
approach involves histogram back-projection, which is the process of
computing the similarity between various image regions and a
histogram. In other words, the histogram serves as a template of how
we expect the object to look. We will use tracking algorithms called
MeanShift and CamShift , which operate on the result of the
histogram back-projection.
Use a Kalman filter to find a trend in an object's motion and to predict
where the object is going next.
Review the manner in which OpenCV favors object-oriented
programming ( OOP ) paradigms, and consider how this differs from
functional programming ( FP ) paradigms.
Implement a pedestrian tracker that combines KNN background
subtraction, MeanShift, and Kalman filtering.
Modify the pedestrian tracker to use Multiple Instance Learning
Tracker ( MILTrack ) or any of the other machine learning
algorithms that OpenCV implements via its cv2.Tracker interface.
If you have been reading this book sequentially, then, by the end of this
chapter, you will know a lot of ways to describe, detect, classify, and track
objects in 2D. At that point, you should be ready to pursue 3D tracking in
Chapter 9 , Camera Models and Augmented Reality .

--- Strana 198 ---
Technical requirements
This chapter uses Python, OpenCV, and NumPy. Please refer to Chapter 1 ,
Setting Up OpenCV , for installation instructions.
The complete code and sample videos for this chapter can be found in this
book's GitHub
repository, https://github.com/PacktPublishing/Learning-OpenCV-5-
Computer-Vision-with-Python-Fourth-Edition , in the chapter08 folder.
The sample videos can be found in the videos folder.

--- Strana 199 ---
Detecting moving objects with
background subtraction
To track anything in a video, first, we must identify the regions of a video frame
that correspond to moving objects. Many motion detection techniques are based
on the simple concept of background subtraction . For example, suppose that
we have a stationary camera viewing a scene that is also mostly stationary. In
addition to this, suppose that the camera's exposure and the lighting conditions in
the scene are stable so that frames do not vary much in terms of brightness. Under
these conditions, we can easily capture a reference image that represents the
background or, in other words, the stationary components of the scene. Then, any
time the camera captures a new frame, we can subtract the frame from the
reference image and take the absolute value of this difference in order to obtain a
measurement of motion at each pixel location in the frame. If any region of the
frame is very different from the reference image, we conclude that the given
region is a moving object.
Background subtraction techniques, in general, have the following limitations:
Any camera motion, change in exposure, or change in lighting conditions
can cause a change in pixel values throughout the entire scene all at once;
therefore, the entire background model (or reference image) becomes
outdated.
A piece of the background model can become outdated if an object enters the
scene and then just stays there for a long period of time. For example,
suppose our scene is a hallway. Someone enters the hallway, puts a poster on
the wall, and leaves the poster there. For all practical purposes, the poster is
now just another part of the stationary background; however, it was not part
of our reference image, so our background model has become partly
outdated.
These problems point to a need to dynamically update the background model
based on a series of new frames. Advanced background subtraction techniques
attempt to address this need in a variety of ways.
Another general limitation is that shadows and solid objects can affect a
background subtractor in similar ways. For instance, we might get an inaccurate

--- Strana 200 ---
picture of a moving object's size and shape because we cannot differentiate the
object from its shadow. However, advanced background subtraction techniques
do attempt to distinguish between shadow regions and solid objects using various
means.
Background subtractors generally have yet another limitation: they do not offer
fine-grained control over the kind of motion that they detect. For example, if a
scene shows a subway car that is continuously shaking as it travels on its track,
this repetitive motion will affect the background subtractor. For practical
purposes, we might consider the subway car's vibrations to be normal variations
in a semi-stationary background. We might even know the frequency of these
vibrations. However, a background subtractor does not embed any information
about frequencies of motion, so it does not offer a convenient or precise way in
which to filter out such predictable motions. To compensate for such
shortcomings, we can apply preprocessing steps such as blurring the reference
image and also blurring each new frame; in this way, certain frequencies are
suppressed, albeit in a manner that is not very intuitive, efficient, or precise.
Analyzing the frequencies of motion is beyond the scope of this book.
However, for an introduction to this topic in a computer vision context, see
Joseph Howse's book, OpenCV 4 for Secret Agents (Packt Publishing, 2019),
specifically Chapter 7 , Seeing a Heartbeat with a Motion-Amplifying
Camera .
Now that we have had an overview of background subtraction and understood
some of the obstacles that it faces, let's investigate how several implementations
of it fare in action. We will start with a simple but not robust implementation that
we can handcraft in a few lines of code, and then progress to more sophisticated
alternatives that OpenCV provides for us.
Implementing a basic background subtractor
To implement a basic background subtractor, let's take the following approach:
1. Start capturing frames from a camera.
2. Discard the first nine frames so that the camera has time to properly adjust
its autoexposure to suit the lighting conditions in the scene.
3. Take the 10th frame, convert it to grayscale, blur it, and use this blurred
image as the reference image of the background.

--- Strana 201 ---
4. For each subsequent frame, blur the frame, convert it to grayscale, and
compute the absolute difference between this blurred frame and the
reference image of the background. Perform thresholding, smoothing, and
contour detection on the differenced image. Draw and show the bounding
boxes of the major contours.
The use of a Gaussian blur should make our background subtractor less
susceptible to small vibrations, as well as digital noise. We will also use
morphological operations for the same purpose.
To blur images, we will use the Gaussian blur algorithm, which we originally
discussed in Chapter 3 , Processing Images with OpenCV , specifically in the
HPFs and LPFs section. To smooth thresholded images, we will use
morphological erosion and dilation, which we originally discussed in Chapter 4 ,
Depth Estimation and Segmentation , specifically in the Image segmentation with
the Watershed algorithm section. Contour detection and bounding boxes are also
among the topics we introduced in Chapter 3 , Processing Images with OpenCV ,
specifically in the Contour detection section.
Expanding the preceding list into smaller steps, we can consider our script's
implementation in eight sequential blocks of code:
1. Let's begin by importing OpenCV and defining the size of our kernels for the
blur , erode , and dilate operations:
1. Now, let's try to capture 10 frames from a camera:
1. If we were unable to capture 10 frames, we exit. Otherwise, we proceed to
convert the 10 th frame to grayscale and blur it:
1. At this stage, we have our reference image of the background. Now, let's
proceed to capture more frames, in which we may detect motion. Our
processing of each frame begins with grayscale conversion and a Gaussian
blur operation:
1. Now, we can compare the blurred, grayscale version of the current frame to
the blurred, grayscale version of the background image. Specifically, we will
use OpenCV's cv2.absdiff function to find the absolute value (or the
magnitude) of the difference between these two images. Then, we will apply
a threshold to obtain a pure black-and-white image, and morphological
operations to smooth the thresholded image. Here is the relevant code:

--- Strana 202 ---
1. At this point, if our technique has worked well, our thresholded image
should contain white blobs wherever there is a moving object. Now, we want
to find the contours of the white blobs and draw bounding boxes around
them. As a further means of filtering out small changes that are probably not
real objects, we will apply a threshold based on the area of the contour. If the
contour is too small, we conclude that it is not a real moving object. (Of
course, the definition of too small may vary depending on your camera's
resolution and your application; in some circumstances, you might not wish
to apply this test at all.) Here is the code to detect contours and draw
bounding boxes:
1. Now, let's show the differenced image, the thresholded image, and the
detection result with the bounding rectangles:
1. We will continue reading frames until the user presses the Esc key to quit:
There you have it: a basic motion detector that draws rectangles around moving
objects. The final result is something like this:

--- Strana 203 ---
Figure 8.1: A moving pen and moving person, detected using a basic
background subtractor
To obtain good results with this script, make sure that you (and other moving
objects) do not enter the camera's field of view until after the background
image has been initialized.
For such a simple technique, this result is quite promising. However, our script
makes no effort to update the background image dynamically, so it will quickly
become outdated if the camera moves or the lighting changes. Thus, we should
move on to more flexible and intelligent background subtractors. Fortunately,
OpenCV provides several ready-made background subtractors for our use. We
will start with the one that implements the MOG algorithm.
Using a MOG background subtractor
OpenCV provides a class called cv2.BackgroundSubtractor , which has various
subclasses that implement various background subtraction algorithms.
You may recall that we previously used OpenCV's implementation of the
GrabCut algorithm to perform foreground/background segmentation in Chapter 4
, Depth Estimation and Segmentation , specifically in the Foreground detection
with the GrabCut algorithm section. Like cv2.grabCut , the various subclass
implementations of cv2.BackgroundSubtractor can produce a mask that assigns
different values to different segments of the image. Specifically, a background
subtractor can mark foreground segments as white (that is, an 8-bit grayscale
value of 255), background segments as black (0), and (in some implementations)
shadow segments as gray (127). Moreover, unlike GrabCut, the background
subtractors update the foreground/background model over time, typically by
applying machine learning to a series of frames. Many of the background
subtractors are named after the statistical clustering technique on which they base
their approach to machine learning. We will begin by looking at a background
subtractor based on the MOG clustering technique.
OpenCV has two implementations of a MOG background subtractor. Perhaps not
surprisingly, they are named cv2.bgsegm.BackgroundSubtractorMOG and
cv2.BackgroundSubtractorMOG2 . The latter is a more recent and improved
implementation, which adds support for shadow detection, so we will use it.

--- Strana 204 ---
As a starting point, let's take our basic background subtraction script from the
previous section. We will make the following modifications to it:
1. Replace our basic background subtraction model with a MOG background
subtractor.
2. As input, use a video file instead of a camera.
3. Remove the use of Gaussian blur.
4. Adjust the parameters used in the thresholding, morphology, and contour
analysis steps.
5. Get and show the MOG subtractor’s model of the background.
These modifications affect a few lines of code, which are scattered throughout the
script. Near the top of the script, let's initialize the MOG background subtractor
and modify the size of the morphology kernels, as highlighted in the following
code block:
Note that OpenCV provides a function, cv2.createBackgroundSubtractorMOG2
, to create an instance of cv2.BackgroundSubtractorMOG2 . The function accepts
a parameter, detectShadows , which we set to True so that the shadow regions
will be marked as such and not marked as part of the foreground.
The remaining changes, including the use of the MOG background subtractor to
obtain a foreground/shadow/background mask, are highlighted in the following
code block:
When we pass a frame to the background subtractor's apply method, the
subtractor updates its internal model of the background and then returns a mask.
As we previously discussed, the mask is white ( 255 ) for foreground segments,
gray ( 127 ) for shadow segments, and black ( 0 ) for background segments. For
our purposes, we treat shadows as the background, so we apply a nearly white
threshold ( 244 ) to the mask.
To eliminate the thresholding step, we could configure the background
subtractor to color the shadows black (instead of gray). To do this, we would
use the subtractor’s setShadowValue method, as highlighted below:
However, for our learning purposes, it is good to see a visualization of the
shadows in gray before we filter them out.
The following set of screenshots shows a mask from the MOG detector (the top-
left panel), a thresholded and morphed version of this mask (top-right), the model

--- Strana 205 ---
of the background (bottom-left), and the detection result (bottom-right):
Figure 8.2: A moving person, detected using a MOG background
subtractor
This scene contains not only shadows but also reflections due to the polished
floor and wall. When shadow detection is enabled (as in the preceding
screenshots), we are able to use a threshold to remove the shadows and reflections
from our mask, leaving us with an accurate detection rectangle around the man in
the hall. For comparison, if we disabled shadow detection by setting
detectShadows=False , we would get results such as the following set of
screenshots:

--- Strana 206 ---
Figure 8.3: A moving person and moving reflections, detected using a
MOG background subtractor
Now, with shadow detection disabled, we have two detections, which are both,
arguably, inaccurate. One detection covers the man, his shadow, and his reflection
on the floor. The second detection covers the man's reflection on the wall. These
are, arguably , inaccurate detections because the man's shadow and reflections are
not really moving objects, even though they are visual artifacts of a moving
object.
So far, we have seen that a background subtraction script can be very concise and
that a few small changes can drastically change the algorithm and the results, for
better or worse. Continuing in the same vein, let's see how easily we can adapt
our code to use another of OpenCV's advanced background subtractors to find
another kind of moving object.
Using a KNN background subtractor

--- Strana 207 ---
By modifying just five lines of code in our MOG background subtraction script,
we can use a different background subtraction algorithm, different morphology
parameters, and a different video as input. Thanks to the high-level interface that
OpenCV provides, even such simple changes enable us to successfully handle a
wide variety of background subtraction tasks.
Just by replacing cv2.createBackgroundSubtractorMOG2 with
cv2.createBackgroundSubtractorKNN , we can use a background subtractor
based on KNN clustering instead of MOG clustering:
Note that despite the change in algorithm, the detectShadows parameter is still
supported, as is the setShadowValue method. Additionally, the apply and
getBackgroundImage methods are still supported, so we do not need to change
anything related to the use of the background subtractor later in the script.
Remember that cv2.createBackgroundSubtractorMOG2 returns a new
instance of the cv2.BackgroundSubtractorMOG2 class. Similarly,
cv2.createBackgroundSubtractorKNN returns a new instance of the
cv2.BackgroundSubtractorKNN class. Both of these classes are subclasses
of cv2.BackgroundSubtractor , which defines common methods such as
apply .
With the following changes, we can use morphology kernels that are slightly
better adapted to a horizontally elongated object (in this case, a car), and we can
use a video of traffic as input:
To reflect the change in algorithm, let's change the title of the mask's window
from 'mog' to 'knn' :
The following set of screenshots shows the result of motion detection:

--- Strana 208 ---
Figure 8.4: Moving cars, detected using a KNN background subtractor
The KNN background subtractor has worked quite well here, thanks in part to its
ability to differentiate between objects and shadows. All cars have been
individually detected; even though some cars are close to each other, they have
not been merged into one detection. For three out of the five cars, the detection
rectangles are accurate. For the dark car in the bottom-left part of the video frame,
the background subtractor has failed to fully differentiate the rear of the car from
the asphalt. For the white car at the top of the frame, the background subtractor
has failed to fully differentiate the car and its shadow from the white markings on
the road. Such problems could possibly be addressed by fine-tuning the
morphology and threshold parameters, or by performing further analysis on the
detected contours and surrounding regions based on the expected shape of a
vehicle. Nonetheless, overall, this is a useful detection result that could enable us
to count the number of cars traveling in each lane.

--- Strana 209 ---
As we have seen, a few simple variations on a script can produce very different
background subtraction results. Let's consider how we could further explore this
observation.
Using GMG and other background subtractors
You are free to experiment with your own modifications to our background
subtraction script. If you have obtained OpenCV with the optional
opencv_contrib modules, as described in Chapter 1 , Setting Up OpenCV , then
several more background subtractors are available to you in the cv2.bgsegm
module. They can be created using the following functions:
cv2.bgsegm.createBackgroundSubtractorCNT
cv2.bgsegm.createBackgroundSubtractorGMG
cv2.bgsegm.createBackgroundSubtractorGSOC
cv2.bgsegm.createBackgroundSubtractorLSBP
cv2.bgsegm.createBackgroundSubtractorMOG
These functions do not support the detectShadows parameter, and they create
background subtractors that do not support shadow detection. However, all the
background subtractors support the apply method.
As these types of background subtractors do not support shadow detection,
they do not support the setShadowValue method. Moreover, some of them,
including the GMG subtractor, do not support the getBackgroundImage
method.
As an example of how to modify our background subtraction sample to use one of
the cv2.bgsegm subtractors in the preceding list, let's use a GMG background
subtractor. The relevant modifications are highlighted in the following block of
code:
Note the modifications are similar to the ones we saw in the previous section,
Using a KNN background subtractor . We simply use a different function to
create the GMG subtractor, we adjust the morphology kernels' sizes to values that
work better for this algorithm, and we change one of the window titles to 'gmg' .
The GMG algorithm is named after its authors, Andrew B. Godbehere,
Akihiro Matsukawa, and Ken Goldberg. They describe it in their paper,
Visual tracking of human visitors under variable-lighting conditions for a

--- Strana 210 ---
responsive audio art installation (ACC, 2012), which is available at
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6315174 . The GMG background
subtractor takes a few frames to initialize itself before it starts producing a
mask with white (object) regions.
Compared to the KNN background subtractor, the GMG background subtractor
produces worse results with our sample video of traffic. This is partly because
OpenCV's implementation of GMG does not differentiate between shadows and
solid objects, so the detection rectangles are elongated in the direction of the cars'
shadows or reflections. Here is a sample of the output:
Figure 8.5: Moving cars, detected using a GMG background subtractor
When you are finished experimenting with background subtractors, let's proceed
to examine other tracking techniques that rely on a template of an object we are
trying to track, rather than a template of the background.

--- Strana 211 ---
Tracking colorful objects using
MeanShift and CamShift
We have seen that background subtraction can be an effective technique for
detecting moving objects; however, we know that it has some inherent
limitations. Notably, it assumes that the current background can be predicted
based on past frames. This assumption is fragile. For example, if the camera
moves, the entire background model could suddenly become outdated. Thus, in a
robust tracking system, it is important to build some kind of model of foreground
objects rather than just the background.
We saw various ways of detecting objects in Chapter 5 , Detecting and
Recognizing Faces , Chapter 6 , Retrieving Images and Searching Using Image
Descriptors , and Chapter 7 , Building Custom Object Detectors . For object
detection , we favored algorithms that could deal with a lot of variation within a
class of objects, so that our car detector was not too particular about what shape
or color of car it would detect. For object tracking , our needs are a bit different.
If we were tracking cars, we would want a different model for each car in the
scene so that a red car and a blue car would not get mixed up. We would want to
track the motion of each car separately.
Once we have detected a moving object (by background subtraction or other
means), we would like to describe the object in a way that distinguishes it from
other moving objects. In this way, we can continue to identify and track the object
even if it crosses paths with another moving object. A color histogram may serve
as a sufficiently unique description. Essentially, an object's color histogram is an
estimate of the probability distribution of pixel colors in the object. For example,
the histogram could indicate that each pixel in the object is 10% likely to be blue.
The histogram is based on the actual colors observed in the object's region of a
reference image. For example, the reference image could be the video frame in
which we first detected the moving object.
Compared to other ways of describing an object, a color histogram has some
properties that are particularly appealing in the context of motion tracking. The
histogram serves as a lookup table that directly maps pixel values to probabilities,
so it enables us to use every pixel as a feature, at a low computational cost. In this
way, we can afford to perform tracking with very fine spatial resolution in real

--- Strana 212 ---
time. To find the most likely location of an object that we are tracking, we just
have to find the region of interest where the pixel values map to the maximum
probability, according to the histogram.
Naturally, this approach is leveraged by an algorithm with a catchy name:
MeanShift. For each frame in a video, the MeanShift algorithm performs tracking
iteratively by computing a centroid based on probability values in the current
tracking rectangle, shifting the rectangle's center to this centroid, recomputing the
centroid based on values in the new rectangle, shifting the rectangle again, and so
on. This process continues until convergence is achieved (meaning that the
centroid ceases to move or nearly ceases to move) or until a maximum number of
iterations is reached. Essentially, MeanShift is a clustering algorithm with
applications that extend beyond computer vision. The algorithm was first
described in a paper entitled The estimation of the gradient of a density function,
with applications in pattern recognition (IEEE Transactions on Information
Theory, 1975), by K. Fukunaga and L. Hostetler. The paper is available to IEEE
subscribers at https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/1055330 .
Before delving into a sample script, let's consider the type of tracking result we
want to achieve with MeanShift, and let's learn more about OpenCV's
functionality pertaining to color histograms.
Planning our MeanShift sample
For our first demonstration of MeanShift, we are not concerned with the approach
to the initial detection of moving objects. We will use a naive approach that
simply chooses the central part of the first video frame as our initial region of
interest. (The user must ensure that an object of interest is initially located in the
center of the video.) We will calculate a histogram of this initial region of interest.
Then, in subsequent frames, we will use this histogram and the MeanShift
algorithm to track the object.
Visually, the MeanShift demo will resemble many of the object detection samples
that we have previously written. For every frame, we will draw a blue outline
around the tracking rectangle, as shown here:

--- Strana 213 ---
Figure 8.6: A toy phone with a distinctive lilac hue, tracked using
histogram back-projection and MeanShift
Here, the toy phone has a lilac color that is not present in any other object in the
scene. Thus, the phone has a distinctive histogram, making it easy to track. Next,
let's consider how such a histogram is calculated and then used as a lookup table
of probabilities.
Calculating and back-projecting color histograms
To calculate a color histogram, OpenCV provides a function called cv2.calcHist
. To apply a histogram as a lookup table, OpenCV provides another function
called cv2.calcBackProject . The latter operation is known as histogram back-
projection , and it transforms a given image into a probability map based on a
given histogram. Let's first visualize the output of these two functions, and then
examine their parameters.

--- Strana 214 ---
A histogram can use any color model, such as blue-green-red ( BGR ), hue-
saturation-value ( HSV ), or grayscale. (For an introduction to color models,
refer to Chapter 3 , Processing Images with OpenCV , specifically the Converting
images between different color models section.) For our samples, we will use the
histograms of only the hue (H) channel of the HSV color model. The following
diagram is a visualization of a hue histogram:
Figure 8.7: A visualization of a hue histogram. This is a sample of the
output from an image-viewing application called DPEx
(https://www.rysys.co.jp/dpex/en/).
On the x axis of this plot, we have the hue, and on the y axis, we have the hue's
estimated probability or, in other words, the proportion of pixels in the image that
have the given hue. If you are reading the e-book edition of this book, you will
see that the plot is color-coded according to hue. From left to right, the plot
progresses through the hues of the color wheel: red, yellow, green, cyan, blue,
magenta, and, finally, back to red. This particular histogram seems to represent an
object with a lot of yellow in it.
OpenCV represents H values with a range from 0 to 179, which, unfortunately, is
a tad less precise than a typical HSV representation. Some other systems use a
wider (more precise) range from 0 to 359 (like the degrees of a circle) or from 0
to 255 (to match the range of one byte).
Some caution is required in interpreting hue histograms because pure black
and pure white pixels do not have a meaningful hue; however, their hue is
usually represented as 0 (red).

--- Strana 215 ---
When we use cv2.calcHist to generate a hue histogram, it returns a 1D array
that is conceptually similar to the preceding plot. Alternatively, depending on the
parameters we provide, we could use cv2.calcHist to generate a histogram of a
different channel or of two channels at once. In the latter case, cv2.calcHist
would return a 2D array.
Once we have a histogram, we can back-project the histogram onto any image.
cv2.calcBackProject produces a back-projection in the format of an 8-bit
grayscale image, with pixel values that potentially range from 0 (indicating a low
probability) to 255 (indicating a high probability), depending on how we scale the
values. For example, consider the following pair of photographs, showing a back-
projection and then a visualization of the MeanShift tracking result:

--- Strana 216 ---
Figure 8.8: A coaster with distinctive yellow, red, and brown hues,
tracked using histogram back-projection and MeanShift
Here, we are tracking a small object whose main colors are yellow, red, and
brown. The back-projection is brightest in regions that are actually part of the
object. The back-projection is also somewhat bright in other regions of similar

--- Strana 217 ---
color, such as Joseph Howse's brown beard, the yellow rims of his glasses, and
the red border of one of the posters in the background.
Now that we have visualized the outputs of cv2.calcHist and
cv2.calcBackProject , let's examine the parameters that these functions accept.
Understanding the parameters of cv2.calcHist
The cv2.calcHist function has the following signature:
The following table contains descriptions of the parameters (adapted from the
official OpenCV documentation):
Parameter
Description
images
This parameter is a list of one or more source images. They should
all have the same bit depth (8-bit, 16-bit, or 32-bit) and the same
size.
channels
This parameter is a list of the indices of the channels used to
compute the histogram. For example, channels=[0] means that
only the first channel (that is, the channel with index 0 ) is used to
compute the histogram.
mask
This parameter is a mask. If it is None , no masking is performed;
every region of the images is used in the histogram calculation. If it
is not None , then it must be an 8-bit array of the same size as each
image in images . The mask's nonzero elements mark the regions of
the images that should be used in the histogram calculation.
histSize
This parameter is a list of the number of histogram bins to use for
each channel. The length of the histSize list must be the same as
the length of the channels list. For example, if channels=[0] and
histSize=[180] , the histogram has 180 bins for the first channel
(and any other channels are unused).
ranges
This parameter is a list that specifies the ranges of values to use for
each channel. Each range is inclusive of the lower bound but
exclusive of the upper bound. The length of the ranges list must be
twice the length of the channels list. For example, if channels=
[0], histSize=[180] , and ranges=[0, 180] , the histogram has
180 bins for the first channel, and these bins are based on values in
the range from 0 to 179; in other words, there is one input value per
bin.

--- Strana 218 ---
hist
This optional parameter is the output histogram. If it is None (the
default), a new array will be returned as the output histogram.
accumulate
This optional parameter is the accumulate flag. By default, it is
False . If it is True , then the original content of hist is not
cleared; instead, the new histogram is added to the original content
of hist . This feature enables you to compute a single histogram
from several lists of images, or to update the histogram over time.
In our samples, we will calculate the hue histogram of a region of interest like so:
Next, let's consider the parameters of cv2.calcBackProject .
Understanding the parameters of cv2.calcBackProject
The cv2.calcBackProject function has the following signature:
The following table contains descriptions of the parameters (adapted from the
official OpenCV documentation):
Parameter Description
images
This parameter is a list of one or more source images. They all should
have the same bit depth (8-bit, 16-bit, or 32-bit) and the same size.
channels This parameter must be the same as the channels parameter used in
calcHist .
hist
This parameter is the histogram.
ranges
This parameter must be the same as the ranges parameter used in
calcHist .
scale
This parameter is a scale factor. The back-projection is multiplied by
this scale factor.
dst
This optional parameter is the output back-projection. If it is None
(the default), a new array will be returned as the back-projection.
In our samples, we will use code similar to the following line to back-project a
hue histogram on to an HSV image:
Having examined the cv2.calcHist and cv2.calcBackProject functions in
detail, let's now put them into action in a script that performs tracking with
MeanShift.

--- Strana 219 ---
Implementing the MeanShift example
Let's go sequentially through the implementation of our MeanShift example:
1. Like our basic background subtraction example, our MeanShift example
begins by capturing (and discarding) several frames from a camera so that
the autoexposure can adjust:
1. By the 10 th frame, we assume that the exposure is good; therefore, we can
extract an accurate histogram of a region of interest. The following code
defines the bounds of the region of interest ( ROI ):
1. Then, the following code selects the ROI's pixels and converts them to the
HSV color space:
1. Next, we calculate the hue histogram of the ROI:
1. After the histogram is calculated, we normalize the values to a range from 0
to 255:
1. Remember that MeanShift performs a number of iterations before reaching
convergence; however, this convergence is not assured. Thus, OpenCV
allows us to specify the so-called termination criteria. Let's define the
termination criteria as follows:
Based on these criteria, MeanShift will stop calculating the centroid shift after 10
iterations (the count criterion) or when the shift is no longer larger than 1 pixel
(the epsilon criterion). The combination of flags ( cv2.TERM_CRITERIA_COUNT |
cv2.TERM_CRITERIA_EPS ) indicates that we are using both of these criteria.
1. Now that we have calculated a histogram and defined MeanShift's
termination criteria, let's start our usual loop in which we capture and
process frames from the camera. With each frame, the first thing we do is
convert it to the HSV color space:
1. Now that we have an HSV image, we can perform the long-awaited
operation of histogram back-projection:
1. The back-projection, the tracking window, and the termination criteria can
be passed to cv2.meanShift , which is OpenCV's implementation of the
MeanShift algorithm. Here is the function call:

--- Strana 220 ---
Note that MeanShift returns the number of iterations that it ran, as well as
the new tracking window that it found. Optionally, we could compare the
number of iterations to our termination criteria in order to determine whether
the result converged. (If the actual number of iterations is less than the
maximum, the result must have converged.)
1. Finally, we draw and show the updated tracking rectangle:
That is the whole example. If you run the program, it should produce an output
that is similar to the screenshots we saw earlier, in the Calculating and back-
projecting color histograms section.
By now, you should have a good idea of how color histograms, back-projections,
and MeanShift work. However, the preceding program (and MeanShift in
general) has a limitation: the size of the window does not change with the size of
the object in the frames being tracked.
Gary Bradski – one of the founders of the OpenCV project – published a paper in
1998 to improve the accuracy of MeanShift. He described a new algorithm called
Continuously Adaptive MeanShift ( CAMShift or CamShift ), which is very
similar to MeanShift but also adapts the size of the tracking window when
MeanShift reaches convergence. Let's take a look at an example of CamShift
next.
Using CamShift
Although CamShift is a more complex algorithm than MeanShift, OpenCV
provides a very similar interface for the two algorithms. The main difference is
that a call to cv2.CamShift returns a rectangle with a particular rotation that
follows the rotation of the object being tracked. With just a few modifications to
the preceding MeanShift example, we can instead use CamShift and draw a
rotated tracking rectangle. All of the necessary changes are highlighted in the
following excerpt:
The arguments to cv2.CamShift are unchanged; they have the same meanings
and the same values as the arguments to cv2.meanShift in our previous
example.
We use the cv2.boxPoints function to find the vertices of the rotated tracking
rectangle. Then, we use the cv2.polylines function to draw the lines connecting

--- Strana 221 ---
these vertices. The following screenshot shows the result:
Figure 8.9: A coaster with distinctive yellow, red, and brown hues,
tracked using histogram back-projection and CamShift
By now, you should be familiar with two families of tracking techniques. The first
family uses background subtraction. The second uses histogram back-projection,
combined with either MeanShift or CamShift. Now, let's meet the Kalman filter,
which exemplifies a third family; it finds trends or, in other words, predicts future
motion based on past motion.

--- Strana 222 ---
Finding trends in motion using the
Kalman filter
The Kalman filter is an algorithm developed mainly (but not exclusively) by
Rudolf Kalman in the late 1950s. It has found practical applications in many
fields, particularly navigation systems for all sorts of vehicles, from nuclear
submarines to aircraft.
The Kalman filter operates recursively on a stream of noisy input data to produce
a statistically optimal estimate of the underlying system state. In the context of
computer vision, the Kalman filter can smooth the estimate of a tracked object's
position.
Let's consider a simple example. Think of a small red ball on a table and imagine
you have a camera pointing at the scene. You identify the ball as the subject to be
tracked and flick it with your fingers. The ball will start rolling on the table in
accordance with the laws of motion.
If the ball is rolling at a constant speed of 1 meter per second in a particular
direction, it is easy to estimate where the ball will be in 1 second's time: it will be
1 meter away. The Kalman filter applies laws such as this to predict an object's
position in the current video frame based on tracking results gathered in previous
frames. The Kalman filter itself is not gathering these tracking results, but it is
updating its model of the object's motion based on the tracking results derived
from another algorithm – in our case, a visual tracking algorithm such as
MeanShift. The tracking algorithm produces results that are (probably) noisy but
(hopefully) unbiased ; that is to say, its errors do not tend toward any particular
direction. Conversely, it is the Kalman filter’s role to smooth these results, to
make them less noisy, at the risk of biasing the results based by seeking a trend to
fit an idealized model of motion.
Naturally, the Kalman filter cannot foresee new forces acting on the ball – such as
a collision with a pencil lying on the table – but it can update its model of the
ball’s motion after the fact, when new tracking results deviate significantly from
what the Kalman filter would have predicted. Through the use of the Kalman
filter, we can obtain estimates that are more stable and more consistent with the
laws of motion than the tracking results alone. This stabilization is usually a good

--- Strana 223 ---
thing, but be aware that the stabilized results may lag behind reality when a
tracked object changes course.
Understanding the predict and update phases
From the preceding description, we gather that the Kalman filter's algorithm has
two phases:
Predict : In the first phase, the Kalman filter uses the covariance calculated
up to the current point in time to estimate the object's new position.
Update : In the second phase, the Kalman filter records the object's position
and adjusts the covariance for the next cycle of calculations.
The update phase is – in OpenCV's terms – a correction . Thus, OpenCV
provides a cv2.KalmanFilter class with the following methods:
For the purpose of smoothly tracking objects, we will call the predict method to
estimate the position of an object, and then use the correct method to instruct
the Kalman filter to adjust its calculations based on a new tracking result from
another algorithm such as MeanShift. However, before we combine the Kalman
filter with a computer vision algorithm, let's examine how it performs with
position data from a simple motion sensor.
Tracking a mouse cursor
Motion sensors have been commonplace in user interfaces for a long time. A
computer's mouse senses its own motion relative to a surface such as a table. The
mouse is a real, physical object, so it is reasonable to apply the laws of motion in
order to predict changes in mouse coordinates. We are going to do exactly this as
a demo of the Kalman filter.
Our demo will implement the following sequence of operations:
1. Start by initializing a black image and a Kalman filter. Show the black image
in a window.
2. Every time the windowed application processes input events, use the
Kalman filter to predict the mouse's position. Then, correct the Kalman
filter's model based on the actual mouse coordinates. On top of the black
image, draw a red line from the old predicted position to the new predicted

--- Strana 224 ---
position, and then draw a green line from the old actual position to the new
actual position. Show the drawing in the window.
3. When the user hits the Esc key, exit and save the drawing to a file.
To begin the script, the following code initializes an 800 x 800 black image:
Now, let's initialize the Kalman filter:
Based on the preceding initialization, our Kalman filter will track a 2D object's
position and velocity. We will take a deeper look at the process of initializing a
Kalman filter in Chapter 9 , Camera Models and Augmented Reality , where we
will track a 3D object's position, velocity, acceleration, rotation, angular velocity,
and angular acceleration. For now, let's just take note of the two parameters in
cv2.KalmanFilter(4, 2) . The first parameter is the number of variables
tracked (or predicted) by the Kalman filter, in this case, 4 : the x position, the y
position, the x velocity, and the y velocity. The second parameter is the number of
variables provided to the Kalman filter as measurements, in this case, 2 : the x
position and the y position. We also initialize several matrices that describe the
relationships among all these variables.
Having initialized the image and the Kalman filter, we also have to declare
variables to hold the actual (measured) and predicted mouse coordinates. Initially,
we have no coordinates, so we will assign None to these variables:
Then, we declare a callback function that handles mouse movement. This
function is going to update the state of the Kalman filter, and draw a visualization
of both the unfiltered mouse movement and the Kalman-filtered mouse
movement. The first time we receive mouse coordinates, we initialize the Kalman
filter's state so that its initial prediction is the same as the actual initial mouse
coordinates. (If we did not do this, the Kalman filter would assume that the initial
mouse position was (0, 0) .) Subsequently, whenever we receive new mouse
coordinates, we correct the Kalman filter with the current measurement, calculate
the Kalman prediction, and, finally, draw two lines: a green line from the last
measurement to the current measurement and a red line from the last prediction to
the current prediction. Here is the callback function's implementation:
The next step is to initialize the window and pass our callback function to the
cv2.setMouseCallback function:
Since most of the program's logic is in the mouse callback, the implementation of
the main loop is simple. We just continually show the updated image until the

--- Strana 225 ---
user hits the Esc key:
Run the program and move your mouse around. If you make a sudden turn at high
speed, you will notice that the prediction line (in red) will trace a wider curve
than the measurement line (in green). This is because the prediction is following
the momentum of the mouse's movement up to that time. Here is a sample result:
Figure 8.10: A drawing based on the movement of a computer mouse;
the green line is actual movement and the red line is a Kalman filter’s
prediction of the movement
Perhaps the preceding diagram will give us inspiration for our next sample
application, in which we track pedestrians.

--- Strana 226 ---
Tracking pedestrians
Up to this point, we have familiarized ourselves with the concepts of
motion detection, object detection, and object tracking. You are probably
anxious to put this newfound knowledge to good use in a real-life scenario.
Let's do just that by tracking pedestrians in a video from a surveillance
camera.
You can find a surveillance video inside the OpenCV repository at
samples/data/vtest.avi . A copy of this video is located inside this
book's GitHub repository at vidoesvidoes/pedestrians.avi .
Let's lay out a plan and then implement the application!
Planning the flow of the application
The application will adhere to the following logic:
1. Capture frames from a video file.
2. Use the first 20 frames to populate the history of a background
subtractor.
3. Based on background subtraction, use the 21 st frame to identify
moving foreground objects. We will treat these as pedestrians. For
each pedestrian, assign an ID and an initial tracking window, and then
calculate a histogram.
4. For each subsequent frame, track each pedestrian using a Kalman filter
and MeanShift.
If this were a real-world application, you would probably store a record of
each pedestrian's route through the scene so that a user could analyze it
later. However, this type of record-keeping is beyond the remit of this
example.
Additionally, in a real-world application, you would make sure to identify
new pedestrians entering the scene; however, for now, we will focus on

--- Strana 227 ---
tracking only those objects that are in the scene near the start of the video.
You will find the code for this application inside the book's GitHub
repository at chapter08/track_pedestrians.py . Before examining the
implementation, let's briefly digress to consider programming paradigms
and how they relate to our use of OpenCV.
Comparing the object-oriented and functional
paradigms
Although most programmers are either familiar (or work on a constant
basis) with OOP, another paradigm called FP has, for many years, been
gaining support among programmers who favor a purer mathematical
foundation.
The works of Samuel Howse demonstrate a specification of a
programming language with a pure mathematical foundation. You can
find his doctoral thesis, NummSquared 2006a0 Explained , at
https://nummist.com/poohbist/NummSquared2006a0Explained.pdf ,
and his paper, NummSquared: a New Foundation for Formal Methods
, at https://nummist.com/poohbist/NummSquaredFormalMethods.pdf .
FP treats programs as the evaluation of mathematical functions, allows
functions to return functions, and permits functions as arguments in a
function. The strength of FP resides not only in what it can do, but also in
what it can avoid, or aims at avoiding: for example, side effects and
changing states. If the topic of FP has sparked an interest, make sure that
you take a look at languages such as Haskell , Clojure , or Meta Language
( ML ).
So, what is a side effect in programming terms? A function is said to
have side effects if it produces any changes that are accessible outside
its local scope, except for its return values. Python, like many other
languages, is susceptible to side effects because it allows you to gain
access to member variables and global variables – and, sometimes, this
access can be accidental!

--- Strana 228 ---
In languages that are not purely functional, a function's output can vary
even when we pass it the same parameters repeatedly. For example, if a
function takes an object as an argument, and the computation relies on the
internal state of that object, the function will return different results
according to changes in the object's state. This is a common occurrence in
OOP with languages such as Python and C++.
So, why this digression? Well, it is a good occasion to consider the
paradigms used in our own samples and in OpenCV, and how they differ
from a purer mathematical approach. Throughout this book, we have often
used global variables or object-oriented classes with member variables. The
next program is another example of OOP. OpenCV, too, contains many
functions with side effects and many object-oriented classes.
For example, any OpenCV drawing function, such as cv2.rectangle or
cv2.circle , modifies the image that we pass to it as an argument. This
approach contravenes one of FP's cardinal rules: avoid side effects and
changes in state.
As a brief exercise, let's wrap cv2.rectangle in another Python function to
perform a drawing in an FP style, without any side effects. The following
implementation relies on making a copy of the input image, rather than
modifying the original:
This approach – while computationally more expensive due to the copy
operation – allows for code such as the following to run without side
effects:
Here, frame and frame_with_rect are references to two different NumPy
arrays containing different values. If we had used cv2.rectangle instead
of our FP-inspired draw_rect wrapper, then frame and frame_with_rect
would have been references to one and the same NumPy array (containing a
drawing of a rectangle on top of the original image).
To conclude this digression, let's note that a variety of programming
languages and paradigms can be applied successfully to computer vision
problems. It is useful to know about multiple languages and paradigms so
that you can choose the right tool for a given job.

--- Strana 229 ---
Now, let's get back to our program and explore the implementation of a
surveillance application, tracking moving objects in a video.
Implementing the Pedestrian class
The nature of the Kalman filter provides the main rationale for creating a
Pedestrian class. The Kalman filter can predict the position of an object
based on historical observations and can correct the prediction based on the
actual data, but it can only do this for one object. As a consequence, we
need one Kalman filter per object tracked.
Each Pedestrian object will act as a holder for a Kalman filter, a color
histogram (calculated on the first detection of the object and used as a
reference for the subsequent frames), and a tracking window, which will be
used by the MeanShift algorithm. Furthermore, each pedestrian has an ID,
which we will display so that we can easily distinguish between all of the
pedestrians being tracked.
This time, instead of using just a hue histogram, we will use a 2D histogram
of hue and value. Hue alone is not a great choice for tracking pedestrians
because we do not necessarily expect to find a wide range of rainbow hues
in the human form or in typical streetwear. Of course, a pedestrian with
purple hair or a neon orange jacket might have a very distinctive hue
histogram, yet many pedestrians would not. The addition of a value (or
brightness) dimension may help to further distinguish pedestrians from each
other and from typical backgrounds such as gray cement.
Let's proceed sequentially through the class's implementation:
1. As arguments, the Pedestrian class's constructor takes an ID, an
initial frame in HSV format, and an initial tracking window. Here are
the declarations of the class and its constructor:
1. To begin the constructor's implementation, we define variables for the
ID, the tracking window, and the MeanShift algorithm's termination
criteria:

--- Strana 230 ---
1. We proceed by creating a normalized hue and value histogram of the
region of interest in the initial HSV image:
1. Then, we initialize the Kalman filter:
Like in our mouse tracking example, we are configuring the Kalman filter
to predict the motion of a 2D point. As the initial point, we use the center of
the initial tracking window. This concludes the implementation of the
constructor.
1. The Pedestrian class also has an update method, which we will call
once per frame. As arguments, the update method takes a BGR frame
(to use when we draw a visualization of the tracking result) and an
HSV version of the same frame (to use for histogram back-projection).
The implementation of the update method begins with familiar code
for histogram back-projection and MeanShift, as displayed in the
following lines:
1. Note that we have extracted the tracking window's center coordinates
because we want to perform Kalman filtering on them. We proceed to
do exactly this, and then we update the tracking window so that it is
centered on the corrected coordinates:
1. To conclude the update method, we draw the Kalman filter's
prediction as a blue circle, the corrected tracking window as a cyan
rectangle, and the pedestrian's ID as blue text above the rectangle:
This is all the functionality and data that we need to associate with an
individual pedestrian. Next, we need to implement a program that provides
the necessary video frames to create and update Pedestrian objects.
Implementing the main function
Now that we have a Pedestrian class to maintain data about the tracking
of each pedestrian, let's implement our program's main function. We will
look at the parts of the implementation sequentially:

--- Strana 231 ---
1. We begin by loading a video file, initializing a background subtractor,
and setting the background subtractor's history length (that is, the
number of frames affecting the background model):
1. Then, we define morphology kernels:
1. We define a list called pedestrians , which is initially empty. A little
later, we will add Pedestrian objects to this list. We also set up a
frame counter, which we will use to determine whether enough frames
have elapsed to fill the background subtractor's history. Here are the
relevant definitions of the variables:
1. Now, we start a loop. At the start of each iteration, we try to read a
video frame. If this fails (for instance, at the end of the video file), we
exit the loop:
1. Proceeding with the body of the loop, we update the background
subtractor based on the newly captured frame. If the background
subtractor's history is not yet full, we simply continue to the next
iteration of the loop. Here is the relevant code:
1. Once the background subtractor's history is full, we do more
processing on each newly captured frame. Specifically, we apply the
same approach we used with background subtractors earlier in this
chapter: we perform thresholding, erosion, and dilation on the
foreground mask; and then we detect contours, which might be moving
objects:
1. We also convert the frame to HSV format because we intend to use
histograms in this format for MeanShift. The following line of code
performs the conversion:
1. Once we have contours and an HSV version of the frame, we are ready
to detect and track moving objects. We find and draw a bounding
rectangle for each contour that is large enough to be a pedestrian.
Moreover, if we have not yet populated the pedestrians list, we do so
now by adding a new Pedestrian object based on each bounding
rectangle (and the corresponding region of the HSV image). Here is

--- Strana 232 ---
the subloop that handles the contours in the manner we have just
described:
1. By now, we have a list of pedestrians whom we are tracking. We call
each Pedestrian object's update method, to which we pass the
original BGR frame (for use in drawing) and the HSV frame (for use
in tracking with MeanShift). Remember that each Pedestrian object
is responsible for drawing its own information (text, the tracking
rectangle, and the Kalman filter's prediction). Here is the subloop that
updates the pedestrians list:
1. Finally, we display the tracking results in a window, and we allow the
user to exit the program at any time by pressing the Esc key:
There you have it: MeanShift working in tandem with the Kalman filter to
track moving objects. All being well, you should see tracking results
visualized in the following manner:
Figure 8.8: A visualization of contour detection results (thin green
rectangle), Kalman-corrected MeanShift results (thick cyan
rectangle), and the Kalman prediction (blue dot) in a complex
tracker.
In this cropped screenshot, the green rectangle with the thin border is the
detected contour, the cyan rectangle with the thick border is the Kalman-
corrected MeanShift tracking rectangle, and the blue dot is the center
position predicted by the Kalman filter.

--- Strana 233 ---
As usual, feel free to experiment with the script. You may want to adjust the
parameters, try a MOG background subtractor instead of KNN, or try
CamShift instead of MeanShift. These changes should affect just a few lines
of code. When you have finished, next, we will consider other possible
modifications that might have a larger effect on the structure of the script.
Considering the next steps
The preceding program can be expanded and improved in various ways,
depending on the requirements of a particular application. Consider the
following examples:
You could remove a Pedestrian object from the pedestrians list
(and thereby destroy the Pedestrian object) if the Kalman filter
predicts the pedestrian's position to be outside the frame.
You could check whether each detected moving object corresponds to
an existing Pedestrian instance in the pedestrians list, and, if not,
add a new object to the list so that it will be tracked in subsequent
frames.
You could train a support vector machine ( SVM ) and use it to
classify each moving object. By these means, you could establish
whether or not the moving object is something you intend to track. For
instance, a dog might enter the scene but your application might
require the tracking of humans only. For more information on training
an SVM, refer to Chapter 7 , Building Custom Object Detectors .
You could adopt a tracking technique that is based on machine
learning, instead of using MeanShift (or CamShift) and a Kalman
filter. OpenCV provides easy-to-use implementations of several
machine learning trackers, with a common interface called
cv2.Tracker .
Let’s delve a little deeper into this last point. For this chapter’s final
exercise, we are going to modify our code, especially the Pedestrian class,
to use MILTrack as the tracking algorithm.
Modifying the pedestrian tracker to use MIL

--- Strana 234 ---
By its nature, a video of a moving object shows us many variations of that
object. For example, in some frames, we might see a person’s face and hair,
yet in other frames, we might see only the person’s hair because she has
turned her head away. Later, we might see the person’s upper face but not
her mouth or chin because she is drinking from a coffee mug. To track this
person’s head, it would be helpful to build a model of various segments
rather than just the whole. Over a series of several frames, the tracker could
learn that the features of the eyes, nose, mouth, and hair really are part of
this woman’s head, yet the coffee mug is not part of her head; it moves
separately.
This type of learning is, essentially, what MILTrack tries to do. MILTrack
breaks up the contents of the tracking window and nearby regions into
several patches or samples subsections, it detects features in each patch,
and it learns which of these local clusters of features do (or do not) move
together over time. Specifically, the algorithm uses a variant of Haar-like
features, which we previously encountered in Chapter 5 , Detecting and
Recognizing Faces . MILTrack was first described by B. Babenko, M. Yang,
and S. Belongie in their paper, Visual Tracking with Online Multiple
Instance Learning (CVPR, 2009). A copy can be downloaded from
https://faculty.ucmerced.edu/mhyang/papers/cvpr09a.pdf .
OpenCV implements MIL in a class called (not surprisingly)
cv2.TrackerMIL . To create an instance of this class, we can call the
cv2.TrackerMIL_create function, which has the following signature:
The optional parameters argument is an instance of
cv2.TrackerMIL_Params , which has the following properties:
featureSetNumFeatures : The maximum number of Haar features to
detect in each patch. The default is 250.
samplerInitInRadius : The pixel radius, beyond the tracking
window, to search for positive patches during initialization. The
default is 3.0.
samplerInitMaxNegNum : The maximum number of negative patches,
at the end of initialization. The default is 65.
samplerSearchWinSize : The pixel radius, beyond the tracking
window, to search for negative patches. The same value is used during

--- Strana 235 ---
initialization and updates. The default is 25.0.
samplerTrackInRadius : The pixel radius, beyond the tracking
window, to search for positive patches during updates. The default is
4.0.
samplerTrackMaxNegNum : The maximum number of negative patches,
at the end of each update. The default is 65.
samplerTrackMaxPosNum : The maximum number of positive patches,
at the end of each update. The default is 100,000.
After creating an instance of TrackerMIL , we can treat it as a black box; it
does not expose any further parameters that are specific to MIL. To use
TrackerMIL , we simply pass an initial frame and tracking window to its
init method, and subsequently we pass each new frame to its update
method, which returns an updated tracking window. The init and update
methods are part of the cv2.Tracker interface, which TrackerMIL
implements.
Let’s put MIL into action by modifying our pedestrian tracker. First, make a
copy of the script (the one containing the Pedestrian class and main
method) so that later, you can do a before-and-after comparison of the
tracking results. Then, modify the constructor of our Pedestrian class to
remove everything relating to histogram back-projection, CamShift, and the
Kalman filter; instead, just create and initialize a TrackerMIL . The changes
are highlighted in the following block of code:
Note that we have modified the constructor’s signature by removing the
hsv_frame argument. HSV data was relevant to our previous example
using histogram back-projection and CamShift; however, TrackerMIL
expects the input to be either BGR or grayscale frames.
Similarly, the Pedestrian class’s update function no longer has any
reason to take an HSV-converted frame as an argument. The original BGR
frame is the only thing we will need, and we will simply pass it on to the
underlying Tracker ’s update method, which returns an updated estimate
of the pedestrian’s bounding rectangle. The relevant changes to our code are
highlighted in the following block:

--- Strana 236 ---
Note that OpenCV’s design of a Tracker class, with an init function and
an update function, fits very well into our existing object-oriented design
of a class for a trackable object, the Pedestrian . By using these two
similarly-designed classes together, we have simplified the implementation
of the Pedestrian class.
Next, the main function has very minimal changes. We no longer need to
convert the frame to HSV, and a Pedestrian’s constructor and update
method no longer take an HSV frame as an argument. Note the highlighted
changes in the following code:
Run the old and new versions of the script and see how the results compare.
Afterward, you may wish to modify the Pedestrian class again to try some
of the other machine learning trackers that are implemented by OpenCV. All
you need to do is replace the call to cv2.TrackerMIL_create with one of
the following alternatives:
cv2.TrackerCSRT_create : This function returns a Tracker that
implements the Channel and Spatial Reliability Tracker (CSRT)
algorithm. For details of the algorithm, see the paper Discriminative
Correlation Filter with Channel and Spatial Reliability (IJCV, 2018),
by A. Lukežič, T. Vojíř, L. Zajc, J. Matas, and M. Kristan; it is
available at
https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_cvpr_2017/papers/Lukezic_Dis
criminative_Correlation_Filter_CVPR_2017_paper.pdf .
cv2.TrackerKCF_create : This function returns a Tracker that
implements the Kernelized Correlation Filter ( KCF ) algorithm. For
details, see the paper High-Speed Tracking with Kernelized
Correlation Filters (PAMI, 2015), by J. Henriques, R. Caseiro, P.
Martins, and J. Batista; it is available at
https://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~joao/publications/henriques_tpami2015.
pdf . Moreover, OpenCV’s implementation extends the algorithm to
support the kind of color features that are described in the paper
Adaptive Color Attributes for Real-Time Visual Tracking (CVPR,
2014), by M. Danelljan, F. Khan, M. Felsberg and J. van de Weijer.
The latter paper and its sample code are available at

--- Strana 237 ---
http://www.cvl.isy.liu.se/research/objrec/visualtracking/colvistrack/ind
ex.html .
These other Tracker*_create functions also support an optional
parameters argument, but with different fields than the ones in
TrackerMIL_Params . Refer to the OpenCV documentation for details
of the supported parameters in each case.
Whatever your needs, hopefully, this chapter has provided you with the
necessary knowledge to build 2D tracking applications that satisfy your
requirements.

--- Strana 238 ---
Summary
This chapter has dealt with video analysis and, in particular, a selection of
useful techniques for tracking objects.
We began by learning about background subtraction with a basic motion
detection technique that calculates frame differences. Then, we moved on to
more complex and efficient background subtraction algorithms – namely,
MOG and KNN – which are implemented in OpenCV's
cv2.BackgroundSubtractor class.
We then proceeded to explore the MeanShift and CamShift tracking
algorithms, using color histograms and back-projections. We also
familiarized ourselves with the Kalman filter and its usefulness in
smoothing the results of a tracking algorithm. Then, we put all of our
knowledge together in a sample surveillance application, which is capable
of tracking pedestrians (or other moving objects) in a video.
Finally, we saw that we can easily replace one set of tracking techniques
with another, in our object-oriented implementation of a pedestrian tracker.
We learned how to use OpenCV’s implementation of the MIL tracker and
other advanced trackers that are based on machine learning.
By now, our foundation in OpenCV, computer vision, and machine learning
is solidifying. We can look forward to several advanced topics in the next
three chapters of this book. We will extend our knowledge of tracking into
3D space in Chapter 9 , Camera Models and Augmented Reality , and
Chapter 10 , 3D Reconstruction and Navigation . Then, we will tackle
artificial neural networks ( ANNs ) and dive deeper into artificial
intelligence in Chapter 11 , Introduction to Neural Networks with OpenCV .

--- Strana 239 ---
Join our book community on
Discord
https://discord.gg/djGjeMECxw
If you like geometry, photography, or 3D graphics, then this chapter's topics
should especially appeal to you. We will learn about the relationship
between 3D space and a 2D projection. We will model this relationship in
terms of the basic optical parameters of a camera and lens. Finally, we will
apply the same relationship to the task of drawing 3D shapes in an accurate
perspective projection. Throughout all of this, we will integrate our
previous knowledge of image matching and object tracking in order to track
3D motion of a real-world object whose 2D projection is captured by a
camera in real time.
On a practical level, we will build an augmented reality application that
uses information about a camera, an object, and motion in order to
superimpose 3D graphics on top of a tracked object in real time. To achieve
this, we will conquer the following technical challenges:
Modeling the parameters of a camera and lens
Modeling a 3D object using 2D and 3D keypoints
Detecting the object by matching keypoints
Finding the object's 3D pose using the cv2.solvePnPRansac function

--- Strana 240 ---
Smoothing the 3D pose using a Kalman filter, while avoiding numeric
problems (singularities) that are associated with some ways of
representing rotations
Drawing graphics atop the object
Over the course of this chapter, you will acquire skills that will serve you
well if you go on to build your own augmented reality engine or any other
system that relies on 3D tracking, such as a robotic navigation system.

--- Strana 241 ---
Technical requirements
This chapter uses Python, OpenCV, and NumPy. Please refer back to
Chapter 1 , Setting Up OpenCV , for installation instructions.
The completed code and sample videos for this chapter can be found in this
book's GitHub repository, https://github.com/PacktPublishing/Learning-
OpenCV-5-Computer-Vision-with-Python-Fourth-Edition , in the
chapter09 folder.
This chapter's code contains excerpts from an open source demo
project called Visualizing the Invisible , by Joseph Howse (one of this
book's authors). To learn more about this project, please visit its
repository at https://github.com/JoeHowse/VisualizingTheInvisible/ .

--- Strana 242 ---
Understanding 3D image tracking and
augmented reality
We have already solved problems involving image matching in Chapter 6 ,
Retrieving Images and Searching Using Image Descriptors . Moreover, we have
solved problems involving continuous tracking in Chapter 8 , Tracking Objects .
Therefore, we are familiar with many of the components of an image tracking
system, though we have not yet tackled any 3D tracking problems.
So, what exactly is 3D tracking ? Well, it is the process of continually updating
an estimate of an object's pose (its position and orientation) in a 3D space.
Typically, the pose is expressed in terms of six variables: three variables to
represent the object's 3D translation (that is, position) and the other three
variables to represent its 3D rotation (that is, orientation).
A more technical term for 3D tracking is 6DOF tracking – that is, tracking
with 6 degrees of freedom , meaning the 6 variables we just mentioned.
With any fewer than 6 variables, it would be impossible to adequately
express the pose of a freely moving, freely turning object such an airplane.
Indeed, the practical problems of aeronautics and spaceflight have driven the
adoption of 6DOF and higher-dimensional pose representations since the
early 20th century.
There are several different ways of representing the 3D rotation as three variables.
Elsewhere, you might have encountered various kinds of Euler angle
representations, which describe the 3D rotation in terms of three separate 2D
rotations around the x , y , and z axes in a particular order. OpenCV does not use
Euler angles to represent 3D rotation; instead, it uses a representation called the
Rodrigues rotation vector . Specifically, OpenCV uses the following six
variables to represent the 6DOF pose:
1. t x : This is the object's translation along the X axis.
2. t y : This is the object's translation along the Y axis.
3. t z : This is the object's translation along the Z axis.
4. r x : This is the first element of the object's Rodrigues rotation vector.
5. r y : This is the second element of the object's Rodrigues rotation vector.

--- Strana 243 ---
6. r z : This is the third element of the object's Rodrigues rotation vector.
Unfortunately, in the Rodrigues representation, there is no easy way to interpret
rx , ry , and rz separately from each other. Taken together, as the vector r , they
encode both an axis of rotation and an angle of rotation about this axis.
Specifically, the following formulas define the relationship among the r vector; an
angle, θ ; a normalized axis vector, r̂ ; and a 3 x 3 rotation matrix, R :
For basic usage of OpenCV, we are not obliged to compute or interpret any of
these variables directly. OpenCV provides functions that give us a Rodrigues
rotation vector as a return value, and we can pass this rotation vector to other
OpenCV functions as an argument – without ever needing to manipulate its
contents for ourselves.
Unfortunately, if we want to perform custom filtering of the rotation, the
Rodrigues vector is generally not an appropriate format because the vector’s
individual elements lack a meaningful scale. As shown in the formulas above, we
need to look at all three elements together in order to understand the rotation’s
magnitude (the angle) and direction (the axis). On the other hand, if we look at a
change in rx (or any element) alone, we cannot say whether this change might
have resulted from a change in the rotation’s magnitude or in its direction. Thus, a
Kalman filter cannot make reliable predictions about such elements individually.
Instead, we will convert the rotation to the more common Euler angle format,
perform Kalman filtering on it, and then convert it back to the Rodrigues
representation. We will cover the details of these conversions later, in the section
Converting between Rodrigues angles and Euler angles . For now, let’s just note
that the Euler rotation vector represents a 3D rotation by the following three
elements:
1. pitch or attitude : This is the object’s rotation around its local X axis.
2. yaw or heading : This is the object’s rotation around its local Y axis.
3. roll or bank : This is the object’s rotation around its local Z axis

--- Strana 244 ---
Figure 9.1: Pitch, yaw, and roll axes of an airplane, according to the
DIN 9300 aerospace standard. (Image credit: Wikimedia users Auawise
and Jrvz. Licensed under CC-BY-SA-3.0.)
We will follow the yaw-pitch-roll (YPR) Tait-Bryan convention , whereby yaw
is applied first, then pitch, and finally roll. The order matters because each
element of the Euler rotation is relative to an object-local axis, which has already
been transformed by any previously applied element of the Euler rotation. For
example, in the YPR convention, the result of the yaw rotation determines the
local axis of the pitch rotation, and the cumulative result of the yaw and pitch
rotations determines the local axis of the roll rotation.
The YPR convention refers to the order in which the rotations are applied,
not the order in which they are listed in the vector. Despite the YPR
convention, the order in the Euler vector is [ pitch , yaw , roll ].
Euler angles in general, and the YPR Tait-Bryan convention in particular,
originate in the field of aeronautics. Imagine that we are describing the 3D
rotation of an airplane flying within the atmosphere of the planet Earth. Here are

--- Strana 245 ---
a few sample values that may help us understand the Euler vector format, [ pitch ,
yaw , roll ]:
[0, 0, 0]: The airplane is level and its nose (its object-local +Z axis) is
pointing due North.
[0, 90°, 0]: The airplane is level and its nose is pointing due East.
[0, 90°, 90°]: The airplane’s nose is pointing due East. Also, the airplane is
banked 90° to its right; in other words, the right wing (its object-local +X
axis) is pointing toward the Earth’s surface.
[45°, 90°, 0]: The airplane is heading East and climbing at a 45° angle.
[90°, 0, 0]: The airplane is climbing vertically and its right wing is pointing
due East.
[90°, 90°, 0]: The airplane is climbing vertically and its right wing is
pointing due South.
[90°, 0, 270°]: Again, the airplane is climbing vertically and its right wing is
pointing due South.
[90°, 180°, 90°]: Yet again, the airplane is climbing vertically and its right
wing is pointing due South!
As the last three examples show, there are cases where the same real-world
rotation has multiple – indeed, infinite – possible representations in Euler angle
format. These cases are called singularities and they occur where the second step
of the rotation – pitch in the case of the YPR convention – is an angle of 90° or
270°. Here, with YPR, a pitch of 90° or 270° transforms the airplane’s local Z
axis to be a vertical axis, so the roll will be a rotation around a vertical axis – but
wait! The yaw’s axis of rotation was vertical too! We are now at a singularity,
where the distinction between two of our parameters has collapsed; a change in
yaw would produce the same effect as a change in roll. Engineers use the term
gimbal lock to describe a variety of practical problems that can arise from poor
handling of such singularities.
When we apply the Kalman filter to Euler angles, we will take care to steer the
results away from divergent representations near singularities because such
numeric instabilities would spoil our efforts to apply a smoothing filter!
Some of the limitations of the Rodrigues vector and the Euler vector can be
resolved by more complex, alternative formats that have at least four
dimensions instead of three. The most famous of these is the quaternion ,
which uses imaginary numbers to represent a 3D rotation as a point on a
four-dimensional hypersphere. For a discussion of how a Kalman filter can

--- Strana 246 ---
apply to quaternions and to other alternative formats, see the article Kalman
Filtering for Attitude Estimation with Quaternions and Concepts from
Manifold Theory , by Pablo Bernal-Polo and Humberto Martínez-Barberá; it
is available at https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6339217/.
Now, let’s say a few words about the relative nature of coordinates. For our
purposes (and, indeed, for many problems in computer vision), the camera is the
origin of the 3D coordinate system. Therefore, in any given frame, the camera's
current t x , t y , t z , r x , r y , and r z values (using the Rodrigues vector
representation of rotation) are defined to be [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1]. This means zero
translation, and zero rotation around the +Z axis (though any axis of rotation
would produce the same result in this case, since the angle of rotation is zero). We
will endeavor to track other objects relative to the camera's current pose.
Of course, for our edification, we will want to visualize the 3D tracking results.
This brings us into the territory of augmented reality ( AR ). Broadly speaking,
AR is the process of continually tracking relationships between real-world objects
and applying these relationships to virtual objects, in such a way that a user
perceives the virtual objects as being anchored to something in the real world.
Typically, visual AR is based on relationships in terms of 3D space and
perspective projection. Indeed, our case is typical; we want to visualize a 3D
tracking result by drawing a projection of some 3D graphics atop the object we
tracked in the frame.
We will return to the concept of perspective projection in a few moments.
Meanwhile, let's take an overview of a typical set of steps involved in 3D image
tracking and visual AR:
1. Define the parameters of the camera and lens. We will introduce this topic in
this chapter.
2. Initialize a Kalman filter that we will use to stabilize the 6DOF tracking
results. For more information about Kalman filtering, refer back to Chapter
8 , Tracking Objects .
3. Choose a reference image, representing the surface of the object we want to
track. For our demo, the object will be a plane, such as a piece of paper on
which the image is printed.
4. Create a list of 3D points, representing the vertices of the object. The
coordinates can be in any unit, such as meters, millimeters, or something
arbitrary. For example, you could arbitrarily define 1 unit to be equal to the
object's height.

--- Strana 247 ---
5. Extract feature descriptors from the reference image. For 3D tracking
applications, ORB is a popular choice of descriptor since it can be computed
in real time, even on modest hardware such as a basic smartphone. Our
demo will use ORB. For more information about ORB, refer back to
Chapter 6 , Retrieving Images and Searching Using Image Descriptors .
6. Convert the feature descriptors from pixel coordinates to 3D coordinates,
using the same mapping that we used in step 4 .
7. Start capturing frames from the camera. For each frame, perform the
following steps:
1. Extract feature descriptors, and attempt to find good matches between
the reference image and the frame. Our demo will use FLANN-based
matching with a ratio test. For more information about these approaches
for matching descriptors, refer back to Chapter 6 , Retrieving Images
and Searching Using Image Descriptors .
2. If an insufficient number of good matches were found, continue to the
next frame. Otherwise, proceed with the remaining steps..
3. Attempt to find a good estimate of the tracked object's 6DOF pose
based on the camera and lens parameters, the matches, and the 3D
model of the reference object. For this, we will use the
cv2.solvePnPRansac function.
4. Apply the Kalman filter to stabilize the 6DOF pose so that it does not
jitter too much from frame to frame.
5. Based on the camera and lens parameters, and the 6DOF tracking
results, draw a projection of some 3D graphics atop the tracked object
in the frame.
Before proceeding to our demo's code, let's discuss two aspects of this outline a
bit further: first, the parameters of the camera and lens; and second, the role of the
mysterious function, cv2.solvePnPRansac .
Understanding camera and lens parameters
Typically, when we capture an image, at least three objects are involved:
The subject is something we want to capture in the image. Typically, it is an
object that reflects light, and we want this object to appear in focus (sharp)
in the image.
The lens transmits light and focuses any reflected light from the focal plane
onto the image plane . The focal plane is a circular slice of space that
includes the subject (as defined previously). The image plane is a circular

--- Strana 248 ---
slice of space that includes the image sensor (as defined later). Typically,
these planes are perpendicular to the lens's main (lengthwise) axis. The lens
has an optical center , which is the point where incoming light from the
focal plane converges before being projected back toward the image plane.
The focal distance (that is, the distance between the optical center and the
focal plane) varies depending on the distance between the optical center and
the image plane. If we move the optical center closer to the image plane, the
focal distance increases; conversely, if we move the optical center farther
from the image plane, the focal distance decreases. Typically, in a camera
system, the focus is adjusted by a mechanism that simply moves the lens
back and forth. The focal length is defined as the distance between the
optical center and the image plane when the focal distance is infinity.
The image sensor is a photosensitive surface that receives light and records
it as an image, in either an analog medium (such as film) or a digital
medium. Typically, the image sensor is rectangular. Therefore, it does not
cover all the extremities of the circular image plane. The image's diagonal
field of view ( FOV : the angular extent of the 3D space being imaged)
bears a trigonometric relationship to the focal length, the image sensor's
width, and the image sensor's height. We shall explore this relationship soon.
Here is a diagram to illustrate the preceding definitions:

--- Strana 249 ---
Figure 9.2: Geometric definitions of the basic parameters of a camera
and lens
For computer vision, we typically use a lens with a fixed focal length that is
optimal for a given application. However, a lens can have a variable focal
length; such a lens is called a zoom lens . Zooming in means increasing the
focal length, while zooming out means decreasing the focal length.
Mechanically, a zoom lens achieves this by moving the optical elements
inside the lens.
Let's use the variable f to represent the focal length, and the variables ( c x , c y ) to
represent the image sensor's center point within the image plane. OpenCV uses
the following matrix, which it calls a camera matrix , to represent the basic
parameters of a camera and lens:
F 0 c x
0 f c y
0 0 1

--- Strana 250 ---
Assuming that the image sensor is centered in the image plane (as it normally
should be), we can calculate cx and cy based on the image sensor's width, w , and
height, h , as follows:
If we know the diagonal FOV, θ , we can calculate the focal length using the
following trigonometric formula:
Alternatively, if we do not know the diagonal FOV, but we know the horizontal
FOV, ɸ , and the vertical FOV, ψ , we can calculate the focal length as follows:
You might be wondering how we obtain values for any of these variables as
starting points. Sometimes, the manufacturer of a camera or lens provides data on
the sensor size, focal length, or FOV in the product's specification sheet. For
example, the specification sheet might list the sensor size and focal length in
millimeters and the FOV in degrees. However, if the specification sheet is not so
informative, we have other ways of obtaining the necessary data. Importantly, the
sensor size and focal length do not need to be expressed in real-world units such
as millimeters. We can express them in arbitrary units, such as pixel-equivalent
units .
You may well ask, what is a pixel-equivalent unit? Well, when we capture a frame
from a camera, each pixel in the image corresponds to some region of the image
sensor, and this region has a real-world width (and a real-world height, which is
normally the same as the width, as pixels normally represent square regions).

--- Strana 251 ---
Therefore, if we are capturing frames with a resolution of 1280 x 720, we can say
that the image sensor's width, w , is 1280 pixel-equivalent units and its height, h ,
is 720 pixel-equivalent units. These units are not comparable across different real-
world sensor sizes or different resolutions; however, for a given camera and
resolution, they allow us to make internally consistent measurements without
needing to know the real-world scale of these measurements.
This trick gets us as far as being able to define w and h for any image sensor
(since we can always check the pixel dimensions of a captured frame). Now, to be
able to calculate the focal length, we just need one more type of data: the FOV.
We can measure this using a simple experiment. Take a piece of paper and tape it
to a wall (or another vertical surface). Position the camera and lens so that they
are directly facing the piece of paper and the edges of the paper lie along the
edges of the frame. (If the paper's aspect ratio does not match the frame's aspect
ratio, cut the paper to match.) Measure the diagonal size, s , from one corner of
the paper to the diagonally opposite corner. Additionally, measure the distance, d ,
from the paper to a point halfway down the barrel of the lens. Then, calculate the
diagonal FOV, θ , by trigonometry:
Let's suppose that by this experiment, we determine that a given camera and lens
have a diagonal FOV of 70 degrees. If we know that we are capturing frames at a
resolution of 1280 x 720, then we can calculate the focal length in pixel-
equivalent units as follows:
In addition to this, we can calculate the image sensor's center coordinates:

--- Strana 252 ---
Therefore, we have the following camera matrix:
68870.9 0
640
0
68870.9 360
0
0
1
The preceding parameters are necessary for 3D tracking, and they correctly
represent an ideal camera and lens. However, real equipment may deviate
noticeably from this ideal, and the camera matrix alone cannot represent all the
possible types of deviations. Distortion coefficients are a set of additional
parameters that can represent the following kinds of deviations from the ideal
model:
Radial distortion : This means that the lens does not magnify all parts of the
image equally; thus, it makes straight edges appear curvy or wavy. For radial
distortion coefficients, variable names such as k n (for example, k 1 , k 2 , k 3 ,
and so forth) are typically used. If k 1 <0 , this usually implies that the lens
suffers from barrel distortion , meaning that straight edges appear to bend
outward toward the borders of the image. Conversely, k 1 >0 usually implies
that the lens suffers from pincushion distortion , meaning that straight
edges appear to bend inward toward the center of the image. If the sign
(positive or negative) alternates across the series (for example, k 1 >0 , k 2 <0
, and k 3 >0 ), this might imply that the lens suffers from mustache
distortion , meaning that straight edges appear wavy.
Tangential distortion : This means that the lens's main (lengthwise) axis is
not perpendicular to the image sensor; thus, the perspective is skewed, and
the angles between the straight edges appear to be different than in a normal
perspective projection. In other words, the lens or the sensor is sitting askew
in the camera. This is normally considered a defect; however, specialized
equipment may be designed so that a photographer can twist it out of shape
to produce tangential distortions or, in other words, a false perspective. (Two
such types of equipment are bellows cameras and tilt-shift lenses .) For
tangential distortion coefficients, variable names such as p n (for example, p
1 , p 2 , and so forth) are typically used. The sign of the coefficient depends
on the direction of the lens's tilt relative to the image sensor.
The following diagram illustrates some types of radial distortion:

--- Strana 253 ---
Figure 9.3: Types of radial distortion
OpenCV provides functions to work with as many as five distortion coefficients:
k 1 , k 2 , p 1 , p 2 , and k 3 . (OpenCV expects them in this order, as elements of an
array.) Rarely, you might be able to obtain official data about distortion
coefficients from the vendor of a camera or lens. Alternatively, you can estimate
the distortion coefficients, along with the camera matrix, using OpenCV's
chessboard calibration process. This involves capturing a series of images of a
printed chessboard pattern, viewed from various positions and angles. For further
details, you can refer to the OpenCV official tutorial at
https://docs.opencv.org/master/dc/dbb/tutorial_py_calibration.html.
For our demo's purposes, we will simply assume that all the distortion
coefficients are 0, meaning there is no distortion. Of course, we do not really
believe that our webcam lenses are distortion-less masterpieces of optical
engineering; we just believe that the distortion is not bad enough to noticeably
affect our demo of 3D tracking and AR. If we were trying to build a precise
measurement device instead of a visual demo, we would be more concerned
about the effects of distortion.
Compared to the chessboard calibration process, the formulas and
assumptions that we have outlined in this section produce a more
constrained or idealistic model. However, our approach has the advantages
of being simpler and more easily reproducible. The chessboard calibration
process is more laborious, and each user might execute it differently,
producing different (and, sometimes, erroneous) results.

--- Strana 254 ---
Having absorbed this background information on camera and lens parameters,
let's now examine an OpenCV function that uses these parameters as part of a
solution to the 6DOF tracking problem.
Understanding cv2.solvePnPRansac
Suppose that we know where certain keypoints are located on a 3D model of an
object, and we know where the same keypoints are located in a 2D photo of such
an object. The cv2.solvePnPRansac function implements a solver for the so-
called Perspective-n-Point (PnP) problem. Given a set of n unique matches
between 3D and 2D points, along with the parameters of the camera and lens that
generated this 2D projection of the 3D points, the solver attempts to estimate the
6DOF pose of the 3D object relative to the camera. This problem is somewhat
similar to finding the homography for a set of 2D-to-2D keypoint matches, as we
did in Chapter 6 , Retrieving Images and Searching Using Image Descriptors .
However, in the PnP problem, we have enough additional information to estimate
a more specific spatial relationship – the DOF pose – as opposed to the
homography, which just tells us a projective relationship.
So, how does cv2.solvePnPRansac work? As the function's name suggests, it
implements a Ransac algorithm, which is a general-purpose iterative approach
designed to deal with a set of inputs that may contain outliers – in our case, bad
matches. Each Ransac iteration finds a potential solution that minimizes a
measurement of mean error for the inputs. Then, before the next iteration, any
inputs with an unacceptably large error are marked as outliers and discarded. This
process continues until the solution converges, meaning that no new outliers are
found and the mean error is acceptably low.
For the PnP problem, the error is measured in terms of reprojection error ,
meaning the distance between the observed position of a 2D point and the
predicted position according to the camera and lens parameters, and the 6DOF
pose that we are currently considering as the potential solution. At the end of the
process, we hope to obtain a 6DOF pose that is consistent with most of the 3D-to-
2D keypoint matches. Additionally, we want to know which of the matches are
inliers for this solution.
Let's consider the function signature of cv2.solvePnPRansac :
As we can see, the function has four return values:

--- Strana 255 ---
retval : This is True if the solver converged on a solution; otherwise, it is
False .
rvec : This array contains r x , r y , and r z – the three rotational degrees of
freedom in the 6DOF pose.
tvec : This array contains t x , t y , and t z – the three translational
(positional) degrees of freedom in the 6DOF pose.
inliers : If the solver converged on a solution, this vector contains the
indices of the input points (in objectPoints and imagePoints ) that are
congruous with the solution.
The function also has 12 arguments:
objectPoints : This is an array of 3D points that represent the object's
keypoints when there is no translation and no rotation – in other words,
when the 6DOF pose variables are all 0.
imagePoints : This is an array of 2D points that represent the object's
keypoint matches in the image. Specifically, imagePoints[i] is believed to
be a match for objectPoints[i] .
cameraMatrix : This 2D array is the camera matrix, which we can derive in
the manner described in the previous section, Understanding camera and
lens parameters .
distCoeffs : This is the array of distortion coefficients. If we do not know
them, we can assume (for simplicity) that they are all 0, as mentioned in the
previous section.
rvec : If the solver converges on a solution, it will put the solution's r x , r y ,
and r z values in this array (or, if this argument is None , the solver will
return a new array instead).
tvec : If the solver converges on a solution, it will put the solution's t x , t y ,
and t z values in this array (or, if this argument is None , the solver will
return a new array instead).
useExtrinsicGuess : If this is True , the solver treats the values in the rvec
and tvec arguments as an initial guess, and then it tries to find a solution
that is close to these. Otherwise, the solver takes an unbiased approach in its
search for a solution.
iterationsCount : This is the maximum number of iterations that the
solver should attempt. If it does not converge on a solution after this number
of iterations, it gives up.
reprojectionError : This is the maximum reprojection error that the solver
will accept; if a point has a greater reprojection error than this, the solver

--- Strana 256 ---
treats it as an outlier.
confidence : The solver attempts to converge on a solution that has a
confidence score greater than or equal to this value.
inliers : If the solver converges on a solution, it will put the indices of the
solution's inlier points in this array (or, if this argument is None , the solver
will return a new array instead).
flags : The flags specify the solver's algorithm. The default,
cv2.SOLVEPNP_ITERATIVE , is an approach that minimizes reprojection error
and has no special restrictions, so it is generally the best choice. Specifically,
cv2.SOLVEPNP_ITERATIVE implements an iterative algorithm called
Levenberg–Marquardt (LM) or damped least squares (DLS) . A useful
alternative is cv2.SOLVEPNP_IPPE – IPPE , short for Infinitesimal Plane-
Based Pose Estimation – but it is restricted to planar objects such as a book
cover. Compared to LM, IPPE is a bit faster but a bit less accurate. For a
comparison of the two algorithms’ results, see the paper Insights into the
robustness of control point configurations for homography and planar pose
estimation , by Raul Acuna and Volker Willert. An electronic version is
available at https://arxiv.org/pdf/1803.03025.pdf.
Although this function involves a lot of variables, we will see that its usage is a
natural extension of the keypoint matching problems we have covered in Chapter
6 , Retrieving Images and Searching Using Image Descriptors , and the 3D and
projective problems we are introducing in this chapter. With this in mind, let's
begin to explore this chapter's sample code.

--- Strana 257 ---
Implementing the demo application
We are going to implement our demo in a single script, ImageTrackingDemo.py ,
which will contain the following components:
1. Import statements
2. A helper function for a custom grayscale conversion
3. Helper functions to convert keypoints from 2D to 3D space
4. An application class, ImageTrackingDemo , which will encapsulate a model
of the camera and lens, a model of the reference image, a Kalman filter,
6DOF tracking results (including the translation and both the Rodrigues and
Euler representations of the rotation), and an application loop that will track
the image and draw a simple AR visualization
5. A main function to launch the application
The script will depend on one other file, reference_image.png , which will
represent the image that we want to track.
By preparing a reference image in advance, and by loading it from file at
runtime, we can ensure that its technical qualities are good: it has a high
resolution (important for close-up tracking), it is properly focused, it is free
of distortions, it is evenly lit and well exposed, the subject is upright and flat
and not covered by anyone’s thumb…
On the other hand, in some applications, the user might need to gather
reference images in real time instead. Then, for example, you could
implement a user interface to let the user show any reference image to
the camera. For such applications, you may want to read about
OpenCV’s selectROI function, which lets the user click and drag the
mouse to select a rectangular region of an image (such as the current
camera frame). The selected region could be treated as a new reference
image.
Without further ado, let's dive into the script's implementation.
Importing modules

--- Strana 258 ---
From the Python standard library, we will use the math module for trigonometric
calculations, and the timeit module for accurate time measurement (which will
enable us to use a Kalman filter more effectively). As usual, we will also use
NumPy and OpenCV. Thus, our implementation of ImageTrackingDemo.py
begins with the following import statements:
Now, let's proceed to the implementation of the helper functions.
Performing grayscale conversion
Throughout this book, we have performed grayscale conversions using code such
as the following:
Perhaps a question is long overdue: how exactly does this function map BGR
values to grayscale values? The answer is that each output pixel's grayscale value
is a weighted average of the corresponding input pixel's B, G, and R values, as
follows:
These weights are widely used. They come from a telecommunications industry
standard called CCIR 601, which was issued in 1982. They are loosely consistent
with a characteristic of human vision; when we see a brightly lit scene, our eyes
are most sensitive to yellowish-green light. Moreover, these weights should
produce high contrast in scenes with yellowish light and blueish shadows, such as
an outdoor scene on a sunny day. Are these good reasons for us to use the CCIR
601 weights? No, they are not; there is no scientific evidence that the CCIR 601
conversion weights yield optimal grayscale input for any particular purpose in
computer vision.
Indeed, for the purpose of image tracking, there is evidence in favor of other
grayscale conversion algorithms. Samuel Macêdo, Givânio Melo, and Judith
Kelner address this topic in their paper, A comparative study of grayscale
conversion techniques applied to SIFT descriptors (SBC Journal on Interactive
Systems, vol. 6, no. 2, 2015). They test a variety of conversion algorithms,
including the following types:
A weighted-average conversion, gray = (0.07 * blue) + (0.71 *
green) + (0.21 * red) , which is somewhat similar to CCIR 601
An unweighted-average conversion, gray = (blue + green + red) / 3
Conversions based on only a single color channel, such as gray = green

--- Strana 259 ---
Gamma-corrected conversions, such as gray = 255 * (green / 255) ^
(1/2.2) , in which the grayscale value varies exponentially (not linearly)
with the inputs
According to the paper, the weighted-average conversion produces results that are
relatively unstable – good for finding matches and homography with some
images, but bad with others. The unweighted-average conversion and the single-
channel conversions yield more consistent results. For some images, the gamma-
corrected conversions yield the best results, but these conversions are
computationally more expensive.
For our demo's purposes, we will perform grayscale conversion by taking the
simple (unweighted) average of each pixel's B, G, and R values. This approach is
computationally cheap (which is desirable in real-time tracking), and we expect
that it leads to more consistent tracking results than the default weighted-average
conversion in OpenCV. Here is our implementation of a helper function to
perform the custom conversion:
Note the use of the cv2.transform function. This is a well-optimized, general-
purpose matrix transformation function, provided by OpenCV. We can use it to
perform operations where the values of a pixel's output channels are a linear
combination of the values of the input channels. In the case of our BGR-to-
grayscale conversion, we have one output channel and three input channels, so
our transformation matrix, m, has one row and three columns.
Having written our helper function for grayscale conversions, let's go on to
consider helper functions for conversions from 2D to 3D space.
Performing 2D-to-3D spatial conversions
Remember that we have a reference image, reference_image.png , and we want
our AR application to track a print copy of this image. For the purpose of 3D
tracking, we can represent this printed image as a plane in 3D space. Let's define
the local coordinate system by saying that, normally (when the elements of the
6DOF pose are all 0), this planar object stands upright like a picture hanging on a
wall; its front is the side with the image on it;; and its origin is the center of the
image.
Now, let's suppose that we want to map a given pixel from the reference image
onto this 3D plane. Given the 2D pixel coordinates, the image's pixel dimensions,

--- Strana 260 ---
and a scaling factor to convert from pixels to some unit of measurement we want
to use in 3D space, we can use the following helper function to map a pixel onto
the plane:
The scaling factor depends on the real-world size of the printed image and our
choice of unit. For example, we might know that our printed image is 20 cm tall –
or we might not care about the absolute scale, in which case we could define an
arbitrary unit such that the printed image is one unit tall. Anyway, given a list of
2D pixel coordinates, the reference image's size in pixels, and the reference
image's real-world height in any unit (absolute or relative), we can use the
following helper function to obtain a list of the corresponding 3D coordinates on
the plane:
Note that we have a helper function for multiple points, map_points_to_plane ,
and it calls a helper function for every single point, map_point_to_plane .
Later, in the Initializing the tracker section, we will generate ORB keypoint
descriptors for the reference image, and we will use our map_points_to_plane
helper function in order to convert the keypoint coordinates from 2D to 3D. We
will also convert the image's four 2D vertices (that is, its top-left, top-right,
bottom-right, and bottom-left corners) to obtain the four 3D vertices of the plane.
We will use these vertices when we perform our AR drawing – specifically, in the
Drawing the tracking results section. Drawing-related functions (in OpenCV and
many other frameworks) expect the vertices to be specified in clockwise order
(from a frontal perspective) for each face of the 3D shape. To deal with this
requirement, let's implement another helper function that is specific to mapping
vertices; here it is:
Note that our vertex-mapping helper function, map_vertices_to_plane , calls
our map_points_to_plane helper function, which, in turn, calls
map_point_to_plane . Therefore, all our mapping functionality shares a
common core.
Of course, 2D-to-3D keypoint mapping and vertex mapping can be applied to
other kinds of 3D shapes besides planes. To learn how our approach can extend to
3D cuboids and 3D cylinders, please refer to the Visualizing the Invisible demo
project, by Joseph Howse, which is available at
https://github.com/JoeHowse/VisualizingTheInvisible/.
We have finished implementing the helper functions. Now, let's proceed to the
object-oriented part of the code.

--- Strana 261 ---
Implementing the application class
We will implement our application in a class named ImageTrackingDemo , which
will have the following methods:
__init__(self, capture, diagonal_fov_degrees, target_fps,
reference_image_path, reference_image_real_height) : The initializer
will set up a capture device, a camera matrix, a Kalman filter, and 2D and
3D keypoints for the reference image.
run(self) : This method will run the application's main loop, which
captures, processes, and displays frames until the user quits by hitting the
Esc key. The processing of each frame is performed with the help of other
methods, which are mentioned next in this list.
_track_object(self) : This method will perform 6DOF tracking and draw
an AR visualization of the tracking result.
_init_kalman_transition_matrix(self, fps) : This method will
configure the Kalman filter to ensure that acceleration and velocity are
simulated properly for the specified frame rate.
_apply_kalman(self) : This method will stabilize the 6DOF tracking result
by applying the Kalman filter.
Let's walk through the methods' implementations one by one, starting with
__init__ .
Initializing the tracker
The __init__ method involves a lot of steps to initialize the camera matrix, the
ORB descriptor extractor, the Kalman filter, the reference image's 2D and 3D
keypoints, and other variables related to our tracking algorithm:
1. To begin, let's look at the several arguments that __init__ accepts. These
include: a cv2.VideoCapture object, called capture (the camera); the
camera's diagonal FOV, in degrees; the expected frame rate in frames per
second ( FPS ); a path to a file containing the reference image; and a
measurement of the reference image's real-world height (in any unit):
1. We attempt to capture a frame from the camera in order to determine its
pixel dimensions; failing that, we get the dimensions from the camera's
properties:

--- Strana 262 ---
1. Now, given the frame's dimensions in pixels, and the FOV of the camera and
lens, we can use trigonometry to calculate the focal length in pixel-
equivalent units. (The formula is the one we derived earlier in this chapter, in
the Understanding camera and lens parameters section.) Moreover, using
the focal length and the frame's center point, we can construct the camera
matrix. Here is the relevant code:
1. For the sake of simplicity, we assume that the lens does not suffer from any
distortion whatsoever:
1. Initially, we are not tracking the object, so we have no estimate of its rotation
and position; we just define the relevant variables as if the rotation and
position are zero:
1. Now, let's set up a Kalman filter:
As indicated by the preceding code, cv2.KalmanFilter(18, 6) , this Kalman
filter will track 18 output variables (or predictions), based on 6 input variables (or
measurements). Specifically, the input variables are the elements of the 6DOF
tracking result: t x , t y , t z , r x , r y , and r z . The output variables are the elements
of the stabilized 6DOF tracking result, plus their first-order derivatives (velocity)
and their second-order derivatives (acceleration), in the following order: t x , t y , t
z , t x ' , t y ' , t z ' , t x '' , t y '' , t z '' , r x , r y , r z , r x ' , r y ' , r z ' , r x '' , r y '' , and r z ''
. The Kalman filter's measurement matrix has 18 columns (representing the
output variables) and 6 rows (representing the input variables). Within each row,
we put 1.0 in the index that corresponds to the matching output variable;
elsewhere, we put 0.0. We also initialize a transition matrix, which defines the
relationships among the output variables over time. This part of the initialization
is handled by a helper method, _
init_kalman_transition_matrix(target_fps) , which we will examine later,
in the Initializing and applying the Kalman filter section.
Not all of the Kalman filter's matrices are initialized by our __init__
method. The transition matrix is updated every frame during tracking
because the actual frame rate (and, thus, the time step) may change. The
state matrices are initialized every time we start tracking an object. We will
cover these aspects of the Kalman filter's usage in due course, in the
Initializing and applying the Kalman filter section.

--- Strana 263 ---
1. We need a Boolean variable (initially, False ) to indicate whether we
successfully tracked the object in the previous frame:
1. We need to define the vertices of some 3D graphics that we will draw every
frame as part of our AR visualization. Specifically, the graphics will be a set
of arrows representing the object's X , Y , and Z axes. The scale of these
graphics will relate to the scale of the real object – that is, the printed image
that we intend to track. Remember that, as one of its arguments, the
__init__ method takes the image's scale – specifically, its height – and that
this measurement may be in any unit. Let's define the length of the 3D axis
arrows to be half the height of the printed image:
1. Using the length that we have just defined, let's define the vertices of the
axis arrows relative to the printed image's center, [0.0, 0.0, 0.0] :
Note that OpenCV's coordinate system has nonstandard axis directions, as
follows:
+ X (the positive X direction) is the object's left-hand direction, or the
viewer's right-hand direction in a frontal view of the object.
+ Y is down.
+ Z is the object's backward direction, or the viewer's frontward direction in
a frontal view of the object.
We must negate all of the preceding directions in order to obtain the following
standard right-handed coordinate system, like the one used in many 3D graphics
frameworks such as OpenGL:
+ X is the object's right-hand direction, or the viewer's left-hand direction in
a frontal view of the object.
+ Y is up.
+ Z is the object's forward direction, or the viewer's backward direction in a
frontal view of the object.
For the purposes of this book, we use OpenCV to draw 3D graphics, so we
could simply adhere to OpenCV's nonstandard axis directions, even when
we draw visualizations. However, if you do further AR work in the future,
you will likely need to integrate your computer vision code with OpenGL
and other 3D graphics frameworks using a right-handed coordinate system.
To better prepare you for this eventuality, we will convert the axis directions
in our OpenCV-centric demo.

--- Strana 264 ---
1. We will use three arrays to hold three kinds of images: the BGR video frame
(where we will do our AR drawing), the grayscale version of the frame
(which we will use for keypoint matching), and the mask (where we will
draw a silhouette of the tracked object). Initially, these arrays are all None :
1. We will use a cv2.ORB object to detect keypoints and compute descriptors
for the reference image and, later, for camera frames. We initialize the
cv2.ORB object as follows:
For a refresher on the ORB algorithm and its usage in OpenCV, refer back to
Chapter 6 , Retrieving Images and Searching Using Image Descriptors ,
specifically to the Using ORB with FAST features and BRIEF descriptors
section.
Here, we have specified several optional parameters for the constructor of
cv2.ORB . The diameter covered by a descriptor is 31 pixels, our image pyramid
has 16 levels with a scale factor of 1.2 between consecutive levels, and we want,
at most, 250 keypoints and descriptors per detection attempt. You may want to
experiment with these values. For example, if you increase nfeatures , you may
get more accurate results but the frame rate may drop because there are more
descriptors to match.
1. Now, we load the reference image from a file, resize it, convert it to
grayscale, and create an empty mask for it:
When resizing the reference image, we have chosen to make it twice as high as
the camera frame. The exact number is arbitrary; however, the idea is that we
want to perform keypoint detection and description with an image pyramid that
covers a useful range of magnifications. The base of the pyramid (that is, the
resized reference image) should be larger than the camera frame so that we can
match keypoints at an appropriate scale even when the target object is so close to
the camera that it cannot all fit into the frame. Conversely, the top level of the
pyramid should be smaller than the camera frame so that we can match keypoints
at an appropriate scale even when the target object is too far away to fill the
whole frame.
Let's consider an example. Suppose that our original reference image is 4000 x
3000 pixels and that our camera frame is 1280 x 720 pixels. We resize the
reference image to 1920 x 1440 pixels (twice the height of the frame, and the
same aspect ratio as the original reference image). Thus, the base of our image
pyramid is also 1920 x 1440 pixels. Since our cv2.ORB object is configured to

--- Strana 265 ---
use 16 pyramid levels and a scale factor of 1.2, the top of the image pyramid has
a width of 1920/(1.2 16-1 )=124 pixels and a height of 1440/(1.2 16-1 )=93 pixels;
in other words, it is 124 x 93 pixels. Therefore, we can potentially match
keypoints and track the object even if it is so far away that it fills just 10% of the
frame's width or height. Realistically, to perform useful keypoint matching at this
scale, we would need a good lens, the object would need to be in focus, and the
lighting would need to be good as well.
1. At this stage, we have an appropriately sized reference image in BGR color
and in grayscale, and we have an empty mask for this image. We are going
to partition the image into 36 equally-sized regions of interest (in a 6 x 6
grid), and for each region, we will attempt to generate as many as 250
keypoints and descriptors (since our cv2.ORB object is configured to use this
maximum number of keypoints and descriptors). This partitioning scheme
helps to ensure that we have some keypoints and descriptors in every region,
so we can potentially match keypoints and track the object even if most parts
of the object are not visible in a given frame. The following code block
shows how we iterate over the regions of interest and, for each region, create
a mask, perform keypoint detection and descriptor extraction, and append
the keypoints and descriptors to master lists:
1. Now, we draw a visualization of the keypoints atop the grayscale reference
image:
1. Next, we save the visualization to a file with _keypoints appended to the
name. For example, if the filename of the reference image was
reference_image.png , we save the visualization as
reference_image_keypoints.png . Here is the relevant code:
1. We proceed to initialize the FLANN-based matcher with custom parameters:
These parameters specify that we are using a multi-probe LSH (locality-sensitive
hashing) indexing algorithm with 6 hash tables, a hash key size of 12 bits, and 1
multi-probe level.
For a description of the multi-probe LSH algorithm, refer to the paper Multi-
Probe LSH: Efficient Indexing for High-Dimensional Similarity Search
(VLDB, 2007), by Qin Lv, William Josephson, Zhe Wang, Moses Charikar,
and Kai Li. An electronic version is available at
https://www.cs.princeton.edu/cass/papers/mplsh_vldb07.pdf.

--- Strana 266 ---
1. We train the matcher by feeding the reference descriptors to it:
1. We take the 2D coordinates of the keypoints, and we feed these to our
map_points_to_plane helper function in order to obtain equivalent 3D
coordinates on the surface of the object's plane:
1. Similarly, we call our map_vertices_to_plane function in order to obtain
the 3D vertices and 3D face of the plane:
This concludes the implementation of the __init__ method. Next, let's take a
look at the run method, which represents the application's main loop.
Implementing the main loop
As usual, our main loop's primary role is to capture and process frames, until the
user hits the Esc key. The processing of each frame – including 3D tracking and
AR drawing – is delegated to a helper method called _track_object , which we
will examine later, in the Tracking the image in 3D section. The main loop also
has a secondary role: that is, to perform timekeeping by measuring the frame rate
and updating the Kalman filter's transition matrix accordingly. This update is
delegated to another helper method, _init_kalman_transition_matrix , which
we will examine in the Initializing and applying the Kalman filter section. With
these roles in mind, we can implement the main loop in the run method as
follows:
Note the use of the timeit.default_timer function from Python's standard
library. This function provides a precise measurement of the current system time
in seconds (as a floating-point number, so fractions of seconds can be expressed).
As the name timeit suggests, this module contains useful functionality for
situations where you have time-sensitive code and you want to time it .
Let's move on to the implementation of _track_object , since this helper
performs the largest part of the application's work on behalf of run .
Tracking the image in 3D
The _track_object method is directly responsible for keypoint matching,
keypoint visualizations, and solving the PnP problem. Additionally, it calls other
methods to deal with Kalman filtering, AR drawing, and masking the tracked
object:

--- Strana 267 ---
1. To begin _track_object 's implementation, we call our convert_to_gray
helper function to convert the frame to grayscale:
1. Now, we use our cv2.ORB object to detect keypoints and compute
descriptors in a masked region of the grayscale image:
If we were already tracking the object in the previous frame, the mask covers the
region where we previously found the object. Otherwise, the mask covers the
whole frame because we have no idea where the object might be. We will see
how the mask is created later, in the Drawing the tracking results and masking
the tracked object section.
1. Next, we use our FLANN matcher to find matches between the reference
image's keypoints and the frame's keypoints, and we filter these matches
according to the ratio test:
For details about FLANN matching and the ratio test, refer back to Chapter
6 , Retrieving Images and Searching Using Image Descriptors .
1. At this stage, we have a list of good matches that passed the ratio test. Let's
select the subset of the frame's keypoints that correspond to these good
matches, and let's draw red circles on the frame to visualize these keypoints:
1. Having found the good matches, we obviously know how many of them
there are. If the count is small, then, overall, the set of matches can be
considered doubtful and inadequate for tracking. We define two different
thresholds for the minimum number of good matches: a higher threshold if
we are just starting tracking (that is, we were not tracking the object in the
previous frame), and a lower threshold if we are continuing tracking (after
already tracking the object in the previous frame):
1. If we fail to meet even the lower threshold, then we note that we did not
track the object in this frame, and we reset the mask so that it covers the
whole frame:
1. On the other hand, if we have enough matches to satisfy the applicable
threshold, we proceed to try to track the object. The first step in this is to
select the good matches' 2D coordinates in the frame and their 3D
coordinates in the model of the reference object:

--- Strana 268 ---
1. Now, we are ready to call cv2.solvePnPRansac using the kinds of
arguments we described near the start of this chapter, in the Understanding
cv2.solvePnPRansac section. Notably, we use the 3D reference keypoints
and the 2D scene keypoints from only the good matches:
Note that at this stage, we have put the new rotation and translation results in
local variables, rodrigues_rotation_vector_temp and
translation_vector_temp . We are not yet sure whether the new rotation
and translation results are good, so we do not yet want to overwrite the old
results in self._rogdrigues_rotation_vector and
self._translation_vector .
1. The solver may or may not have converged on a solution to the PnP
problem. If it did not converge, we do nothing further in this method. If it
did converge, we overwrite the old rotation and translation results. As part of
this step, we call a helper method, _convert_rodrigues_to_euler , to
convert the new rotation result to Euler angles:
1. The next thing we do is to check whether we were already tracking the
object in the previous frame. If we were not already tracking it – in other
words, if we are starting to track the object afresh in this frame – then we
reinitialize the Kalman filter by calling a helper method,
_init_kalman_state_matrices :
1. Now, in any case, we are tracking the object in this frame, so we can apply
the Kalman filter by calling another helper method, _apply_kalman :
1. At this stage, we have a Kalman-filtered 6DOF pose. We also have a list of
the inlier keypoints from cv2.solvePnPRansac . To help the user visualize
the result, let's draw the inlier keypoints in green:
Remember that earlier in this method, we drew all the keypoints in red. Now that
we have drawn over the inlier keypoints in green, only the outlier keypoints are
still red.
1. Finally, we call two more helper methods: the self._draw_object axes to
draw the tracked object's 3D axes, and self._make_and_draw_object_mask
to make and draw a mask of the region that contains the object:
There ends the implementation of our _track_object method. By now, we have
a mostly complete picture of our tracking algorithm's implementation, but we still

--- Strana 269 ---
need to implement helper methods relating to the Kalman filter (in the next
section, Initializing and applying the Kalman filter ), and masking and AR
drawing (in the section after that, Drawing the tracking results and masking the
tracked object ).
Initializing and applying the Kalman filter
We looked at some aspects of the Kalman filter's initialization earlier, in the
Initializing the tracker section. However, in that section, we noted that some of
Kalman filter's matrices need to be initialized or reinitialized multiple times, as
the application runs through various frames and various states of tracking or not
tracking. Specifically, the following matrices will change:
The transition matrix : This matrix expresses the temporal relationships
among all the output variables. For example, this matrix can model the
effects of acceleration on velocity, and of velocity on position. We will
reinitialize the transition matrix every frame because the frame rate (and,
therefore, the time step between frames) is variable. Effectively, this is a way
of scaling the previous predictions of acceleration and velocity to match the
new time step.
The pre-correction and post-correction state matrices : These matrices
contain the predictions of the output variables. The predictions in the pre-
correction matrix only take account of the previous state and the transition
matrix. The predictions in the post-correction matrix also take account of
new inputs and the Kalman filter's other matrices. We will reinitialize the
state matrices whenever we go from a non-tracking state to a tracking state –
in other words, when we failed to track the object in the previous frame but
now we succeed in tracking it in the current frame. Effectively, this is a way
of clearing outdated predictions, and starting afresh from new
measurements.
Let's take a look at the transition matrix first. Its initialization method will take
one argument, fps , that is, the frame rate in frames per second. We can
implement the method in three steps:
1. We begin by validating the fps argument. If it is not positive, we return
immediately without updating the transition matrix:
1. Having determined that fps is positive, we proceed to calculate transition
rates for velocity and acceleration. We want the velocity transition rate to be

--- Strana 270 ---
proportional to the time step (that is, the time per frame). Because fps
(frames per second) is the inverse of the time step (that is, seconds per
frame), the velocity transition rate is inversely proportional to fps . The
acceleration transition rate is proportional to the square of the velocity
transition rate (and thus, indirectly, the acceleration transition rate is
inversely proportional to the square of fps ). Choosing 1.0 as a base scale
for the velocity transition rate and 0.5 as a base scale for the acceleration
transition rate, we can calculate them in code as follows:
1. Next, we populate the transition matrix. Since we have 18 output variables,
the transition matrix has 18 rows and 18 columns. First, let's take a look at
the content of the matrix, and, afterward, we will consider how to interpret
it:
Each row expresses a formula for calculating a new output value based on the
previous frame's output values. Let's consider the first row as an example. We can
interpret it as follows:
The new t x ( x position) value depends on the old t x , t x ' ( x velocity), and t x '' (
x acceleration) values, along with the velocity transition rate, v , and the
acceleration transition rate, a . As we saw earlier in this function, these transition
rates may vary because the time step may vary.
That concludes the implementation of the helper method to initialize or update the
transition matrix. Remember that we call this function every frame because the
frame rate (and thus the time step) may have changed.
We also need a helper function to initialize the state matrices. Remember that we
call this method whenever we transition from a non-tracking state to a tracking
state. This transition is an appropriate time to clear out any previous predictions;
instead, we are starting afresh with the belief that the object's 6DOF pose is
exactly what the PnP solver says it is. Moreover, we assume that the object is
stationary, with zero velocity and zero acceleration. Here is the helper method's
implementation:
Note that the state matrices have one row and 18 columns since we have 18
output variables. Also, note that we are performing Kalman filtering on the Euler
representation of the rotation, not the Rodrigues representation.

--- Strana 271 ---
Now that we have covered the process of initializing and reinitializing the
Kalman filter's matrices, let's take a look at how we apply the filter. As we have
previously seen in Chapter 8 , Tracking Objects , we can ask the Kalman filter to
estimate the object's new pose (the pre-correction state of the output variables),
then we can tell it to take account of the latest unstabilized tracking result (the
input variables) in order to adjust its estimate (thereby producing the post-
correction state), and, finally, we can extract variables from the adjusted estimate
to use as our stabilized tracking result. Compared to our previous work, the only
difference this time is that we have more input and output variables. The
following code shows how we implement a method to apply the Kalman filter in
the context of our 6DOF tracker:
Here, note that estimate[0:3] corresponds to t x , t y , and t z , while
estimate[9:12] corresponds to r x , r y , and r z (or, in other words, pitch, yaw,
and roll). The rest of the estimate array corresponds to the first-order derivatives
(velocity) and second-order derivatives (acceleration).
Also, note that if we detect an abrupt change of direction in the Euler angle
vector, we assume that we passed through a singularity and we reset the rotational
motion stabilization by treating the latest rotational tracking result as correct.
(Otherwise, if we attempted to apply smoothing to Euler values near a singularity,
we would see the object spin wildly.)
Having seen the way we apply a Kalman filter to Euler angles, now let’s look at
implementations of helper methods to convert a Rodrigues rotation vector to an
Euler rotation vector and vice versa.
Converting between Rodrigues vectors and Euler vectors
EuclideanSpace, a mathematics and geometry website, provides an excellent pair
of articles on the relationship between the 3x3 rotation matrix and Euler angles,
specifically including the yaw-pitch-roll Tait-Bryan variant:
A conceptual overview is available at
https://www.euclideanspace.com/maths/geometry/rotations/euler/index.htm.
Conversion formulas, along with sample code in C++, are available at
http://euclideanspace.com/maths/geometry/rotations/conversions/matrixToE
uler/index.htm.

--- Strana 272 ---
You may want to open the two preceding links now so that you can compare
the explanation and formulas from EuclideanSpace to our OpenCV code,
below.
We will adapt the sample code from EuclideanSpace and also make use of an
OpenCV function, cv2.Rodrigues , which converts between the Rodrigues
vector and the 3x3 rotation matrix. Here is our Python implementation of a helper
method to convert the Rodrigues vector to an Euler vector:
Conversely, the following method implements the conversion from the Euler
vector back to the Rodrigues vector:
Note that cv2.Rodrigues is two-way function, which can convert from a
Rodrigues rotation vector to a rotation matrix, or vice versa. If we pass it a
rotation matrix, it returns a Rodrigues vector (and Jacobian matrix); if we
pass it a Rodrigues vector, it returns a rotation matrix (and Jacobian matrix).
By this point, we have almost fully explored the implementation of our 3D
tracking algorithm, including the use of the Kalman filter to stabilize the 6DOF
pose, as well as the velocity and acceleration. Along the way, we have dealt with
conversions between different representations of the rotation. Now, let's turn our
attention to two final implementation details of our ImageTrackingDemo class:
the AR drawing methods and the creation of a mask based on the tracking results.
Drawing the tracking results and masking the tracked object
We will implement one helper method, _draw_object_axes , to draw a
visualization of the tracked object's X , Y , and Z axes. We will also implement
another helper method, _make_and_draw_object_mask , to project the object's
vertices from 3D to 2D, create a mask based on the object's silhouette, and tint
this masked region yellow as a visualization.
Let's start with the implementation of _draw_object_axes . We can consider it in
three stages:
1. First, we want to take a set of 3D points located along the axes, and project
these points to the 2D image space. Remember that we defined the 3D axis
points in our __init__ method, in the Initializing the tracker section. They
will simply serve as endpoints of the axis arrows that we will draw. Using
the cv2.projectPoints function, our 6DOF tracking result, and our camera
matrix, we can find the 2D projected points as follows:

--- Strana 273 ---
Besides returning the projected 2D points, cv2.projectPoints also returns
the Jacobian matrix , which represents the partial derivatives (with respect
to the input parameters) of the function used to calculate the 2D points. This
information is potentially useful for camera calibration, but we do not use it
in our example.
1. The projected points are in floating-point format, but we will need integers
to pass to OpenCV's drawing functions. Thus, we perform the following
conversions to integer format:
1. Having calculated the endpoints, we can now draw three arrowed lines to
represent the X, Y, and Z axes:
We have finished implementing _draw_object_axes . Now, let's turn our
attention to _make_and_draw_object_mask , which we can also consider in terms
of three steps:
1. Like the previous function, this one begins by projecting points from 3D to
2D. This time, we are projecting the reference object's vertices, which we
defined in our __init__ method, in the Initializing the tracker section. Here
is the projection code:
1. Again, we convert the projected points from a floating-point format to an
integer format (as OpenCV's drawing functions expect integers):
1. The projected vertices form a convex polygon. We can paint the mask black
(as a background), and then draw this convex polygon in white:
Remember that our _track_object method will use this mask when it processes
the next frame. Specifically, _track_object will only look for keypoints in the
masked region. Therefore, it will attempt to find the object in the region where we
recently found it.
Potentially, we could improve this technique by applying a morphological
dilation operation to expand the masked region. In this way, we would
search for the object, not only in the region where we recently found it, but
also in the surrounding region.
1. Now, in the BGR frame, let's highlight the masked region in yellow in order
to visualize the shape of the tracked object. To make a region more yellow,
we can subtract a value from the blue channel. The cv2.subtract function

--- Strana 274 ---
suits our purpose because it accepts an optional mask argument. Here is how
we use it:
When we tell cv2.subtract to subtract a single scalar value such as 48
from an image, it subtracts the value only from the image's first channel – in
this case (and most cases), the blue channel of a BGR image. This is
arguably a bug, but it is convenient for tinting things yellow!
That was the last method in the ImageTrackingDemo class. Now, let's bring the
demo to life by instantiating this class and calling its run method!
Running and testing the application
To complete the implementation of ImageTrackingDemo.py , let's write a main
function that launches the application with a specified capture device, FOV, and
target frame rate:
Here, we are using a capture resolution of 1280 x 720, a diagonal FOV of 70
degrees, and a target frame rate of 25 FPS. You should choose parameters that are
appropriate for your camera and lens, and for the speed of your system.
Let's suppose we run the application, and it loads the following image from
reference_image.png :

--- Strana 275 ---
Figure 9.4: A book cover, which we will use as an image to track
This is, of course, the cover of OpenCV 4 for Secret Agents (Packt
Publishing, 2019), a book by Joseph Howse. Not only is it a vault of secret
knowledge, it is also a good target for image tracking. You should buy a
print copy!

--- Strana 276 ---
During initialization, the application saves the following visualization of the
reference keypoints to a new file called reference_image_keypoints.png :
Figure 9.5: Visualization of ORB descriptors for a book cover
We have seen this type of visualization before in Chapter 6 , Retrieving Images
and Searching Using Image Descriptors. The large circles represent keypoints

--- Strana 277 ---
that can be matched at a small scale (for example, when we view the printed
image from a large distance or with a low-resolution camera). The small circles
represent keypoints that can be matched at a large scale (for example, when we
view the printed image at a close distance or with a high-resolution camera). The
best keypoints are the ones marked by many concentric circles, since these can be
matched at various scales. Within each circle, the radial line represents the normal
orientation of the keypoint.
Studying this visualization, we can infer that this image's best keypoints are
concentrated in the high-contrast text (white against dark gray) in the top part of
the image. Other useful keypoints are found in many regions, including the high-
contrast lines (black against saturated colors) in the bottom part of the image.
Next, we see a camera feed. When we put a print of the reference image in front
of the camera, we see an AR visualization of the tracking results:
Figure 9.6: Results of image tracking and AR visualization with a book
cover
Of course, the preceding screenshot shows a nearly-frontal view of the book
cover. The axis directions are drawn as expected. The X axis (in red) points to the
book cover's right (the viewer's left). The Y axis (in green) points up. The Z axis
(in blue) points forward from the book cover (toward the viewer). As an AR

--- Strana 278 ---
effect, a semitransparent yellow highlight is superimposed atop the tracked book
cover (including the part covered up by Joseph Howse's index finger and middle
finger). The positions of the small green and red dots show that in this frame, the
good keypoint matches are concentrated in the region of the book's title, and most
of these good matches are inliers for cv2.solvePnPRansac .
If you are reading the print edition of this book, the screenshots are
reproduced in grayscale. To make the X, Y, and Z axes easier to distinguish
in a grayscale print, text labels have been added to the screenshots manually;
these text labels are not part of the program's output.
Because we took care to find good keypoints in several regions throughout the
image, the tracking can succeed even when a large part of the tracked image is in
shadow, covered up, or outside the frame. For example, in the following
screenshot, the axis directions and highlighted region are correct, even though
most of the book cover (including nearly all of the book title's, with the best
keypoints) is outside the frame:
Figure 9.7: Results of image tracking and AR visualization when only
part of the book cover is visible
Go ahead and conduct your own experiments with various reference images,
cameras, and viewing conditions. Try various resolutions for the reference image

--- Strana 279 ---
and camera. Remember to measure your camera's FOV and adjust the FOV
argument accordingly. Study the keypoint visualizations and the tracking results.
What kinds of input yield good (or bad) tracking results in our demo?
If you find it inconvenient to use printed images for tracking, you can
instead point your camera at a screen (such as a smartphone screen) where
you are displaying the image you want to track. Because a screen is backlit
(and it might be glossy, too), it might not give a faithful representation of
how a printed image would look in any given scene, but it typically works
well for a tracker's purposes.
Once you have experimented to your heart's content, let's consider some of the
ways our 3D tracker could be improved.

--- Strana 280 ---
Improving the 3D tracking
algorithm
Essentially, our 3D tracking algorithm combines three approaches:
1. Find a 6DOF pose with a PnP solver, whose inputs depend on
FLANN-based matches of ORB descriptors..
2. Use a Kalman filter to stabilize the 6DOF tracking result.
3. If an object was tracked in the previous frame, use a mask to limit the
search to the region where the object is now most likely to be found.
Often, commercial solutions for 3D tracking involve additional approaches.
We have relied on successfully using a descriptor matcher and a PnP solver
for every frame; however, a more complex algorithm may provide some
alternatives as fallbacks or as cross-checking mechanisms. This is in case
the descriptor matcher and PnP solver miss the object in some frames, or in
case they are too computationally expensive to use for every frame. The
following alternatives are widely used:
Update the previous keypoint matches based on optical flow, and
update the previous 6DOF pose based on the homography between the
keypoints' old and new positions (according to the optical flow).
Update the rotational component of the 6DOF pose based on an
accelerometer, gyroscope, and magnetometer (compass). Typically,
even in consumer devices, these sensors together can successfully
measure small or large changes in rotation. Often, this set of sensor
data is used in combination with a Kalman filter, and this filtering can
be done in a way that avoids the singularity problems associated with
conventional Euler angles. For example, see the paper Euler Angle
Based Attitude Estimation Avoiding the Singularity Problem , by Chul
Woo Kang and Chan Gook Park; it is available at
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1474667016439212
.

--- Strana 281 ---
Update the positional component of the 6DOF pose based on a
barometer and GPS. Typically, in consumer devices, a barometer can
measure changes in altitude with an accuracy of approximately 10 cm,
while GPS can measure changes in longitude and latitude with an
accuracy of approximately 10 m. Depending on the use case, these
may or may not be usable levels of accuracy. If we are attempting to
perform AR on large and distant features of a landscape – for example,
if we want to draw a virtual dragon perched atop a real mountaintop –
then 10 m accuracy may be fine. For detailed work – for example, if
we want to draw a virtual ring on a real finger – 10 m or even 10 cm
accuracy is unusable.
Update the positional acceleration component of the Kalman filter
based on an accelerometer (a sensor that measures acceleration).
Typically, in consumer devices, accelerometers suffer from drift (a
tendency for errors to exhibit runaway growth in one direction or
another), so this option should be approached with caution.
These alternative techniques are beyond the scope of this book – and,
indeed, some of them are not computer vision techniques – so we leave
them to you for independent study.
A final word : Sometimes, significant improvements in tracking results are
achievable by altering a preprocessing algorithm rather than the tracking
algorithm. Earlier in this chapter, in the Performing grayscale conversion
section, we mentioned Macêdo, Melo, and Kelner's paper on grayscale
conversion algorithms and SIFT descriptors. You may wish to read that
paper and conduct your own experiments to determine how the choice of
grayscale conversion algorithm affects the number of tracking inliers when
using ORB descriptors or other types of descriptors.

--- Strana 282 ---
Summary
This chapter introduced AR, along with a robust set of approaches to the
problem of tracking an image in 3D space.
We began by learning the concept of 6DOF tracking and different ways of
representing rotations. We recognized that familiar tools such as ORB
descriptors, FLANN-based matching, and Kalman filtering are useful in this
kind of tracking, but that we also needed to work with camera and lens
parameters in order to solve the PnP problem.
Next, we addressed practical considerations of how best to represent a
reference object (such as a book cover or a photo print) in the form of a
grayscale image, a set of 2D keypoints, and a set of 3D keypoints.
We proceeded to implement a class that encapsulated a demo of image
tracking in 3D space, with a 3D highlighting effect as a basic form of AR.
Our implementation dealt with real-time considerations, such as the need to
update the Kalman filter's transition matrix based on fluctuations in the
frame rate.
Finally, we considered ways to potentially improve the 3D tracking
algorithm using additional computer vision techniques, or other sensor-
based techniques.
Next, in one of the most advanced chapters of this book, we will tackle
even bigger challenges in the real, three-dimensional world; we will scan
and navigate a whole 3D environment in real time!!

--- Strana 283 ---
Join our book community on
Discord
https://discord.gg/djGjeMECxw
This chapter introduces a family of machine learning models called
artificial neural networks ( ANNs ), or sometimes just neural networks ,
and we will utilize this knowledge to perform various tasks such as
handwritten digit recognition, object detection and recognition, and finally
gesture recognition from a video input.
A key characteristic of neural networks is that they attempt to learn
relationships among variables in a multi-layered fashion; they learn
multiple functions to predict intermediate results before combining these
into a single function to predict something meaningful (such as the class of
an object). Recent versions of OpenCV contain an increasing amount of
functionality related to ANNs – and, in particular, ANNs with many layers,
called deep neural networks ( DNNs ). We will experiment with both
shallower ANNs and DNNs in this chapter.
We have already gained some exposure to machine learning in other
chapters – especially in Chapter 7 , Building Custom Object Detectors ,
where we developed a car/non-car classifier using SURF descriptors, a
BoW, and an SVM. With this basis for comparison, you might be

--- Strana 284 ---
wondering, what is so special about ANNs? Why are we devoting this
book's final chapter to them?
ANNs aim to provide superior accuracy in the following circumstances:
There are many input variables, which may have complex, nonlinear
relationships to each other.
There are many output variables, which may have complex, nonlinear
relationships to the input variables. (Typically, the output variables in a
classification problem are the confidence scores for the classes, so if
there are many classes, there are many output variables.)
There are many hidden (unspecified) variables that may have complex,
nonlinear relationships to the input and output variables. DNNs even
aim to model multiple layers of hidden variables, which are
interrelated primarily to each other rather than being related primarily
to input or output variables.
These circumstances exist in many – perhaps most – real-world problems.
Thus, the promised advantages of ANNs and DNNs are enticing. On the
other hand, ANNs and especially DNNs are notoriously opaque models,
insofar as they work by predicting the existence of an arbitrary number of
nameless, hidden variables that may relate to everything else.
Over the course of this chapter, we will cover the following topics:
Understanding ANNs as a statistical model and as a tool for supervised
machine learning.
Understanding ANN topology or, in other words, the organization of an
ANN into layers of interconnected neurons. Particularly, we will consider
the topology that enables an ANN to act as a type of classifier known as a
multi-layer perceptron ( MLP ).
Training and using ANNs as classifiers in OpenCV.
Building an application that detects and recognizes handwritten digits (0 to
9). For this, we will train an ANN based on a widely used dataset called
MNIST, which contains samples of handwritten digits.

--- Strana 285 ---
Loading and using pre-trained DNNs in OpenCV. We will cover examples
of object classification, face detection, and gender classification with
DNNs.
By the end of this chapter, you will be in a good position to train and use
ANNs in OpenCV, to use pre-trained DNNs from a variety of sources, and
to start exploring other libraries that allow you to train your own DNNs.

--- Strana 286 ---
Technical requirements
This chapter uses Python, OpenCV, and NumPy. Please refer to Chapter 1 ,
Setting Up OpenCV , for installation instructions.
The completed code and sample videos for this chapter can be found in this
book's GitHub repository, https://github.com/PacktPublishing/Learning-
OpenCV-5-Computer-Vision-with-Python-Fourth-Edition , in the
chapter11 folder.

--- Strana 287 ---
Understanding ANNs
Let's define ANNs in terms of their basic role and components. Although much of
the literature on ANNs emphasizes the idea that they are biologically inspired by
the way neurons connect in a brain, we don't need to be biologists or
neuroscientists to understand the fundamental concepts of an ANN.
First of all, an ANN is a statistical model . What is a statistical model? A
statistical model is a pair of elements, namely the space S (a set of observations)
and the probability, P , where P is a distribution that approximates S (in other
words, a function that would generate a set of observations that is very similar to
S ).
Here are two different ways to think of P :
P is a simplification of a complex scenario.
P is the function that generated S in the first place, or at the very least a set
of observations very similar to S .
Thus, ANNs are models that take a complex reality, simplify it, and deduce a
function to (approximately) represent the statistical observations we would expect
from that reality, in a mathematical form.
ANNs, like other types of machine learning models, can learn from observations
in one of the following ways:
Supervised learning : Under this approach, we want the model's training process
to produce a function that maps a known set of input variables to a known set of
output variables. We know, a priori , the nature of the prediction problem, and we
delegate the process of finding a function that solves this problem to the ANN. To
train the model, we must provide input samples along with the correct,
corresponding outputs. For a classification problem, the output variables may be
confidence scores for one or more classes.
Unsupervised learning : Under this approach, the set of output variables is not
known a priori . The model's training process must yield a set of output variables,
as well as a function to map the input variables to these output variables. For a
classification problem, unsupervised learning can lead to the discovery of

--- Strana 288 ---
previously unknown classes, such as previously unknown diseases in the context
of medical data. Unsupervised learning may use techniques including (but not
limited to) clustering, which we explored in the context of BoW models in
Chapter 7 , Building Custom Object Detectors .
Reinforcement learning : This approach turns the typical prediction problem
upside down. Before training the model, we already have a system that yields
values for a known set of output variables when we feed it values for a known set
of input variables. We know, a priori , a way of scoring a sequence of outputs
based on their goodness (desirability) or lack thereof. However, we might not
know the real function that maps inputs to outputs – or, even if we do know it, it is
so complex that we cannot solve it for optimal inputs. Thus, we want the model's
training process to produce a function that predicts the next-in-sequence optimal
inputs, based on the last outputs. During training, the model learns from the score
that eventually arises from its actions (its chosen inputs). Essentially, the model
must learn to become a good decision-maker within the context of a particular
system of rewards and punishments.
Throughout the remainder of this chapter, we will confine our discussions to
supervised learning, as this is the most common approach to machine learning in
the context of computer vision.
The next step in our journey toward comprehending ANNs is to understand how
an ANN improves on the concept of a simple statistical model, and on other types
of machine learning.
What if the function that generated the dataset is likely to take a large number of
(unknown) inputs?
The strategy that ANNs adopt is to delegate work to a number of neurons , nodes
, or units , each of which is capable of approximating the function that created the
inputs. In mathematics, approximation is the process of defining a simpler
function whose output is similar to that of a more complex function, at least for
some range of inputs.
The difference between the approximate function's output and the original
function's output is called the error . A defining characteristic of a neural network
is that the neurons must be capable of approximating a nonlinear function.
Let's take a closer look at neurons.

--- Strana 289 ---
Understanding neurons and perceptrons
Often, to solve a classification problem, an ANN is designed as a multi-layer
perceptron ( MLP ), in which each neuron acts as a kind of binary classifier
called a perceptron . The perceptron is a concept that dates back to the 1950s. To
put it simply, a perceptron is a function that takes a number of inputs and
produces a single value. Each of the inputs has an associated weight that signifies
its importance in an activation function . The activation function should have a
nonlinear response; for example, a sigmoid function (sometimes called an S-
curve) is a common choice. A threshold function, called a discriminant , is
applied to the activation function's output to convert it into a binary classification
of 0 or 1. Here is a visualization of this sequence, with inputs on the left, the
activation function in the middle, and the discriminant on the right:
What do the input weights represent, and how are they determined?
Neurons are interconnected, insofar as one neuron's output can be an input for
many other neurons. Each input weight defines the strength of the connection
between two neurons. These weights are adaptive, meaning that they change in
time according to a learning algorithm.
Due to the neurons' interconnectedness, the network has layers. Now, let's
examine how these layers are typically organized.
Understanding the layers of a neural network
Here is a visual representation of a neural network:

--- Strana 290 ---

--- Strana 291 ---
As the preceding diagram shows, there are at least three distinct layers in a neural
network: the input layer , the hidden layer , and the output layer . There can be
more than one hidden layer; however, one hidden layer is enough to resolve many
real-life problems. A neural network with multiple hidden layers is sometimes
called a deep neural network ( DNN ).
If we are using an ANN as a classifier, then each output node's output value is a
confidence score for a class. For a given sample (that is, a given set of input
values), we want to know which output node produces the highest output value.
This highest-scoring output node corresponds to the predicted class .
How do we determine the network's topology, and how many neurons do we need
to create for each layer? Let's make this determination layer by layer.
Choosing the size of the input layer
The number of nodes in the input layer is, by definition, the number of inputs into
the network. For example, let's say you want to create an ANN to help you
determine an animal's species based on measurements of its physical attributes. In
principle, we can choose any measurable attributes. If we choose to classify
animals based on weight, length, and number of teeth, that is a set of three
attributes, and thus our network needs to contain three input nodes.
Are these three input nodes an adequate basis for species classification? Well, in a
real-life problem, surely not – but in a toy problem, it depends on the output we
are trying to achieve, and this is our next consideration.
Choosing the size of the output layer
For a classifier, the number of nodes in the output layer is, by definition, the
number of classes the network can distinguish. Continuing with the preceding
example of an animal classification network, we can use an output layer of four
nodes if we know we are going to deal with the following animals: dog, condor,
dolphin, and dragon(!). If we try to classify data for an animal that is not in one of
these categories, the network will predict the class that is most likely to resemble
this unrepresented animal.
Now, we come to a difficult problem – the size of the hidden layer.

--- Strana 292 ---
Choosing the size of the hidden layer
There are no agreed-upon rules of thumb for choosing the size of the hidden
layer; it must be chosen based on experimentation. For every real-world problem
where you want to apply ANNs, you will need to train, test, and retrain your ANN
until you find a number of hidden nodes that yield acceptable accuracy.
Of course, even when choosing a parameter's value by experimentation, you
might wish for the experts to suggest a starting value, or a range of values, for
your tests. Unfortunately, there is no expert consensus on these points either.
Some experts offer rules of thumb based on the following broad suggestions
(these should be taken with a grain of salt):
If the input layer is large, the number of hidden neurons should be between the
size of the input layer and the size of the output layer – and, typically, closer to the
size of the output layer.
On the other hand, if the input and output layers are both small, the hidden layer
should be the largest layer.
If the input layer is small but the output layer is large, the hidden layer should be
closer to the size of the input layer.
Other experts suggest that the number of training samples also needs to be taken
into account; a greater number of training samples implies that a greater number
of hidden nodes might be useful.
One critical factor to keep in mind is overfitting . Overfitting occurs when there
is such an inordinate amount of pseudo-information contained in the hidden layer,
compared to the information actually provided by the training data, that the
classification is not very meaningful. The larger the hidden layer, the more
training data it requires in order for it to learn properly. Of course, as the size of
the training dataset grows, so does the training time.
For some of the ANN sample projects in this chapter, we will use a hidden layer
size of 60 as a starting point. Given a large training set, 60 hidden nodes can yield
decent accuracy for a variety of classification problems.
Now that we have a general idea of what ANNs are, let's see how OpenCV
implements them, and how to put them to good use. We will start with a minimal

--- Strana 293 ---
code example. Then, we will flesh out the animal-themed classifier that we
discussed in the previous two sections. Finally, we will work our way up to a
more realistic application, in which we will classify handwritten digits based on
image data.

--- Strana 294 ---
Training a basic ANN in OpenCV
OpenCV provides a class, cv2.ml_ANN_MLP , that implements an ANN as a
multi-layer perceptron ( MLP ). This is exactly the kind of model we
described earlier, in the Understanding neurons and perceptrons section.
To create an instance of cv2.ml_ANN_MLP , and to format data for this
ANN's training and use, we rely on functionality in OpenCV's machine
learning module, cv2.ml . As you may recall, this is the same module that
we used for SVM-related functionality in Chapter 7 , Building Custom
Object Detectors . Moreover, cv2.ml_ANN_MLP and cv2.ml_SVM share a
common base class called cv2.ml_StatModel . Therefore, you will find
that OpenCV provides similar APIs for ANNs and SVMs.
Let's examine a dummy example as a gentle introduction to ANNs. This
example will use completely meaningless data, but it will show us the basic
API for training and using an ANN in OpenCV:
To begin, we import OpenCV and NumPy as usual:
Now, we create an untrained ANN:
After creating the ANN, we need to configure its number of layers and
nodes:
The layer sizes are defined by the NumPy array that we pass to the
setLayerSizes method. The first element is the size of the input layer, the
last element is the size of the output layer, and all the in-between elements
define the sizes of the hidden layers. For example, [9, 15, 9] specifies 9
input nodes, 9 output nodes, and a single hidden layer with 15 nodes. If we
changed this to [9, 15, 13, 9] , it would specify two hidden layers with
15 and 13 nodes, respectively.
We can also configure the activation function, the training method, and the
training termination criteria, as follows:

--- Strana 295 ---
Here, we are using a symmetrical sigmoid activation function (
cv2.ml.ANN_MLP_SIGMOID_SYM ) and a backpropagation training method (
cv2.ml.ANN_MLP_BACKPROP ). Backpropagation is an algorithm that
calculates errors of predictions at the output layer, traces the sources of the
errors backward through previous layers, and updates the weights in order
to reduce errors.
Let's train the ANN. We need to specify training inputs (or samples , in
OpenCV's terminology), the corresponding correct outputs (or responses
), and whether the data's format (or layout ) is one row per sample or one
column per sample. Here is an example of how we train the model with a
single sample:
Realistically, we would want to train any ANN with a larger dataset that
contains far more than one sample. We could do this by extending
training_samples and training_responses so that they contain multiple
rows, representing multiple samples and their corresponding responses.
Alternatively, we could call the ANN's train method multiple times, with
new data each time. The latter approach requires some additional
arguments for the train method, and it is demonstrated in the next
section, Training an ANN- classifier in multiple epochs.
Note that in this case, we are training the ANN as a classifier. Each
response is a confidence score for a class, and in this case, there are nine
classes. We will refer to them by their 0-based indices, as classes 0 to 8. Our
training sample in this case has a response of [0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0,
1.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0] , meaning that it is an instance of class 5 (with
confidence 1.0), and it is definitely not an instance of any other class (as the
confidence is 0.0 for every other class).
To complete our minimal tour of the ANN's API, let's make another sample,
classify it, and print the result:
This will print the following result:
This means that the provided input was classified as belonging to class 5.
Again, this is only a dummy example and the classification is pretty
meaningless; however, the network behaved correctly. In the preceding

--- Strana 296 ---
code, we only provided one training record, which was a sample of class 5,
so the network classified a new input as belonging to class 5. (As far as our
woefully limited training dataset suggests, other classes besides 5 might
never occur.)
As you may have guessed, the output of a prediction is a tuple, with the first
value being the class and the second being an array containing the
probabilities for each class. The predicted class will have the highest value.
Let's move on to a slightly more believable example – animal classification.

--- Strana 297 ---
Training an ANN classifier in
multiple epochs
Let's create an ANN that attempts to classify animals based on three
measurements: weight, length, and number of teeth. This is, of course, a
mock scenario. Realistically, no one would describe an animal with just
these three statistics. However, our intent is to improve our understanding
of ANNs before we start applying them to image data.
Compared to the minimal example in the previous section, our animal
classification mock-up will be more sophisticated in the following ways:
We will increase the number of neurons in the hidden layer.
We will use a larger training dataset. For convenience, we will generate this
dataset pseudorandomly.
We will train the ANN in multiple epochs, meaning that we will train and
retrain it multiple times with the same dataset each time.
The number of neurons in the hidden layer is an important parameter that
needs to be tested in order to optimize the accuracy of any ANN. You will
find that a larger hidden layer may improve accuracy up to a point, and
then it will overfit, unless you start compensating with an enormous
training dataset. Likewise, up to a point, a greater number of epochs may
improve accuracy, but too many will result in overfitting .
Let's go through the implementation step by step:
First, we import OpenCV and NumPy as usual. Then, from the Python
standard library, we import the randint function to generate pseudorandom
integers and the uniform function to generate pseudorandom floating-point
numbers:

--- Strana 298 ---
Next, we create and configure the ANN. This time, we use a three-neuron
input layer, a 50-neuron hidden layer, and a four-neuron output layer, as
highlighted in bold in the following code:
Now, we need some data. We aren't really interested in representing animals
accurately; we just require a bunch of records to be used as training data.
Thus, we define four functions in order to generate random samples of
different classes, along with another four functions to generate the correct
classification results for training purposes:
We also define the following helper function in order to convert a sample
and classification into a pair of NumPy arrays:
Let's proceed with the creation of our fake animal data. We will create
20,000 samples per class:
Now, let's train the ANN. As we discussed at the start of this section, we
will use multiple training epochs. Each epoch is an iteration of a loop, as
shown in the following code:
For real-world problems with large and diverse training datasets, an ANN
can potentially benefit from hundreds of training epochs. For the best
results, you may wish to keep training and testing an ANN until you reach
convergence, which means that further epochs no longer produce a
noticeable improvement in the accuracy of the results .
Note that we must pass the cv2.ml.ANN_MLP_UPDATE_WEIGHTS flag to the
ANN's train function to update the previously trained model rather than
training a new model from scratch. This is a critical point to remember
whenever you are training a model incrementally, as we are doing here.
Having trained our ANN, we should test it. For each class, let's generate
100 new random samples, classify them using the ANN, and keep track of
the number of correct classifications:
Finally, let's print the accuracy statistics:

--- Strana 299 ---
When we run the script, the preceding code block should produce the
following output:
Since we are dealing with random data, the results may vary each time you
run the script. Typically, the accuracy should be high or even perfect
because we have set up a simple classification problem with non-
overlapping ranges of input data. (The range of random weight values for a
dog does not overlap with the range for a dragon, and so forth.)
You may wish to take some time to experiment with the following
modifications (one at a time) so that you can see how the ANN's accuracy is
affected:
Change the number of training samples by modifying the value of the
RECORDS variable.
Change the number of training epochs by modifying the value of the
EPOCHS variable.
Make the ranges of input data partially overlapping by editing the
parameters of the uniform and randint function calls in our dog_sample ,
condor_sample , dolphin_sample , and dragon_sample functions.
When you are ready, we will proceed with an example containing real-life
image data. With this, we will train an ANN to recognize handwritten digits.

--- Strana 300 ---
Recognizing handwritten digits with
an ANN
A handwritten digit is any of the 10 Arabic numerals (0 to 9), written manually
with a pen or pencil, as opposed to being printed by a machine. The appearance
of handwritten digits can vary significantly. Different people have different
handwriting, and – with the possible exception of a skilled calligrapher – a person
does not produce identical digits every time he or she writes. This variability
means that the visual recognition of handwritten digits is a non-trivial problem for
machine learning. Indeed, students and researchers in machine learning often test
their skills and new algorithms by attempting to train an accurate recognizer for
handwritten digits. We will approach this challenge in the following manner:
Load data from a Python-friendly version of the MNIST database. This is a
widely used database containing images of handwritten digits.
Using the MNIST data, train an ANN in multiple epochs.
Load an image of a sheet of paper with many handwritten digits on it.
Based on contour analysis, detect the individual digits on the paper.
Use our ANN to classify the detected digits.
Review the results in order to determine the accuracy of our detector and our
ANN-based classifier.
Before we delve into the implementation, let's review some information about the
MNIST database.
Understanding the MNIST database of handwritten
digits
The MNIST database (or Modified National Institute of Standards and
Technology database) is publicly available at http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/ .
The database includes a training set of 60,000 images of handwritten digits. Half
of these were written by employees of the United States Census Bureau, while the
other half were written by high school students in the United States.
The database also includes a test set of 10,000 images, gathered from the same
writers. All the training and test images are in grayscale format, with dimensions

--- Strana 301 ---
of 28 x 28 pixels. The digits are white (or shades of gray) on a black background.
For example, here are three of the MNIST training samples:
As an alternative to using MNIST, you could, of course, build a similar database
yourself. This would involve collecting a large number of images of handwritten
digits, converting the images into grayscale, cropping them so that each image
contains a single digit in a standardized position, and scaling the images so that
they are all the same size. You would also need to label the images so that a
program could read the correct classification for the purpose of training and
testing a classifier.
Many authors provide examples of how to use the MNIST database with various
machine learning libraries and algorithms – not just OpenCV and not just ANNs.
Michael Nielsen, the author of the free online book Neural Networks and Deep
Learning , devotes a chapter to MNIST and ANNs here:
http://neuralnetworksanddeeplearning.com/chap1.html . He shows how to
implement an ANN almost from scratch, using only NumPy, and this is excellent
reading if you want to deepen your understanding beyond the kind of high-level
functionality that OpenCV exposes. His code is freely available on GitHub at
https://github.com/mnielsen/neural-networks-and-deep-learning .
Nielsen provides a version of MNIST as a PKL.GZ (gzip-compressed Pickle) file,
which can be easily loaded into Python. For the purposes of our book's OpenCV
sample, we (the authors) have taken Nielsen's PKL.GZ version of MNIST,
reorganized it for our purposes, and placed it inside this book's GitHub repository
at chapter10/digits_data/mnist.pkl.gz .
Now that we know something about the MNIST database, let's consider what
ANN parameters are appropriate for this training set.

--- Strana 302 ---
Choosing training parameters for the MNIST
database
Each MNIST sample is an image containing 784 pixels (that is, 28 x 28 pixels).
Thus, our ANN's input layer will have 784 nodes. The output layer will have 10
nodes because there are 10 classes of digits (0 to 9).
We are free to choose the values of other parameters, such as the number of nodes
in the hidden layer, the number of training samples to use, and the number of
training epochs. As usual, experimentation can help us find values that offer
acceptable training time and accuracy, without overfitting the model to the
training data. Based on some experimentation that the authors of this book have
done, we will use 60 hidden nodes, 50,000 training samples, and 10 epochs. These
parameters will be good enough for a preliminary test, keeping the training time
down to a few minutes (depending on the processing power of your machine).
Implementing a module to train the ANN
Training an ANN based on MNIST is something you might want to do in future
projects as well. To make our code more reusable, we can write a Python module
that is solely dedicated to this training process. Then (in the next section,
Implementing the main module ), we will import this training module into a main
module, where we will implement our demonstration of digit detection and
classification.
Let's implement the training module in a file called digits_ann.py :
To begin, we will import the gzip and pickle modules from the Python standard
library. As usual, we will also import OpenCV and NumPy:
We will use the gzip and pickle modules to decompress and load the MNIST
data from the mnist.pkl.gz file. We briefly mentioned this file earlier, in the
Understanding the MNIST database of handwritten digits section. It contains the
MNIST data in nested tuples, in the following format:
In turn, the elements of these tuples are in the following format:
training_images is a NumPy array of 60,000 images, where each image is a
vector of 784-pixel values (flattened from an original shape of 28 x 28 pixels).

--- Strana 303 ---
The pixel values are floating-point numbers in the range 0.0 (black) to 1.0
(white), inclusive.
training_ids is a NumPy array of 60,000 digit IDs, where each ID is a number
in the range 0 to 9, inclusive. training_ids[i] corresponds to
training_images[i] .
test_images is a NumPy array of 10,000 images, where each image is a vector
of 784-pixel values (flattened from an original shape of 28 x 28 pixels). The pixel
values are floating-point numbers in the range 0.0 (black) to 1.0 (white),
inclusive.
test_ids is a NumPy array of 10,000 digit IDs, where each ID is a number in
the range 0 to 9, inclusive. test_ids[i] corresponds to test_images[i] .
Let's write the following helper function to decompress and load the contents of
mnist.pkl.gz :
Note that in the preceding code, training_data is a tuple, equivalent to
(training_images, training_ids) , and test_data is also a tuple, equivalent
to (test_images, test_ids) .
We must reformat the raw data in order to match the format that OpenCV expects.
Specifically, when we provide sample output to train the ANN, it must be a vector
with 10 elements (for 10 classes of digits), rather than a single digit ID. For
convenience, we will also apply Python's built-in zip function to reorganize the
data in such a way that we can iterate over matching pairs of input and output
vectors as tuples. Let's write the following helper function to reformat the data:
Note that the preceding code calls load_data and another helper function,
vectorized_result . The latter function converts an ID into a classification
vector, as follows:
For example, the ID 1 is converted into a NumPy array containing the values
[0.0, 1.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0. 0.0] . This 10-element
array, as you may have guessed, corresponds to the ANN's output layer, and we
can use it as a sample of correct output when we train the ANN.
The preceding functions – load_data , wrap_data , and vectorized_result –
have been adapted from Nielsen's code for loading his version of mnist.pkl.gz .

--- Strana 304 ---
For more information about Nielsen's work, refer to the Understanding the
MNIST database of handwritten digits section of this chapter.
So far, we have written functions that load and reformat MNIST data. Now, let's
write a function that will create an untrained ANN:
Note that we have hardcoded the sizes of the input and output layers, based on the
nature of the MNIST data. However, we have allowed the caller of this function
to specify the number of nodes in the hidden layer.
For further discussion of parameters, refer to the Choosing training parameters
for the MNIST database section of this chapter.
Now, we need a training function that allows the caller to specify the number of
MNIST training samples and the number of epochs. Much of the training
functionality should be familiar from our previous ANN samples, so let's look at
the implementation in its entirety and then discuss some details afterward:
Note that we load the data and then train the ANN incrementally by iterating over
a specified number of training epochs, with a specified number of samples in each
epoch. For every 1,000 training samples that we process, we print a message
about the progress of the training. Finally, we return both the trained ANN and the
MNIST test data. We could have just returned the ANN, but having the test data
on hand is useful in case we want to check the ANN's accuracy.
Of course, the purpose of a trained ANN is to make predictions, so we will
provide the following predict function in order to wrap the ANN's own predict
method:
This function takes a trained ANN and a sample image; it performs a minimal
amount of data sanitization by making sure the sample image is 28 x 28 and by
resizing it if it isn't. Then, it flattens the image data into a vector before giving it
to the ANN for classification.
That's all the ANN-related functionality we will need to support our demo
application. However, let's also implement a test function that measures a
trained ANN's accuracy by classifying a given set of test data, such as the MNIST
test data. Here is the relevant code:
Now, let's take a short detour and write a minimal test that leverages all the
preceding code and the MNIST dataset. After that, we will proceed to implement

--- Strana 305 ---
the main module of our demo application.
Implementing a minimal test module
Let's make another script, test_digits_ann.py , in order to test the functions
from our digits_ann module. The test script is quite trivial; here it is:
Note that we haven't specified the number of hidden nodes, so create_ann will
use its default parameter value: 60 hidden nodes. Similarly, train will use its
default parameter values: 50,000 samples and 10 epochs.
When we run this script, it should print training and test information similar to the
following:
Here, we can see that the ANN achieved 95.39% accuracy when classifying the
10,000 test samples in the MNIST dataset. This is an encouraging result, but let's
see how well the ANN can generalize. Can it accurately classify data from an
entirely different source, unrelated to MNIST? Our main application, which
detects digits from our own image of a sheet of paper, will provide this kind of
challenge to the classifier.
Implementing the main module
Our demo's main script takes everything we have learned in this chapter about
ANNs and MNIST and combines it with some of the object detection techniques
that we studied in previous chapters. Thus, in many ways, this is a capstone
project for us.
Let's implement the main script in a new file called
detect_and_classify_digits.py :
To begin, we will import OpenCV, NumPy, and our digits_ann module:
Now, let's write a couple of helper functions to analyze and adjust the bounding
rectangles of digits and other contours. As we have seen in previous chapters,
overlapping detections are a common problem. The following function, called
inside , will help us determine whether one bounding rectangle is entirely
contained inside another:

--- Strana 306 ---
With the help of the inside function, we will be able to easily choose only the
outermost bounding rectangle for each digit. This is important because we do not
want our detector to miss any extremities of a digit; such a mistake in detection
could make the classifier's job impossible. For example, if we detected only the
bottom half of a digit, 8, the classifier might reasonably see this region as a 0.
To further ensure that the bounding rectangles meet the classifier's needs, we will
use another helper function, called wrap_digit , to convert a tightly-fitting
bounding rectangle into a square with padding around the digit. Remember that
the MNIST data contains 28 x 28 pixel square images of digits, so we must
rescale any region of interest to this size before we attempt to classify it with our
MNIST-trained ANN. By using a padded bounding square instead of a tightly-
fitting bounding rectangle, we ensure that skinny digits (such as a 1) and fat digits
(such as a 0) are not stretched differently.
Let's look at the implementation of wrap_digit in multiple stages. First, we
modify the rectangle's smaller dimension (be it width or height) so that it equals
the larger dimension, and we modify the rectangle's x or y position so that the
center remains unchanged:
Next, we add 5-pixel padding on all sides:
At this point, our modified rectangle could possibly extend outside the image.
To avoid out of bounds problems, we crop the rectangle so that it lies entirely
within the image. This could leave us with non-square rectangles in these edge
cases, but this is an acceptable compromise; we would prefer to use a non-square
region of interest rather than having to entirely throw out a detected digit just
because it is at the edge of the image. Here is the code for bounds-checking and
cropping the rectangle:
Finally, we return the modified rectangle's coordinates:
This concludes the implementation of the wrap_digit helper function.
Now, let's proceed to the main part of the program. Here, we start by creating an
ANN and training it on MNIST data:
Note that we are using the create_ann and train functions from our
digits_ann module. As we mentioned earlier (in the Choosing parameters for
the MNIST database section), we are using 60 hidden nodes, 50,000 training

--- Strana 307 ---
samples, and 10 epochs. Although these are the default parameter values for our
functions, we specify them here anyway so that they are easier to see and modify
later, in case we want to experiment with other values.
Now, let's load a test image that contains many handwritten digits on a white
sheet of paper:
We are using the following image of Joe Minichino's handwriting (but, of course,
you could substitute another image if you prefer):

--- Strana 308 ---
Let's convert the image into grayscale and blur it in order to remove noise and
make the darkness of the ink more uniform:
Now that we have a smoothened grayscale image, we can apply a threshold and
some morphology operations to ensure that the numbers stand out from the
background and that the contours are relatively free of irregularities, which might
throw off the prediction. Here is the relevant code:
Note the threshold flag, cv2.THRESH_BINARY_INV , which is for an inverse binary
threshold. Since the samples in the MNIST database are white on black (and not
black on white), we turn the image into a black background with white numbers.
We use the thresholded image for both detection and classification.
After the morphology operation, we need to separately detect each digit in the
picture. As a step toward this, first, we need to find the contours:
Then, we iterate through the contours and find their bounding rectangles. We
discard any rectangles that we deem too large or too small to be digits. We also
discard any rectangles that are entirely contained in other rectangles. The
remaining rectangles are appended to a list of good rectangles, which (we
believe) contain individual digits. Let's look at the following code snippet:
Now that we have a list of good rectangles, we can iterate through them, sanitize
them using our wrap_digit function, and classify the image data inside them:
Moreover, after classifying each digit, we draw the sanitized bounding rectangle
and the classification result:
After processing all the regions of interest, we save the thresholded image and the
fully annotated image and display them until the user hits any key to end the
program:
That is the end of the script. When running it, we should see the thresholded
image as well as a visualization of detection and classification results. (The two
windows may overlap initially, so you might need to move one to see the other.)
Here is the thresholded image:

--- Strana 309 ---
Here is the visualization of the results:

--- Strana 310 ---
This image contains 110 sample digits: 10 digits in the single-digit numbers from
0 to 9, plus 100 digits in the double-digit numbers from 10 to 59. Out of these 110
samples, the bounds are correctly detected for 108 samples, meaning that the
detector's accuracy is 98.18%. Then, out of these 108 correctly detected samples,
the classification result is correct for 80 samples, meaning that the ANN
classifier's accuracy is 74.07%. This is a lot better than a random classifier, which
would correctly classify a digit only 10% of the time.
Thus, the ANN is evidently capable of learning to classify handwritten digits in
general, not just the ones in the MNIST training and test datasets. Let's consider

--- Strana 311 ---
some ways to improve its learning.
Trying to improve the ANN's training
We could apply a number of potential improvements to the problem of training
our ANN. We have already mentioned some of these potential improvements, but
let's review them here:
You could experiment with the size of your training dataset, the number of hidden
nodes, and the number of epochs until you find a peak level of accuracy.
You could modify our digits_ann.create_ann function so that it supports more
than one hidden layer.
You could also try different activation functions. We have used
cv2.ml.ANN_MLP_SIGMOID_SYM , but it isn't the only option; the others include
cv2.ml.ANN_MLP_IDENTITY , cv2.ml.ANN_MLP_GAUSSIAN ,
cv2.ml.ANN_MLP_RELU , and cv2.ml.ANN_MLP_LEAKYRELU .
Similarly, you could try different training methods. We have used
cv2.ml.ANN_MLP_BACKPROP . The other options include cv2.ml.ANN_MLP_RPROP
and cv2.ml.ANN_MLP_ANNEAL .
For more information about ANN-related parameters in OpenCV, refer to the
official documentation at
https://docs.opencv.org/master/d0/dce/classcv_1_1ml_1_1ANN__MLP.html .
Aside from experimenting with parameters, think carefully about your application
requirements. For example, where and by whom will your classifier be used? Not
everyone draws digits the same way. Indeed, people in different countries tend to
draw numbers in slightly different ways.
The MNIST database was compiled in the United States, where the digit 7 is
handwritten like the typewritten character 7. However, in Europe, the digit 7 is
often handwritten with a small horizontal line halfway through the diagonal
portion of the number. This stroke was introduced to help distinguish the
handwritten digit 7 from the handwritten digit 1.
For a more detailed overview of regional handwriting variations, check the
Wikipedia article on the subject, which is a good introduction, available at

--- Strana 312 ---
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regional_handwriting_variation.
This variation means that an ANN trained on the MNIST database may be less
accurate when applied to the classification of European handwritten digits. To
avoid such an outcome, you may choose to create your own training dataset
instead. In almost all circumstances, it is preferable to utilize training data that
belongs to the current application domain.
Finally, remember that once you are happy with the accuracy of your classifier,
you can always save it and reload it later so that it can be utilized in applications
without having to train the ANN every time.
The interface for this is just like the interface we saw in the Saving and loading a
trained SVM section, near the end of Chapter 7 , Building Custom Object
Detectors . Specifically, you can use code such as the following to save a trained
ANN to an XML file:
Subsequently, you can reload the trained ANN using code such as the following:
Now that we have learned how to create a reusable ANN for handwritten digit
classification, let's think about the use cases for such a classifier.
Finding other potential applications
The preceding demonstration is only the foundation of a handwriting recognition
application. You could readily extend the approach to videos and detect
handwritten digits in real-time, or you could train your ANN to recognize the
entire alphabet for a full-blown optical character recognition ( OCR ) system.
Detection and recognition of car registration plates would be another useful
extension of the lessons we have learned up to this point. The characters on
registration plates have a consistent appearance (at least, within a given country),
and this should be a simplifying factor in the OCR part of the problem.
You could also try applying ANNs to problems where we have previously used
SVMs, or vice versa. This way, you could see how their accuracy compares for
different kinds of data. Recall that in Chapter 7 , Building Custom Object
Detectors , we used SIFT descriptors as inputs for SVMs. Likewise, ANNs are
capable of handling high-level descriptors and not just plain old pixel data.

--- Strana 313 ---
As we have seen, the cv2.ml_ANN_MLP class is quite versatile, but in truth, it
covers only a small subset of the ways an ANN can be designed. Next, we will
learn about OpenCV's support for more complex deep neural networks ( DNNs
) that can be trained with a variety of other frameworks.

--- Strana 314 ---
Using DNNs from other
frameworks in OpenCV
OpenCV can load and use DNNs that have been trained in any of the
following frameworks:
Caffe ( http://caffe.berkeleyvision.org/ )
TensorFlow ( https://www.tensorflow.org/ )
Torch ( http://torch.ch/ )
Darknet ( https://pjreddie.com/darknet/ )
ONNX ( https://onnx.ai/ )
DLDT ( https://github.com/opencv/dldt/ )
The Deep Learning Deployment Toolkit ( DLDT ) is part of Intel's
OpenVINO Toolkit ( https://software.intel.com/openvino-toolkit/ ) for
computer vision. DLDT provides tools for optimizing DNNs from other
frameworks and for converting them into a common format. A collection of
DLDT-compatible models is freely available in a repository called the Open
Model Zoo ( https://github.com/opencv/open_model_zoo/ ). DLDT, the
Open Model Zoo, and OpenCV have some of the same people on their
development teams; all three of these projects are sponsored by Intel.
These frameworks use various file formats to store trained DNNs. Several
of these frameworks use a combination of a pair of file formats: a text file
to describe the model's parameters, plus a binary file to store the model
itself. The following code snippet shows the file types and OpenCV
functions that are relevant to loading a model from each framework:
After we load a model, we need to preprocess the data we will use with the
model. The necessary preprocessing is specific to the way the given DNN
was designed and trained, so any time we use a third-party DNN, we must
read about how that DNN was designed and trained. OpenCV provides a
function, cv2.dnn.blobFromImage , that can perform some common
preprocessing steps, depending on the parameters we pass to it. We can

--- Strana 315 ---
perform other preprocessing steps manually before passing data to this
function.
A neural network's input vector is sometimes called a tensor or blob –
 hence the function's name, cv2.dnn.blobFromImage .
Let's proceed to a practical example where we'll see a third-party DNN in
action.

--- Strana 316 ---
Detecting and classifying objects with
third-party DNNs
For this demo, we are going to capture frames from a webcam in real-time and
use a DNN to detect and classify 20 kinds of objects that may be in any given
frame. Yes, a single DNN can do all this in real-time on a typical laptop that a
programmer might use!
Before delving into the code, let's introduce the DNN that we will use. It is a
Caffe version of a model called MobileNet-SSD, which uses a hybrid of a
framework from Google called MobileNet and another framework called Single
Shot Detector ( SSD ) MultiBox. The latter framework has a GitHub repository
at https://github.com/weiliu89/caffe/tree/ssd/ . The training technique for the
Caffe version of MobileNet-SSD is provided by a project on GitHub at
https://github.com/chuanqi305/MobileNet-SSD/ . Copies of the following
MobileNet-SSD files can be found in this book's repository, in the
chapter10/objects_data folder:
MobileNetSSD_deploy.caffemodel: This is the model.
MobileNetSSD_deploy.prototxt: This is the text file that describes the
model's parameters.
This model's capabilities and proper usage will soon become clear as we progress
through our sample code:
As usual, we begin by importing OpenCV and NumPy:
We proceed to load the Caffe model with OpenCV in the same manner that we
described in the previous section:
We need to define some preprocessing parameters that are specific to this model.
It expects the input image to be 300 pixels high. Also, it expects the pixel values
in the image to be on a scale from -1.0 to 1.0. This means that, relative to the
usual scale from 0 to 255, it is necessary to subtract 127.5 and then divide by
127.5. We define the parameters as follows:

--- Strana 317 ---
We also define a confidence threshold, representing the minimum confidence
score that we require in order to accept a detection as a real object:
The model supports 20 classes of objects, with IDs from 1 to 20 (not 0 to 19). The
labels for these classes can be defined as follows:
Later, when we use class IDs to look up labels in our list, we must remember to
subtract 1 from the ID in order to obtain an index in the range 0 to 19 (not 1 to
20).
With the model and parameters at hand, we are ready to start capturing frames.
For each frame, we begin by calculating the aspect ratio. Remember that this
DNN expects the input to be based on an image that is 300 pixels high; however,
the width can vary in order to match the original aspect ratio. The following code
snippet shows how we capture a frame and calculate the appropriate input size:
At this point, we can simply use the cv2.dnn.blobFromImage function, with
several of its optional arguments, to perform the necessary preprocessing,
including resizing the frame and converting its pixel data into a scale from -1.0 to
1.0:
We feed the resulting blob to the DNN and get the model's output:
The results are an array, in a format that is specific to the model we are using.
For this object detection DNN – and for other DNNs trained with the SSD
framework – the results include a subarray of detected objects, each with its own
confidence score, rectangle coordinates, and class ID. The following code shows
how to access these, as well as how to use an ID to look up a label in the list we
defined earlier:
As we iterate over the detected objects, we draw the detection rectangles, along
with the classification labels and confidence scores:
The last thing we do with the frame is show it. Then, if the user has hit the Esc
key, we exit; otherwise, we capture another frame and continue to the next
iteration of the loop:
If you plug in a webcam and run the script, you should see a visualization of
detection and classification results, updated in real-time. Here is a screenshot

--- Strana 318 ---
showing Joseph Howse and Sanibel Delphinium Andromeda (a mighty, great, and
righteous cat) in their living room in a Canadian fishing village:
The DNN has correctly detected and classified a human person (with 99.4%
confidence), a cat (85.4%), a decorative bottle (72.1%), part of a sofa (61.2%),
and a woven picture of a boat (52.0%). Evidently, this DNN is well equipped to
classify the contents of living rooms in nautical settings!
This is only a first taste of the things that DNNs can do – and do in real time!
Next, let's see what we can achieve by combining three DNNs in one application.

--- Strana 319 ---
Detecting and classifying faces with
third-party DNNs
For this demonstration, we are going to use one DNN to detect faces and two
other DNNs to classify the age and gender of each detected face. Specifically, we
will use pre-trained Caffe models that are stored in the following files in the
chapter10/faces_data folder of this book's GitHub repository.
Here is an inventory of the files in this folder, and of the files' origins:
detection/res10_300x300_ssd_iter_140000.caffemodel : This is the DNN
for face detection. The OpenCV team has provided this file at
https://github.com/opencv/opencv_3rdparty/blob/dnn_samples_face_detector_20
170830/res10_300x300_ssd_iter_140000.caffemodel . This Caffe model was
trained with the SSD framework ( https://github.com/weiliu89/caffe/tree/ssd/ ).
Thus, its topology is similar to the MobileNet-SSD model that we used in the
previous section's example.
detection/deploy.prototxt : This is the text file that describes the parameters
of the preceding DNN for face detection. The OpenCV team provides this file at
https://github.com/opencv/opencv/blob/master/samples/dnn/face_detector/deploy.
prototxt .
The chapter10/faces_data/age_gender_classification folder contains the
following files, which are all provided by Gil Levi and Tal Hassner in their
GitHub repository ( https://github.com/GilLevi/AgeGenderDeepLearning/ ) and
on their project page ( https://talhassner.github.io/home/publication/2015_CVPR )
for their work on age and gender classification:
age_net.caffemodel : This is the DNN for age classification.
age_net_deploy.protext : This is the text file that describes the parameters
of the preceding DNN for age classification.
gender_net.caffemodel : This is the DNN for gender classification.
gender_net_deploy.protext : This is the text file that describes the
parameters of the preceding DNN for age classification.
average_face.npy and average_face.png : These files represent the
average faces in the classifiers' training dataset. The original file from Levi

--- Strana 320 ---
and Hassner is called mean.binaryproto , but we have converted it into a
NumPy-readable format and a standard image format, which are more
convenient for our purposes.
Let's see how we can use all these files in our code:
To begin the sample program, we load the face detection DNN, define its
parameters, and define a confidence threshold. We do this in much the same way
as we did for the object detection DNN in the previous section's sample:
We do not need to define labels for this DNN because it does not perform any
classification; it just predicts the coordinates of face rectangles.
Now, let's load the age classifier and define its class labels:
Note that in this model, the age labels have gaps between them. For example, '0-
2' is followed by '4-6' . Thus, if a person is actually 3 years old, the classifier
has no proper label for this case; at best, it can pick either of the neighboring
ranges, '0-2' or '4-6' . Presumably, the model's authors deliberately
chose disconnected ranges, in an effort to ensure that the classes are separable
with respect to the inputs. Let's consider the alternative. Based on data from facial
images, is it possible to separate a group of people who are 4 years old from a
group of people who are 4-years-less-a-day? Surely it isn't; they look the same.
Thus, it would be wrong to formulate a classification problem based on
contiguous age ranges. A DNN could be trained to predict age as a continuous
variable (such as a floating-point number of years), but this would be altogether
different than a classifier, which predicts confidence scores for various classes.
Now, let's load the gender classifier and define its labels:
The age and gender classifiers use the same blob size and the same average.
Rather than using a single color as the average, they use an average facial image,
which we will load (as a NumPy array in floating-point format) from an NPY file.
Later, we will subtract this average facial image from an actual facial image
before we perform classification. Here are the definitions of the blob size and
average image:
If you want to see what the average face looks like, open the file at
chapter10/faces_data/age_gender_classification/average_face.png ,
which contains the same data in a standard image format. Here it is:

--- Strana 321 ---
Of course, this is only the average face for a particular training dataset; it is not
necessarily representative of the true average face in the world population, or in
any particular nation or community. Even so, here, we can see a face that is a
blurry composite of many faces, and it contains no obvious clues about age or
gender. Note that the image is square, it is centered around the tip of the nose, and
it extends vertically from the top of the forehead to the base of the neck. To obtain
accurate classification results, we should take care to apply this classifier to facial
images that are cropped in the same manner.
Having set up our models and their parameters, let's proceed to capture and
process frames from a camera. With each frame, we begin by creating a blob that
is the same aspect ratio as the frame, and we feed this blob to the face detection
DNN:
Like the object detector that we used in the previous section's sample, the face
detector provides confidence scores and rectangle coordinates as part of its
results. For each detected face, we need to check whether the confidence score is
acceptably high, and, if it is, we'll get the coordinates of the face rectangle:
This face detection DNN produces rectangles that are taller than they are wide.
However, the age and gender classification DNNs expect square faces. Let's
widen the detected face rectangle to make it a square:
Note that if part of the square falls outside the bounds of the image, we skip this
detection result and continue to the next one.
At this point, we can select the square region of interest ( ROI ), which contains
the image data that we will use for age and gender classification. We proceed by

--- Strana 322 ---
scaling the ROI to the classifiers' blob size, converting it into floating-point
format, and subtracting the average face. From the resulting scaled and
normalized face, we create the blob:
We feed the blob to the age classifier, pick the class ID with the highest
confidence score, and then take note of the label and confidence score for this ID:
Similarly, we classify the gender:
We draw a visualization of the detected face rectangle, the expanded square ROI,
and the classification results:
To conclude, we show the annotated frame, and we keep capturing more frames
until the user hits the Esc key:
What does this program report about Joseph Howse? Let's take a look:
Without vanity, Joseph Howse is going to write a couple of paragraphs about this
result.
First, let's consider the detection of the face and the selection of the ROI. The face
has been accurately detected. The ROI has been correctly expanded to a square

--- Strana 323 ---
region that includes the neck – or, in this case, the full beard, which could be an
important region for the purposes of classifying age and gender.
Second, let's consider the classification. The truth is that Joseph Howse is male
and is approximately 35.8 years old at the time of this picture. Other human
beings who see Joseph Howse's face are able to judge with perfect confidence
that he is male; however, their estimates of his age vary widely. The gender
classification DNN says with perfect confidence (100.0%) that Joseph Howse is
male. The age classification DNN says with high confidence (96.6%) that he is
25-32 years old. Perhaps it is tempting to take the midpoint of this range, 28.5,
and say that the prediction has an error of -7.3 years, which is subjectively a big
underestimate, being -20.4% of the true age. However, this type of assessment is
a stretch of the prediction's meaning.
Remember that this DNN is an age classifier, not a predictor of continuous age
values, and that the DNN's age classes are labeled as disconnected ranges; the
next one after '25-32' is '38-43' . Thus, the model has a gap around Joseph
Howse's true age, but at least it managed to choose one of the two classes that
border this gap.
This demonstration concludes our introductory tour of ANNs and DNNs. Let's
review what we have learned and done.

--- Strana 324 ---
Using OpenCV with MediaPipe and
Tensorflow to classify gestures and
actions
In the previous sections of the chapter you have familiarized with the idea of
Artificial Neural Networks, and how they can be used in a computer vision
context, coupled with OpenCV.
This wonderful match of Computer Vision and ML/AI, coupled with the
exponential increase in computing power, enabled engineers to resolve really
difficult challenges, such as general object detection and recognition, tracking etc.
Like every other area of software engineering, at first some tasks are difficult to
accomplish, then they become run of the mill, then a plethora of libraries and
frameworks becomes available in many programming languages, often hiding the
underlying logic.
In many respects, it’s like driving a car: you don’t have to know how an engine
works to drive a car, and if all you want to do is to drive the car from point A to
point B respecting limits and rules of the road, then knowing how an engine
works will add nothing to your experience.
OpenCV is your car for computer vision tasks: you don’t necessarily need to
know how OpenCV detects shapes to be able to do so, you just need to know
OpenCV’s API.
When it comes to detecting poses, faces, hands and gestures, we have another car,
it is called MediaPipe! I could not be more relieved that a library so efficient and
so easy to use exists: I don’t know about you but I really do not like re-inventing
the wheel, I’d rather take a library and use it to achieve goals that the library
alone cannot achieve for me.
Let’s take a look at how we can use MediaPipe, OpenCV and Tensorflow to build
a ML classifier that will recognize a number of hand gestures such as an open
hand, an “OK” sign, a “peace” sign and a “thumb up” sign.

--- Strana 325 ---
What is MediaPipe
MediaPipe is a library developed by Google that makes the detection of body
poses, faces, hands, iris and lots more (to do with a human body) a trivial task. It
is highly optimized and performs really well even on commodity hardware like
normal development machines.
MediaPipe’s website is available at this address:
https://google.github.io/mediapipe/
MediaPipe does a lot more than simply detect body parts so I encourage you to
check it out and learn how to integrate it in your programs.
Installing MediaPipe is as easy as “pip install mediapipe”
TensorFlow
TensorFlow should be familiar to you as one of the available backends for
OpenCV’s DNN module. If you’re not familiar with it, and specifically with
Keras, feel free to visit https://keras.io/about/ where you can learn all about it.
Keras is a user-friendly API running on top of TensorFlow which makes the
building of deep learning models simple and easy.
Installing TensorFlow is also as easy as “pip install tensorflow”.
Hand Recognition
Hand recognition is a task made easy by MediaPipe, let’s take a look at how the
documentation shows that you can perform it using webcam input:
That’s for the entire code, but if we strip some of the boilerplate and the loop to
continuously display the processed input, there are very few lines of real
importance (aside for the necessary imports at the beginning):
These lines read the input and create the hand detector, then
We perform hand detection and lastly
We draw the landmarks.

--- Strana 326 ---
If you run the full code above, you should get an output similar to this
Hand Gesture Recognition
Now let’s take the precious information that MediaPipe generates for us and use it
to build a gesture classifier.
Here is the high-level overview of the process, which should follow a very
common pattern:
Generate labeled training data
Build a model
Train the model
Test it

--- Strana 327 ---
The two biggest challenges are the generation of data (it’s a custom gesture
recognition classifier, we presume such data does not exist at all) and creating a
deep learning model that’s accurate enough (upwards of 98%).
Generating Labeled Training Data
Let’s tackle the first challenge by creating data. I am going to offer my approach
to this but clearly you can modify it to suit your needs.
The approach I offer is as follows: start capturing video input, and for as long as
you keep pressing one number key (0 to 3), the landmark coordinates
(normalized) will be stored in a csv file with a label corresponding to the number
key you are pressing.
To increase the model accuracy, make sure to move the hand around, tilt it and
turn it, all while keeping the gesture “intact” so to speak. Even more importantly,
don’t break the gesture or you will be polluting the training dataset and
introducing noise. Lastly, make sure to be consistent with the gestures and keys,
don’t mix number keys and gestures up.
The algorithm looks like this:
So let’s take a look at the training data generation program:
Now let’s take a closer look at the more important parts.
The first crucial part is the introduction of a “number” variable that allows us to
store the class (gesture) we are capturing, so we use the familiar “waitKey”
function to do that, and since the keys 0 to 9 have code 48 to 56, we subtract “48”
to obtain the actual number key that we pressed:
I tailored the script to train only 4 classes, so I spare the program from performing
any hand detection unless we are generating training data, which means that the
number variable needs to be a value between 0 and 3, like so:
You can edit the value in the array to your use case but I would still put that
condition so to ensure you only store data when you have the correct hand
position being captured.
Now for the beefiest parts of our code. We create a module called
“landmark_utils” where we store two functions that will help us correct,

--- Strana 328 ---
normalize and store the landmarks coordinates.
This function creates an array of landmark points, and populates it by taking the
values of the landmark and ensuring that the landmark coordinate is within the
boundaries of the image.
This is one way of doing it, for even more accurate data you could potentially
discard any hand detection whose landmark points lie outside the frame.
The second function takes the landmark points (which are stored as two-element
arrays symbolizing x and y), re-calculates the x and y values as coordinates
relative to the first landmark coordinates, and then normalizes the values.
You should be very familiar with the notion of data normalization at this point,
but if you are wondering why we are doing it, it’s because a hand closer to the
camera appears bigger than one that is further away, and normalizing values
means storing values that keep proportion into consideration but ignore size.
We also squash the list into a one-dimensional array, so it can be stored in a csv
file.
The next function is the csv logging:
Nothing too special here. If the number is not in the desired range, we don’t store
anything, otherwise we simply store the flat array that we created in the previous
utility function, putting the label (the number) as the first element in the row.
When we go to train the model we will separate this first column from the rest of
the data.
Great, we are ready to give it a go! Run “python train,py”, put your hand in front
of the camera in the gesture you want to generate data for, press the key you are
going to associate to that gesture and move the hand around. Each frame in which
a key is pressed and a hand is detected will generate a row in the csv training file.
If everything worked as planned you should have a file in the folder
model/keypoint_classifier called keypoint.csv with a content similar to this:
Granted, it doesn’t look very informative, but you will notice that there are 43
fields (42 commas). Why 43? So close to the “42” of “Hitchhiker’s Guide to the

--- Strana 329 ---
Galaxy” fame (and for that reason often used as a value for random seed in
machine learning models).
No, unfortunately Adams’s novel series has nothing to do with it. The reason why
there are 43 entries is actually quite simple:
1. The first field is the label
2. MediaPipe detects 21 landmarks (4 per finger/thumb + 1 for the base of the
palm), each of which has an x value and a y value, making it 42 values.
If your generated csv looks like this, you are on a roll and you can move on to
training the model and then testing it.
Building and Training the Classifier with Jupyter Notebooks
Now let’s build our classifier. As we’ve seen for the handwritten digits, a deep
learning model will do perfectly well in this case.
We know the following:
1. Each hand is represented by 42 features
2. We are classifying 4 gestures
So the input layer will have 42 nodes, the output 4. We will put another 2 layers
in between, one with 20 and one with 10 nodes, but let’s not rush ahead and go
through the entire notebook step by step.
First we import the necessary libraries and functions:
The first one is the path to the training data, the second is the path to where the
hdf5 model will be saved and the third where the tflite model will be saved.
What is tflite? Tensorflow Lite is a framework that allows you to run deep
learning models on devices and hardware that may be constrained in terms of
performance, like mobile or the Raspberry Pi. The idea here is to train a
TensorFlow model, save it, then convert it to tflite for a smaller yet fast deep
learning model that can be deployed anywhere.
Next we set the constant NUM_CLASSES
Which specifies the number of gestures we are recognizing.

--- Strana 330 ---
Now we load the training data. Note that in the “usecols” option of “loadtxt” we
skip the first column (which would have index 0), because the first column is the
labels.
Then we operate the classic X, y / train,test split so the model can test accuracy
on part of the data that has not been used for training.
The Deep Learning model
Here’s our Keras model:
Nothing too exotic here: we have a Dense input layer with 42 nodes, and we
gradually reduce the hidden layers (20 and 10) interspersed with Dropout layers
to help reduce overfitting.
Next, we set up checkpoints and early stopping:
Once the model has finished training (which - depending on the size of the
training data you accumulated - might take some time), we evaluate its accuracy:
The we save the model:
The notebook code also contains a cell for the display of a confusion matrix if
you are interested in it, but that’s not particularly relevant here.
Finally, we convert the model to tflite:
And that’s it, your model is ready for testing.
Testing the model on camera input
All that’s left to do now is to capture some video input, create a classifier that
uses the model we just saved and do real-time predictions on any hand detected
by MediaPipe.
For this we need, first of all, to create a classifier python object. We do this in the
model/keypoint_classifier folder, in a file called keypoint_classifier.py, and here
is the code for it:
Although some of the lines in this code may look a bit obscure, it really does not
do much other than loading the model file and specifying how to invoke the

--- Strana 331 ---
prediction.
If you are unsure, please consult the documentation for the TFLite interpreter at
https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/lite/Interpreter
Of particular note are the constructor (which specifies which file to use to load
the model), the “allocate_tensors()” call which is required for execution, the
“set_tensor” call which loads the features for prediction, the “invoke” call which
performs the prediction and the “get_tensor” call which retrieves the result of the
last prediction.
Now that we have a classifier, we only need to include it into our normally video
capture loop, which I have done like so:
In the first line we create a classifier, then we create a dictionary of gestures for
display purposes.
After that, all we do is to detect hands, flatten the landmarks into a one-
dimensional 42-size array and pass it into our classifier, and use the detected class
index to print the gesture’s name in the top left corner of the screen.
If all goes well, you will have very satisfactory results like so:

--- Strana 332 ---

--- Strana 333 ---
Summary
This chapter scratched the surface of the vast and fascinating world of
ANNs. We learned about the structure of ANNs, and how to design a
network topology based on application requirements. Then, we focused on
OpenCV's implementation of MLP ANNs, as well as on OpenCV's support
for diverse DNNs that have been trained in other frameworks.
We applied neural networks to real-world problems: notably, handwritten
digit recognition; object detection and classification; and a combination of
face detection, age classification, and gender classification in real time. We
saw that even in these introductory demos, neural networks show a lot of
promise in terms of versatility, accuracy, and speed. Hopefully, this
encourages you to try out pre-trained models from various authors, and to
learn to train advanced models of your own in various frameworks. Finally,
we have learned how to use MediaPipe for hand detection and trained a
classifier with TensorFlow, and utilized OpenCV for video capture and
image manipulation.
I hope you enjoyed it and that you have learned useful techniques that you
can apply in real-life scenarios or your personal projects!

--- Strana 334 ---
Join our book community on
Discord
https://discord.gg/djGjeMECxw
In this chapter we will take OpenCV to the cloud, by exploring technologies
and methodologies that will allow you to package your application and
deploy it on AWS so it can be made available to the public even at large
scale, without having to learn lengthy and complex technologies to maintain
such applications.
We will provide a brief introduction to containers and containerization tools
like Docker, an overview of the AWS cloud provider and AWS Lambda,
and finally we will demonstrate how to develop a simple application and
deploy it.
NOTE: even if you don’t want to use AWS, the knowledge you will acquire
about containerization should seamlessly transfer to other cloud providers
or cloud-agnostic solutions such as Kubernetes (which can be deployed on
any cloud).
IMPORTANT NOTE: to follow the examples in this chapter you will need
an AWS account. While you have to provide credit card credentials, if you
follow the examples in this chapter you will only incur in charges when you

--- Strana 335 ---
exceed free-tier quotas, something you would normally only do if you are
working with revenue-generating levels of loads.

--- Strana 336 ---
What are Containers?
We mentioned containers and Docker. Let’s see what they are and why they
are so important in our day and age.
First of all, containers are a form of virtualization, that is, making a single
physical machine run on or more “machines”, which are called virtual.
But while Virtual Machines (or VMs) are an abstraction of the hardware
layer and simulate the entire operating system, in fact VM images are huge,
in the order of GBs.
Containers however, are an abstraction at the application layer, and
container images can be as small as tens of MBs, and they package code
and dependencies into a single image that can be deployed in several ways.
The most popular technology for container deployment and orchestration is
Kubernetes, and in AWS you can do this with a Kubernetes equivalent
(Elastic Kubernetes Service or EKS), or three separate tools called ECS
(Elastic Container Service), Fargate and AWS Lambda.
We will limit ourselves to the simplest and easiest (from a management
point of view) of these tools: AWS Lambda, but all in good time.
Traditional VMs can be very slow to boot, and because they are so
cumbersome, not very agile to work with. It is no wonder they are only in
use in specific use cases (and mainly to do with security), but other than
niche use cases, they have been supplanted by containers.
The main advantage of containers from a software development cycle point
of view is portability.
This means that you can develop an application, package it into a container
for local testing and use in your local development environment and then
deploy as it is, and it will work because the abstraction is operated by the
Docker Engine, not the underlying OS.

--- Strana 337 ---
It is quite literally that simple. Some say containers resolved the age old
rebuttal
“it works on my machine”
developers often blurt when things don’t seem to work as expected. If a
container works on your machine and not in a production environment there
are a few and very precise reasons for it and it will not be due to complex
and annoying dependency issues. Which is where the “12factor app”
deserves a brief mention.
The Twelve-Factor App
There is a website called https://12factor.net/ that illustrates a simple
methodology that is perfectly suited to the delivery of an application as a
web app or as a “Software as a Service (SaaS)”.
If you are reading this chapter (and not happily skipping) then you either
want to deploy your OpenCV app in the cloud or you intend to acquire the
knowledge to do so, therefore you might as well learn a tried-and-tested
methodology that will greatly simplify your life especially when it comes to
preventing problems from happening at all, and then resolving them in the
easiest and quickest way possible.
Let’s take a quick look at the factors as they are illustrated on the website
and see how they fit in our container-based work.
1. Codebase
One codebase tracked in revision control, many deploys
1. Dependencies
Explicitly declare and isolate dependencies
1. Config
Store config in the environment

--- Strana 338 ---
1. Backing services
Treat backing services as attached resources
1. Build, release, run
Strictly separate build and run stages
1. Processes
Execute the app as one or more stateless processes
1. Port binding
Export services via port binding
1. Concurrency
Scale out via the process model
1. Disposability
Maximize robustness with fast startup and graceful shutdown
1. Dev/prod parity
Keep development, staging, and production as similar as possible
1. Logs
Treat logs as event streams
1. Admin processes
Run admin/management tasks as one-off processes
Let’s focus on a few that stand out as particularly relevant, or that
containers help making easier:

--- Strana 339 ---
1. Dependencies: you package the dependencies of your code in your
container, and you have to declare such dependencies in your container
build file (called a Dockerfile) so they are downloaded and installed
before your code can be built in the container itself. This achieves total
isolation and explicit declaration.
2. Config: you declare configuration parameters in container-based
development in environment variables. Things like database string
connections, stage, names of resources etc. are all declared as
environment variables.
3. Disposability: containers are so light they are destroyed and recreated
rather than moved.
4. Dev/prod parity: the fact that your container image deployed locally
for testing only differs from the production image only by the
environment variables injected into it means you have complete
dev/prod parity which is incredibly important.

--- Strana 340 ---
Docker Basics
We talked enough about containers and Docker, let’s move onto an example so
the whole idea becomes clearer for those unfamiliar with containerization
technologies.
NOTE: Our overview of Docker will be minimal because it is far removed from
the scope of this tutorial, which is not to teach you docker but to teach how to
deploy OpenCV applications to scale. We will explore basic concepts and refer
you to the Docker documentation available at https://docs.docker.com/ for
anything else you need to know.
First let’s see how to install the Docker engine. The official page on the docker
website where you can obtain downloads is at
https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/
Docker engine used to be a CLI-only tool that lacked a bit in user friendliness.
Nowadays what you download from Docker is a tool called Docker-Desktop
which also includes the CLI client that Docker old-timers and CLI aficionados are
used to (and probably prefer to use).
Throughout the chapter we will use the CLI, not just because I’m used to it, but
because the overwhelming majority of support material including documentation
and StackOverflow questions will be using the CLI, so it’s simply the right thing
to do. When all is said and done, the CLI is the more difficult tool to learn and the
GUI the intuitive, easy one, so if we learn the difficult parts I’m sure you will be
flying with the easy ones.
Docker Version
So go ahead and install docker-desktop, you should then be able to verify your
docker client is installed from a terminal window:
Docker Run
Docker run allows you to launch a container. If you have never done so, try the
obligatory “hello-world”:

--- Strana 341 ---
This will test that the installation is working correctly and will produce the
following output
The output itself describes step by step what the command did, which in short
meant contacting the local daemon, failing to find the “image” called hello-world,
therefore downloading it from Docker Hub (a publicly available repository of
container images), then creating the container and running it, and printing the
output to your terminal.
Clearly the container itself does not do much, but it was enough to showcase the
workflow adopted by the docker client.
So the first subcommand we learned is “run”, which is what we use to launch a
container. If you “run” a container it will immediately execute a command that
you specified in the build file for the container (Dockerfile), which we will
explore soon enough.
Docker Pull
Next up, we want to actually do something with containers, so we want to
download an image that will allow you to write and execute a Python program,
which is a prerequisite of any Python OpenCV application.
To do so, try the following:
Which will produce an output similar to the following:
This is deceptively important to understand: containers leverage “file system
layers” which allows caching of parts of the image so when you apply changes to
it (and go to upload the image to a remote repository) you don’t have to re-upload
the entire image but only the parts that changed. If the standard image has
something like 9 layers, a simple code change (and no dependency changes) may

--- Strana 342 ---
involve only 1 or 2 layer updates, making your data transfer lighter and faster,
and future downloads quicker too.
This python:3.9 image that you downloaded does not do anything, but you can
launch it as a service and then log into it, much like “SSH’ing” into a remote
machine, but this time without the hassle of authentication since it’s running on
your development machine. We are going to see how to do that but before we can
do this, we need to learn about Dockerfile.
Dockerfile
Dockerfile is the docker equivalent of a Makefile, and it is probably not a
coincidence they sound so similar.
It is a build file that specifies:
1. FROM what base image will your container be derived
2. What files to COPY or volumes to mount on your image
3. What preliminary operations to RUN, such as downloading dependencies
and building an artifact
4. What network ports to EXPOSE
5. What command (CMD) to run once everything is ready
Notice where I put the words in capital letters. That’s not a coincidence: I used
Dockerfiles directives to explain the steps involved in creating a container image,
and they follow a precise order. There are a lot more directives in Dockerfile but
these will get us going.
Now let’s create an extremely simple “hello world”-type Python application and
then containerize it by writing a Dockerfile and then using Docker “build”.
Let’s write a main.py file with the following code:
If you run it on your machine it should output something like
(OpenCV version may vary of course depending on your installation).
Now, if we run the base image “python3:9” in docker, but with the option to make
the container interactive and allocate a terminal, we will notice that we are sent
straight into the python shell:

--- Strana 343 ---
That “-it” is a double flag, where “i” stands for “--interactive” and “t” for
“AllocateTTY”, in other words it allows you to interact with the container
through a terminal.
If you then run, in another terminal window, the following command:
You will notice that the container’s “COMMAND” is “python3”, which adds up
to the behavior we just witnessed where launching the container and interacting
with it brought us into the python shell.
So what we want to do now is replace the “python3” command with the execution
of our little script.
To do so we need to perform a few operations:
1. Create a requirements.txt file for our script
2. Write a Dockerfile that tells Docker to build a container image which
contains a copy of main.py and requirements.txt and installs the
dependencies in requirements.txt
3. Instruct the Dockerfile to run “python3 main.py” rather than just “python3”
4. Build the image and run it to test it works
NOTE: you need to create the requirements.txt file. I normally use a handy tool
called pipreqs, you can use pip freeze or any other tool that allows you to create a
requirements.txt file which is necessary to install dependencies in the container.
Let’s jump straight into Dockerfile to check how it matches with the above
description of the Dockerfile directives and the order of steps to be taken during
the image build process.
The above Dockerfile substantially says “create a container image that contains
the main.py and requirements.txt files from the current directory, run pip install
and then run the program main.py”.
To actually build the container we use docker build. The minimal version of
docker build is extremely simple and you only need to specify two elements
1. The tag of the container (basically its name, for future reference)
2. The path to the Dockerfile (normally “.” to represent the current directory)
Let’s go ahead and do that

--- Strana 344 ---
As you can see I called the container “opencv4.6-python3.9:latest”.
Now we can run it with docker run:
That’s terrible, we have a missing dependency. Not to worry this is all very much
calculated to give you a complete perspective of the Docker workflow. In reality,
when installing OpenCV through pip, there are a lot of dependencies already
satisfied by your local operating system. This does not happen in a container and
all dependencies need to be installed from scratch. So we’d have to resort to the
lengthy version of installing OpenCV, as if you just opened your laptop for the
first time and wanted to get going with OpenCV.
Fortunately, the Docker community is wide and resourceful, and some kind and
generous individuals have already done this work for you. In my case I used the
Dockerfile at https://github.com/janza/docker-python3-
opencv/blob/master/Dockerfile
I downloaded it on my machine in a separate location then ran
To ensure you are able to download this image I also created an updated version
of it, which you can pull with the docker client using:
This will ensure that if the original maintainer removes it, you will still be able to
find it under my account.
The above docker build allowed me to create a local image with the name
specified after the -t flag. And this is where we use some Docker magic. In our
original Dockerfile (the one that failed to build our app) we can now replace the
base python3:9 image with our shiny new OpenCV one
Now, when we go to run our previously failing command, we get a successful
output:
Docker Summary
Now that we possess the basics for developing with OpenCV, we can go to create
an application that will leverage container technology and deploy it with some
simple steps.

--- Strana 345 ---
AWS Serverless (Fargate, Lambda)
and AWS SAM
As mentioned, the reason why we are focusing on Lambda functions is their
serverless nature.
Serverless clearly does not mean “without servers”, more “without the need of
provisioning and managing servers”. Which, if you ask me, is a great selling point
for all computer vision developers out there who want to put their code to
production in a web context without having to learn more than simple basics of
web development (really, just how to handle a web request).
This idea of developing applications without having to provision the underlying
ressources isn’t new, but the flexibility and stability provided by containers
pushes this aspect of development and deployment into another level.
Moreover, even in existing products that encapsulate your application in an
environment which makes deployment easy, scalability remains an issue.
AWS Fargate and AWS Lambda instead are resolving exactly this problem. They
will take care of scalability for you, and if you reach a global scale you can easily
configure your lambda deployment to be geographically distributed for faster
response time to your users.
Let’s take a look at these technologies individually and understand why they are a
big deal.
AWS Lambda
Think about a small OpenCV application, such as one that detects the coordinates
of faces in a picture. This is a few lines of code in python, along these lines:
This is so simple it doesn’t even draw the rectangles around the faces like we’ve
been doing in the whole book, it simply gives the x and y coordinates of the top
left corner of the face, its width and its height.

--- Strana 346 ---
If you were to deploy this as a web application, you would need to provision
servers, configure them, provision and configure ancillary services such as web
servers, load balancers etc that’s before we talk about the boilerplate code
necessary to finally be able to wrap your 6 lines of code into an endpoint that can
return such simple information.
This is precisely what Lambda resolves. Lambda takes its name from Lambda
functions, inline functions that take an input and produce an output, because AWS
wants you to think about your code exactly like that: a self-contained, isolated,
piece of code that can be deployed as is and executed on demand.
You, as a computer vision engineer, need only focus on the part you love (the
computer vision coding) and AWS will take care of the rest.
To learn how to deploy a simple piece of code in a Lambda, let’s take a look at
Serverless Application Model (SAM).
AWS SAM
If Lambda resolves the problem of being free of provisioning and configuring
servers to deploy your applications, SAM makes it a piece of cake.
Although a complex and complete tool capable of provisioning the most complex
of architectures and related infrastructure, SAM is particularly useful when you
want to create applications from templates, and AWS generously provides you
with ready-made configurations that cover the most common use cases from a
single, stand-alone Lambda, to a REST API, to a Machine Learning inference
application.
To install AWS SAM, we need to install two tools: the aws-cli (your swiss-army
knife for all things AWS) and sam-cli. Both are very straightforward to install,
and only require minimal configuration.
The documentation for the installation of these tools on the various operating
systems is available at the following addresses:
AWS CLI:
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html
AWS SAM:

--- Strana 347 ---
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-
model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-install.html
Both links contain specific installations for Windows, Linux and Mac OS.
The last step before you are good to use either tool is to configure it with your
account credentials. There are two different files that can be used to configure
your command line tools, the .config file and the .credentials file.
In the .config file we store configuration preferences such as the region where
you are going to operate and the output format of the commands. In the
.credentials file we store actual credentials needed to connect to your AWS
account and perform operations on it.
The full guide on configuration is here: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-
application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-getting-started-set-up-
credentials.html
Bear in mind that a region, an access key and a secret key are all that is really
needed to start working, the rest is entirely optional and down to preference.
If everything works as expected, you will have AWS SAM installed on your
machine.
So what can SAM do for us? First of all, SAM interactively guides you through
the creation of a project, by asking questions that have a multiple choice answer.
AWS were feeling really helpful when they created SAM because if you just
accepted all default options it all just works.
However in our case we are deploying OpenCV python applications so this blind
acceptance of default options won’t work, but not to worry, it is still pretty
simple.
The second thing SAM takes care of is the deployment of our application. Again,
if you just accepted all default choices it would work like a charm (I know, I have
done it multiple times!). All you need to do is answer interactive questions about
your deployment preferences.
So let’s go ahead and create a simple Python project and later evolve it into a face
detection application.

--- Strana 348 ---
First of, initialize the application:
Here we told sam-cli to choose between one of the ready-made templates. We are
new to SAM so we most definitely do not have custom templates of our own.
SAM proceeds to download these templates’ definitions:
Once again we choose the first option because we want to start from scratch and
are completely unfamiliar with Serverless. The Hello World example creates a
SAM application for a single Lambda function that will perform some kind of
work for us.
Use the most popular runtime and package type? (Nodejs and zip) [y/N]: N
Now we are asked about the runtime to use: we reject using the defaults (because
it’s Node.js packaged as a Zip) and instead choose python3.9 for our runtime…
And “Image” for the package type. Image means we are going to use a container
image, so yes, we are going to put our newfound Docker knowledge to good use.
SAM subsequently creates the skeleton of the application which we are going to
use as a basis for our further OpenCV work.
Let’s move over to the newly created sam-opencv folder and start working from
there.
The structure of the project is as follows:
├── events
│ └── event.json
├── hello_world
│ ├── app.py
│ ├── Dockerfile
│ ├── __init__.py
│ └── requirements.txt

--- Strana 349 ---
├── __init__.py
├── README.md
├── template.yaml
└── tests
├── __init__.py
└── unit
├── __init__.py
└── test_handler.py
4 directories, 11 files
Let’s go through it. The main file that defines the resources in the project is
template.yaml, which is a CloudFormation template.
For those unfamiliar, CloudFormation is an infrastructure management tool that
allows you to declare resources in code (Infrastructure as Code), and to deploy,
update and destroy infrastructure from the command line.
The sam-cli will take care of all of that.
The second main element of interest is the hello-world folder, which contains the
code resources for the Lambda function. For simplicity, we will leave the function
name as HelloWorld, but clearly in production scenarios you may want to rename
this to more meaningful identifiers such as FaceDetectionFunction, for example.
Within the hello-world folder, we have 4 files:
1. app.py containing the actual code
2. Dockerfile which will be needed for the container image for the Lambda
3. The __init__.py is only there to make sure the current folder is treated as a
module
4. The requirements.txt file is there because the Dockerfile will run pip install
during the build phase
So let’s take a look at the app.py script:

--- Strana 350 ---
It does not do much but it reveals important information about how to structure
our code. Global imports at the top of the file, a main function called
“lambda_handler” which will perform the actual work, and since the hello-world
function is a simple web request, we see that we can just return a dictionary.
With this information in mind, we move to rewrite our code to do something
extremely simple but that proves we have OpenCV correctly installed and
running in the cloud in a Lambda function.
Great, at this point we only want to focus on learning how to take this simple
code and deploy it, nothing more.
Once this part works, adding complexity to the code will not affect the deploy
process in any way.
Before moving onto building the Dockerfile, we need to create the requirements
file. As I mentioned, there are a variety of ways (not least typing one manually
but I would not advise to do so). I use pipreqs, you can use pip freeze or whatever
tool you prefer for the task.
With the requirements.txt file created and stored in the same folder as the
Dockerfile, we can go to edit the Dockerfile itself to make sure we leverage the
above opencv-python container image.
There are two steps we need to take to be in a position to deploy our micro
application:
1. Specify the files to be copied into the container image
2. Add the Lambda Runtime Interface Client (RIC) to our container which is
needed for containers to run in Lambda functions.
NOTE: The Lambda RIC is only required for Lambda containers. Fargate
containers don’t need it.
The default Dockerfile does pretty much what you would expect:
Note the “app.lambda_handler” command. This means that the Lambda
function’s handler is contained in the “app.py” (the “app” part) and in the
“lambda_handler” function of that script (the “lambda_handler” part).

--- Strana 351 ---
We’re going to vastly discard this Dockerfile as it does not do all we need it to do.
The installation of the RIC isn’t complex but requires that we modify the
Dockerfile and also that we save a shell script that slightly modifies the container
to enable the execution of the Lambda handler.
So in order, save the following small shell script into the hello-world folder as
entry.sh
Then let’s modify the Dockerfile with the following:
RUN apt-get update && \
apt-get install -y \
g++ \
make \
cmake \
unzip \
libcurl4-openssl-dev
RUN pip install \
--target ${FUNCTION_DIR} \
awslambdaric
The above may seem a little confusing but if you break it down, it does only a
couple of things more than a standard SAM-generated Dockerfile:
1. It installs some dependencies needed to retrieve and install the package
awslambdaric (the aforementioned Lambda RIC)
2. It copies the entry.sh file we created and uses it as an entrypoint to the
container. This is to enable the Runtime Interface Emulator so you can test
your container locally.
You may have noticed a strange “multi-stage build” going on: this is only an
optimization trick to keep the size of the image down, you can explore
documentation about multi-stage builds here:

--- Strana 352 ---
https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/multistage-build/ . For now it
should suffice to say that the above file takes the content of our hello-world
folder, copies into the container, adds the RIC and builds the final image.
So to build the Lambda (which is a required step before we can deploy it) we run:
Let’s examine some of the output (I purposely omitted some as it was
unnecessarily verbose):
Up to this point the build process is simply collecting Docker metadata from the
template file and using the Dockerfile to start building the container image. At
this point the package management will try to download the dependencies we are
attempting to install:
Now that dependencies are installed, we can move onto copying the content:
The Lambda RIC is installed, we move on to the second step of the multi-stage
build:
The entry.sh file is copied into the new container
And then used as an entrypoint:
Great, the container image is built, now we have to deploy it, and SAM is so kind
as to actually show us the command for the purpose:
Let’s stop for a second though. We don’t want to go through the hassle of
deployment, which takes a little time, without verifying that things are working
properly.
You may have noted that SAM suggests you use “sam local invoke”, which is a
command that allows us to test the lambda locally. Naturally if our Lambda was
connecting to resources it would be a little trickier to test but our code does not
rely on external resources so it should work.
Let’s run the local invoke:
Perfect! Our Lambda returned a message which correctly detects the version of
OpenCV installed on the container.
We are now ready to deploy the function, and as mentioned earlier, we will make
SAM do all the hard work, by selecting the “--guided” option:

--- Strana 353 ---
As you can see it’s just a series of questions regarding deployment preferences
and options. You do have to answer “y” to the question on the lack of
authorization. Without it (meaning “no, you are not ok with the Lambda not
having an authorization defined”), the deployment process will be halted.
I highly recommend you let SAM create all IAM Roles to execute the Lambda
and the ECR repository needed to store your container images, unless you know
what you are doing.
Once the resources are created, SAM will start “pushing” your container image
into the ECR repository (it’s just AWS’s equivalent of Docker Hub), and when
that’s completed it will deploy the container into a Lambda function. At that point
we are able to test our mini-application in production.
When SAM is done deploying you will have a list of the changes that were
applied to your AWS account:
Now we want to test that the Lambda is still working correctly, even in
production. You can do this in 2 ways: you can either hit the endpoint listed in the
output of the deploy operation (that long URL in the first of the three output
groups in the image), or you can go to your AWS web console, navigate to
“Lambda”, select your newly deployed function and click on “Test”. You need to
create a test event (you can just hit save on the default “hello-world” event), and
then click test. The output will be exactly like the one you had locally:
Note that the “slrnph6l6j” part of the URL will be different for you as this is
uniquely generated at deployment time.
Great, you now know how to create a container image that has all the necessary
dependencies to run an OpenCV application on it. We will soon move to running

--- Strana 354 ---
a slightly more complex example.
Is this really necessary?
You may be wondering if this trip down container lane is really necessary. Are we
complicating our lives unnecessarily, and adding moving parts to an already
complex landscape?
The answer is yes, it is necessary. Or to better quantify, it is necessary, but it’s
also good.
It’s necessary because the Zip deployment method (so working without container
images) only prevents you (the developer ) from dealing with containers, but the
underlying Lambda function will simply be a container image with your code
baked into it; if you do that, the base image used by Lambda will be a base
python image, which will not contain OpenCV, and as you have seen, you cannot
simply install the OpenCV python library for it to work, you need the actual
underlying libraries to be present. So your only choice is to use custom-built
containers.
The second part of the answer is that I wholeheartedly encourage you to develop
using containers, they are fun, you can learn a lot about computers and above all,
they make your development lifecycle extremely reliable. Containers made
deploying OpenCV applications very feasible, and now you can leverage very
powerful computing resources (those made available by AWS) to run your
compute intensive CV-applications. The uses you can do at an absolutely
unfathomable scale of containers running OpenCV applications are simply
limitless. Think real time object detection on streaming, or face recognition, or
cataloging image metadata on GBs of incoming images.
So yes, it’s necessary, and it’s good for you.
In fact, let's see how we can use Lambda to analyze images and return
coordinates for detected faces.
Example Application: Face Detection
Let’s now extend our fairly useless mini-application into a function that does
something. Let’s take a run-of-the-mill task such as detecting faces in an image.

--- Strana 355 ---
A short premise before proceeding: it’s important that you understand that this is
a web endpoint, so while you would normally draw rectangles on an image, in
this case you want to just return the coordinates of the faces, so whatever client
application calls your endpoint will use that information (and potentially draw
rectangles on an image in the client).
As for the input image, we are not going to pass this as an actual image, but as a
URL. So then the Lambda function will download the image at the provided
URL, perform face detection and return the coordinates.
So let’s take a look at the code:
A few points of note:
1. We need the “requests” package to operate the URL download
2. We need to include the cascade XML file and copy into the container
3. The URL is accessed through the “url” property of the
“queryStringParameters” property of the event object. In practical terms, the
URL will be passed into the function with the format ?url=<url of the
image>
4. Lambda functions allow you to write data to the /tmp folder for a maximum
of 500MB, and that’s why we are using that particular location as the
download location of the input image.
So let’s start from the beginning and include the XML cascade file which we have
used multiple times in this book so you should simply place a copy of it in the
hello-world folder.
After that, let’s refresh the requirements.txt file by re-running pipreqs or pip
freeze so the “requests” package is included.
So the new Dockerfile really only has one edit:
And now we can re-run “sam build –use-container” to rebuild the image.
Now we can test the application. Again we can either deploy and test, or - as it is
advisable - first run a local test.
This time however, we can’t just run “sam local invoke” and hope it works,
because the function expects a URL for the input image. So we need to create an
event that conforms to the expected input. You can read how to create events at

--- Strana 356 ---
this address: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-
model/latest/developerguide/sam-cli-command-reference-sam-local-generate-
event.html
However, to simplify your life I created an event for you and saved it into the
project’s repository at events/awsproxy.json
The notable part of the event’s JSON is this block:
You can replace the actual url with whatever image from the internet containing
faces you prefer.
Now we can run “sam local invoke -e events/awsproxy.json” which specifies the
event to use as an input.
Let’s take a look at the output:
A successful run! Now we just need to deploy the function. If you remember, the
first time you ran the guided deployment, SAM saved a deployment configuration
in the file “samconfig.toml”.
Now we can run a deployment with the same parameters by simply specifying a
configuration file, and avoid re-answering the interactive questions:
This will update the Lambda which you can reach at the same url we tested
above, but this time we need to remember to add the url query string parameter to
obtain the identical output as the local test.
A Note on AWS Fargate
What you have learned so far in this chapter is entirely transferable to AWS
Fargate, in fact, the process is simpler in that you don’t need to install the Lambda
RIC to turn your standard container image into a runnable workload on the cloud.
The reason why we concentrated on Lambda is that Lambdas are far the most
suitable tool to perform small and specific jobs, since Lambdas have a maximum
execution time of 15 minutes. Fargate can launch long-running jobs and is more
suited to large and complex workloads such as batch jobs. So if you are
processing one image at a time (or a small number), Lambda is the way to go. If
you are tackling processing of GBs of image or video data then Fargate is more
suited.

--- Strana 357 ---
The tool to deploy jobs on AWS Fargate is called AWS Copilot and it is
extremely user friendly and easy to operate. You can read about it at this address:
https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/containers/introducing-aws-copilot/ and have fun
deploying containers.

--- Strana 358 ---
Conclusion
In this chapter we familiarized with the idea of containers and created
OpenCV containers that can be deployed on the cloud, then we learned
about AWS Lambda which enables the deployment of OpenCV applications
that can be automatically scaled, and finally we showed how to develop a
face detection web service that returns face location information about an
input image.
You are now ready to take your OpenCV knowledge and build massively
scalable applications with it!
