
--- Strana 1 ---

--- Strana 2 ---
Learn AI with
Python
Explore Machine Learning and Deep Learning
Techniques for Building Smart AI Systems Using
Scikit-Learn, NLTK, NeuroLab, and Keras
Gaurav Leekha
www.bpbonline.com

--- Strana 3 ---
FIRST EDITION 2022
Copyright © BPB Publications, India
ISBN: 978-93-91392-611
All Rights Reserved. No part of this publication may be
reproduced, distributed or transmitted in any form or by any
means or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the
prior written permission of the publisher with the exception to the
program listings which may be entered, stored and executed in a
computer system, but they can not be reproduced by the means
of publication, photocopy, recording, or by any electronic and
mechanical means.
LIMITS OF LIABILITY AND DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY
The information contained in this book is true to correct and the
best of author’s and publisher’s knowledge. The author has made
every eﬀort to ensure the accuracy of these publications, but
publisher cannot be held responsible for any loss or damage
arising from any information in this book.
All trademarks referred to in the book are acknowledged as
properties of their respective owners but BPB Publications cannot
guarantee the accuracy of this information.

--- Strana 4 ---
www.bpbonline.com

--- Strana 5 ---
Dedicated to
Aarav Leekha
My son, the beat of my heart, and the energy of my soul.

--- Strana 6 ---
About the Author
Gaurav Leekha is a Deep Learning researcher. He has 7 years of
academic experience of teaching technical courses along with 5+
years of technical content creation as a freelancer on variety of
topics related to Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Artiﬁcial
Intelligence, and Web Development Technologies.
He has authored a few research papers published in renowned
journals. He is also the reviewer of prominent journals and has
been the technical reviewer for various online courses. He has
also earned multiple certiﬁcations in the ﬁeld of machine learning
and deep learning.
Outside work, Gaurav likes to cook food for his family, play with
his eight-year-old son and practice vipassana meditation.

--- Strana 7 ---
About the Reviewer
Bharat Sikka is the author of the book “Elements of Deep
Learning for Computer Vision” and a Data Scientist based in
Mumbai, India. Over the years, he has worked on implementing
algorithms in Artiﬁcial Intelligence in domains like Financial Risk,
Fraud, and Governance, Computer Vision among others and is
currently working as a Data Scientist at State Bank of India.
He also has a thorough knowledge and understanding of various
programming languages such as Python, R, MATLAB and Octave
for Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Data Visualization and
Analysis in Python, R and through Power BI, Tableau.
Bharat holds a MS in Data Science and Analytics from Royal
Holloway, University of London and BTech in Information
Technology from Symbiosis International University and has earned
multiple certiﬁcations including MOOCs on varied ﬁelds including
machine learning.
He is a science ﬁction fanatic, loves travelling and a great cook.

--- Strana 8 ---
Acknowledgement
First, I would like to express my gratitude to God whose blessings
inspired me to write this book. I strongly believe in sharing my
knowledge and helping others to succeed.
This book wouldn’t have happened if I hadn’t had the support of
my caring parents, my loving wife, and my genius son. I will take
this opportunity to thank them for their continued support. My
sincere thanks to my elder brother and sister for encouraging and
believing in me always.
Words are not enough to express my gratitude to Dr. Rajesh
Kumar Aggarwal, Professor, Department of Computer Engineering,
NIT-Kurukshetra, for his continued guidance and insightful
comments. Along with that, accept my heartful gratitude for your
time and support to motivate me and other people towards the
path of spirituality and humanity.
Finally, I would also thank my friends who trust my abilities and
knowledge to write this book.

--- Strana 9 ---
Preface
Artiﬁcial Intelligence has existed for a long time and proven to be
a disruptive force in the modern world where everything is driven
by data and automation. From newspapers to TV channels, the
hype around AI these days is ubiquitous and due to a huge
improvement in the ﬁeld of AI, it along with its subﬁelds-Machine
Learning and Deep Learning-has become a buzzword in recent
years.
AI is used extensively across many ﬁelds, such as robotics, object
detection, image recognition, speech recognition, self-driving
vehicles, humanoid robots, recommender system, chatbots, Virtual
personal assistants, and so on. The primary goal of this book is
to let you explore some real-world scenarios and understand where
and which algorithms to use in each context. This exciting recipe-
based book also contain functional codes written in Python.
Over the 10 chapters in this book, you will learn the following:
Chapter 1 covers the basics of Artiﬁcial Intelligence and explains
all the important terms and deﬁnitions. It also explains various
ﬁelds of study in AI and applications of AI in various industries.
It will assist you in installing the Python programming language
on diﬀerent platforms.
Chapter 2 covers the basics of Machine Learning and its diﬀerent
learning styles. It also introduces you to the most popular

--- Strana 10 ---
machine learning algorithms and their implementation using
Python.
Chapter 3 deals with supervised machine learning tasks namely
Classiﬁcation and Regression. It covers various steps to build a
classiﬁer and regressor using Python. It also discusses various
performance metrics used to evaluate classiﬁcation and regression
models.
Chapter 4 deals with unsupervised machine learning tasks namely
Clustering. It covers some important ML clustering algorithms and
their implementation using Python. It also discusses various
metrics used to evaluate the performance of clustering algorithms.
Chapter 5 covers logic programming with some implementation
examples useful for solving problems in the real-life domain.
Chapter 6 discusses, in-depth, what is Natural Language
Processing (NLP) and how to implement it in Python. It
introduces you to Python’s Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK). It
then shows how you can implement various important concepts of
NLP using NLTK.
Chapter 7 describes the working of an automatic speech
recognition (ASR) system. It also covers various steps to build a
classiﬁer and regressor using Python.
Chapter 8 discusses Artiﬁcial Neural Network (ANN) in detail. It
then covers building some useful neural networks such as Single

--- Strana 11 ---
layer neural networks, Multilayer neural networks, etc., in Python.
Chapter 9 is a key chapter that discusses, in detail, reinforcement
learning and its building blocks namely agent and environment. It
describes how to construct an environment and agent using the
Python programming language.
Chapter 10 is another key chapter, covering the basics of deep
learning and convolutional neural networks (CNNs). It then
explains the evolution of CNN and how it provides complicated
object detection in images. It also explains how to build an image
classiﬁer using CNN in Python.

--- Strana 12 ---
Downloading the code bundle
and coloured images:
Please follow the link to download the
Code Bundle and the Coloured Images of the book:
https://rebrand.ly/9c16d0
Errata
We take immense pride in our work at BPB Publications and
follow best practices to ensure the accuracy of our content to
provide with an indulging reading experience to our subscribers.
Our readers are our mirrors, and we use their inputs to reﬂect
and improve upon human errors, if any, that may have occurred
during the publishing processes involved. To let us maintain the
quality and help us reach out to any readers who might be
having diﬃculties due to any unforeseen errors, please write to us
at :
errata@bpbonline.com
Your support, suggestions and feedbacks are highly appreciated by
the BPB Publications’ Family.

--- Strana 13 ---
Did you know that BPB oﬀers eBook versions of every book
published, with PDF and ePub ﬁles available? You can upgrade to
the eBook version at www.bpbonline.com and as a print book
customer, you are entitled to a discount on the eBook copy. Get
in touch with us at business@bpbonline.com for more details.
At you can also read a collection of free technical articles, sign up
for a range of free newsletters, and receive exclusive discounts
and oﬀers on BPB books and eBooks.

--- Strana 14 ---
BPB is searching for authors like you
If you're interested in becoming an author for BPB, please visit
www.bpbonline.com and apply today. We have worked with
thousands of developers and tech professionals, just like you, to
help them share their insight with the global tech community. You
can make a general application, apply for a speciﬁc hot topic that
we are recruiting an author for, or submit your own idea.
The code bundle for the book is also hosted on GitHub at In
case there's an update to the code, it will be updated on the
existing GitHub repository.
We also have other code bundles from our rich catalog of books
and videos available at Check them out!
PIRACY
If you come across any illegal copies of our works in any form
on the internet, we would be grateful if you would provide us
with the location address or website name. Please contact us at
business@bpbonline.com with a link to the material.
If you are interested in becoming an author

--- Strana 15 ---
If there is a topic that you have expertise in, and you are
interested in either writing or contributing to a book, please visit
REVIEWS
Please leave a review. Once you have read and used this book,
why not leave a review on the site that you purchased it from?
Potential readers can then see and use your unbiased opinion to
make purchase decisions, we at BPB can understand what you
think about our products, and our authors can see your feedback
on their book. Thank you!
For more information about BPB, please visit

--- Strana 16 ---
Table of Contents
1. Introduction to AI and Python
Introduction
Structure
Objectives
Introduction to Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI)
Why to learn AI?
Understanding intelligence
Types of intelligence
Various ﬁelds of study in AI
Applications of AI in various industries
How does artiﬁcial intelligence learn?
AI agents and environments
What is an agent?
What is an agent’s environment?
AI and Python – how do they relate?
What is Python?
Why choose Python for building AI applications?
Python3 – installation and setup
Windows
Linux
Ubuntu
Linux Mint
CentOS
Fedora
Installing and compiling Python from Source
macOS/Mac OS X
Conclusion
Questions

--- Strana 17 ---
2. Machine Learning and Its Algorithms
Introduction
Structure
Objectives
Understanding Machine Learning (ML)
The Landscape of Machine Learning Algorithms
Components of a Machine Learning algorithm
Diﬀerent learning styles in machine learning algorithms
Supervised learning
Unsupervised learning
Semi-supervised learning
Reinforcement learning
Popular machine learning algorithms
Linear regression
Logistic regression
Decision tree algorithm
Random forest
Naïve Bayes algorithm
Support Vector Machine (SVM)
k-Nearest Neighbor (kNN)
K-Means clustering
Conclusion
Questions
3. Classiﬁcation and Regression Using Supervised Learning
Introduction
Structure
Objectives
Classiﬁcation

--- Strana 18 ---
Various steps to build a classiﬁer using Python
Step 1 – Import ML library
Step 2 – Import dataset
Step 3 – Organizing data-training and testing set
Step 4 – Creating ML model
Step 5 – Train the model
Step 6 – Predicting test set result
Step 7 – Evaluating the accuracy
Lazy earning versus eager learning
Performance metrics for classiﬁcation
Confusion matrix
Accuracy
Precision
Recall
Speciﬁcity
F1 score
Regression
Various steps to build a regressor using Python
Step 1 – Import ML library
Step 2 – Import dataset
Step 3 – Organizing data into training and testing set
Step 4 – Creating ML model
Step 5 – Train the model
Step 6 – Plotting the regression line
Step 7 – Calculating the variance
Performance metrics for regression
Mean Absolute Error (MAE)
Mean Squared Error (MSE)
R-Squared (R2)
Adjusted R-squared (R2)

--- Strana 19 ---
Conclusion
Questions
4. Clustering Using Unsupervised Learning
Introduction
Structure
Objectives
Clustering
Various methods to form clusters
Important ML clustering algorithms
K-means clustering algorithm
Mean-shift clustering algorithm
Hierarchical clustering algorithm
Performance metrics for clustering
Silhouette analysis
Davies–Bouldin index
Dunn index
Conclusion
Questions
5. Solving Problems with Logic Programming
Introduction
Structure
Objectives
Logic programming
Building blocks of logic programming
Useful Python packages for logic programming
Implementation examples
Checking and generating prime numbers
Solving the puzzles

--- Strana 20 ---
Conclusion
Questions
6. Natural Language Processing with Python
Introduction
Structure
Objective
Natural Language Processing (NLP)
Working of NLP
Phases/logical steps in NLP
Implementing NLP
Installing Python’s NLTK Package
Installing NLTK
Downloading NLTK corpus
Understanding tokenization, stemming, and lemmatization
Tokenization
Stemming
Lemmatization
Diﬀerence between lemmatization and stemming
Understanding chunking
Importance of chunking
Understanding Bag-of-Words (BoW) model
Why the BoW algorithm?
Implementing the BoW algorithm using Python
Understanding stop words
When to remove stop words?
Removing stop words using the NLTK library
Understanding vectorization and transformers
Vectorization techniques
Transformers

--- Strana 21 ---
Some examples
Predicting the category
Gender ﬁnding
Conclusion
Questions
7. Implementing Speech Recognition with Python
Introduction
Structure
Objective
Basics of speech recognition
Working of the speech recognition system
Building a speech recognizer
Diﬃculties while developing a speech recognition system
Visualization of audio signals
Characterization of the audio signal
Monotone audio signal generation
Extraction of features from speech
Recognition of spoken words
Conclusion
Questions
8. Implementing Artiﬁcial Neural Network (ANN) with Python
Introduction
Structure
Objective
Understanding of Artiﬁcial Neural Network (ANN)
A biological neuron
Working of ANN
The basic structure of ANN

--- Strana 22 ---
Types of ANNs
Optimizers for training the neural network
Gradient descent
Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD)
Mini-Batch Gradient Descent
Stochastic Gradient Descent with Momentum
Adam (Adaptive Moment Estimation)
Regularization
Regularization techniques
Installing useful Python package for ANN
Examples of building some neural networks
Perceptron-based classiﬁer
Single-layer neural networks
Multi-layer neural networks
Vector quantization
Conclusion
Questions
9. Implementing Reinforcement Learning with Python
Introduction
Structure
Objective
Understanding reinforcement learning
Workﬂow of reinforcement learning
Markov Decision Process (MDP)
Working of Markov Decision Process (MDP)
Diﬀerence between reinforcement learning and supervised learning
Implementing reinforcement learning algorithms
Reinforcement learning algorithms
Types of reinforcement learning
Beneﬁts of reinforcement learning

--- Strana 23 ---
Challenges with reinforcement learning
Building blocks of reinforcement learning
Agent
Environment
Constructing an environment using Python
Constructing an agent using Python
Conclusion
Questions
10. Implementing Deep Learning and Convolutional Neural
Network
Introduction
Structure
Objective
Understanding Deep Learning
Machine learning versus deep learning
Elucidation of Convolutional Neural Networks
The Architecture of Convolutional Neural Network
Localization and object recognition with deep learning
Deep learning models
Image classiﬁcation using CNN in Python
Conclusion
Questions
Index

--- Strana 24 ---
CHAPTER 1
Introduction to AI and Python

--- Strana 25 ---
Introduction
What’s the very ﬁrst thing that comes into your mind when you
think of Artiﬁcial Intelligence It may be an automated machine,
robots, or an image of the brain with some processing. If yes,
then your understanding of AI is appropriate but vague. So, you
may be wondering, what exactly the concept of AI is? This chapter
provides a brief overview of AI. It covers various ﬁelds of study in
AI, real-life applications of AI, and agents and environments. This
chapter also addresses the Python programming language, one of
the most popular programming languages used by developers
today for building AI applications. It also highlights features of
Python, its installation, and steps to run the Python script.

--- Strana 26 ---
Structure
In this chapter, we will discuss the following topics:
Introduction to Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI)
Learning AI
Understanding intelligence
Various ﬁelds of study in AI
Application of AI in various industries
How does artiﬁcial intelligence learn?
AI – agents and environments
AI and Python – how do they relate?
Python3 – installation and setup

--- Strana 27 ---
Objectives
After studying this unit, you will understand the basics of AI. You
will also learn various ﬁelds of study in AI and its applications in
various industries. You will be able to install Python 3 on
Windows, Linux, and Mac OS X. You will also understand the
reason for choosing Python for AI projects.

--- Strana 28 ---
Introduction to Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI)
John McCarthy, an American computer scientist, who was a
pioneer and an inventor, coined the term Artiﬁcial Intelligence in
his 1955 proposal for the 1956 Dartmouth Conference, the ﬁrst
artiﬁcial intelligence conference. According to him, AI is The
science and engineering of making intelligent machines, especially
intelligent computer
As we can see, Artiﬁcial Intelligence is composed of two words,
ﬁrst is Artiﬁcial, which means man-made, and second is
Intelligence, which means thinking power. Hence, we can say that
AI means a man-made thinking power. We can deﬁne AI as:
"A branch of information technology by which we can create
intelligent machines that can think like a human, behave like a
human, and also able to make the decisions at its own.”
AI is accomplished by studying how humans think, learn, and
decide while trying to solve a problem, and then using this
outcome as a base for developing intelligent machines. The best
part of AI is that we do not have to preprogram a machine,
instead we can create a machine with programmed algorithms that
can work with its own intelligence.

--- Strana 29 ---
Why to learn AI?
Are machines capable of thinking? This is a simple question that
is very diﬃcult to answer. Diﬀerent researchers deﬁned terms such
as thought or intelligence in diﬀerent ways. When we look more
closely at AI, this is just one of the problems that are
encountered.
But, one thing is clear that the current progress in the
development of algorithms, combined with greater processing
power and exponential growth in the amount of available data,
means that AI is now capable of developing systems that can
perform tasks that were previously viewed as the exclusive domain
of human beings. Some of the capabilities of AI, due to which we
should learn it, are as follows:
AI is capable of learning through In our day-to-day life, we deal
with huge amounts of data and our mind can’t keep track of
such huge data. AI’s capability of learning through data helps us
to automate things.
AI is capable of teaching In this digital era, data itself keep
changing at a rapid pace, so the knowledge that is derived from
such data must also be updated constantly. To fulﬁll this purpose,
a system should be intelligent, and AI can help us to create such
intelligent systems.

--- Strana 30 ---
AI can respond in real If you use the internet regularly, you’re
probably using some real-time applications in the ﬁelds of e-
commerce, healthcare, retail, manufacturing, self-driving cars, and
so on. AI along with the help of neural networks can analyze the
data more deeply and hence can respond to the situations that
are based on the conditions in real time.
AI can achieve a greater degree of Deep learning, a subset of
machine learning, extends the potential of AI to more complex
tasks that can only be computed through multiple steps. These
tasks are often performed with a greater degree of accuracy.

--- Strana 31 ---
Understanding intelligence
To build AI applications (smart systems that can think and act
like a human), it’s necessary to understand the concept of
intelligence. As discussed before, diﬀerent researchers deﬁned
terms such as thought or intelligence in diﬀerent ways. Let’s
deﬁne intelligence keeping in mind the scope of AI:
Ability to take From a set of many deciding factors, it’s important
to take the optimal, correct, and accurate decisions. This measures
intelligence in a generic way as well as in terms of AI.
Ability to prove Another important factor that measures intelligence
is the ability to prove that why this decision has been chosen.
Ability to think Do you think, in this world, everything can be
proved by mathematical formulae or proof? No, as humans, for
many things, we need to apply our common sense, think logically,
and conclude. This ability also measures intelligence.
Ability to learn and How do we develop our experiences?
Whenever we learn something new, we develop our experiences.
These experiences help all of us to make better decisions and
better opportunities in the future. This also measures intelligence
in a generic way as well as in terms of AI because the more we
learn from the external environment, the more we have the ability
to improve ourselves.

--- Strana 32 ---

--- Strana 33 ---
Types of intelligence
According to Howard an American development psychologist, there
are eight multiple intelligences.
It is the ability to speak, recognize, and use the mechanism of
phonology, syntax, and semantics. Some of the characteristics of
people with linguistic–verbal intelligence are:
They enjoy reading and writing.
They can explain things very well.
They are good at debating or giving persuasive speeches.
They are also good at remembering written and spoken
information.
For example, writers, narrators, teachers, and journalists.
Musical It is the ability to create, communicate, and understand
pitch, rhythm, and meaning of sounds. Some of the characteristics
of people with musical intelligence are:
They enjoy singing as well as playing musical instruments.

--- Strana 34 ---
They can recognize musical patterns and tones easily.
They are good at remembering songs and melodies.
They have a great understanding of musical structure, rhythm, and
notes.
For example, musicians, singers, music teachers, and composers.
It is the ability to use, understand relationships in the absence of
action or objects, and understand complex as well as abstract
ideas. Some of the characteristics of people with logical–-
mathematical intelligence are:
They have excellent problem-solving skills.
They enjoy thinking about abstract ideas.
They are good at solving scientiﬁc experiments.
They also like conducting scientiﬁc experiments.
For example, mathematicians, engineers, computer programmers,
and scientists.

--- Strana 35 ---
It is the ability to perceive visual information, change it, re-create
images without reference to the objects, construct 3-dimensional
images, move, and rotate them. Some of the characteristics of
people with visual–spatial intelligence are:
They enjoy drawing and painting.
They recognize patterns very easily.
They are good at interpreting pictures, graphs, and charts.
They are also good at putting puzzles together.
For example, architects, artists, astronauts, and physicists.
Bodily kinesthetic It is the ability to use part of or complete body
to solve problems. It is the control of ﬁne and coarse motor
skills. Some of the characteristics of people with bodily kinesthetic
intelligence are:
They have excellent physical coordination.
They enjoy creating things by themselves.
They are good at dancing and sports.
For example, players, builders, actors, and dancers.

--- Strana 36 ---
Intra-personal It is the ability to distinguish among one’s feelings,
intentions, and motivations. Some of the characteristics of people
with intra-personal intelligence are:
They are good at analyzing their strengths and weaknesses.
They enjoy analyzing and learning through theories and ideas.
They have excellent self-awareness.
They understand the basis for their motivations as well as
feelings.
For example, writers, theorists, and scientists.
Inter-personal Unlike intra-personal intelligence, it is the ability to
recognize and make distinctions among other feelings, beliefs, and
intentions. Some of the characteristics of people with interpersonal
intelligence are:
They are good at communicating verbally.
They are also skilled at nonverbal communication.
They always tend to create a positive relationship with others.
They are also good at resolving conﬂicts in groups.

--- Strana 37 ---
For example, psychologists, philosophers, and politicians.
Naturalistic It is the ability to explore the environment and
learning about other species. The individuals who have this type
of intelligence are said to be highly aware of even the smallest
changes. Some of the characteristics of people with naturalistic
intelligence are:
They would be interested in studying subjects such as botany,
biology, and zoology.
They enjoy camping, gardening, hiking, and outdoor activities.
They don’t enjoy learning topics that have no relation to nature.
For example, farmer, gardener, biologist, and conservationist.
A system is artiﬁcially intelligent if it is equipped with at least one
or at most all intelligence in it.

--- Strana 38 ---
Various ﬁelds of study in AI
As soon as we start thinking about AI, various terms like Machine
Learning Deep Learning Natural Language Processing Data
Statistical Artiﬁcial Neural Network Genetic and so on come into
our mind. But if we see broadly, AI is not an isolated domain, it’s
an umbrella of every technology that helps transcend human
capabilities. Let’s have a look at some of the ﬁelds of study
within AI:
Machine Learning Machine Learning, one of the most popular
ﬁelds of study, is a subset of AI that allows machines to learn on
their own as humans can learn from their experiences. It learns
from the dataset and makes predictions.
Deep Learning Deep Learning is a subset of ML concerned with
algorithms inspired by the function of the brain called ANN. It
makes the computation of a multi-layer neural network possible.
According to the Oxford dictionary, Logic is the reasoning conducted
or assessed according to strict principles and To an extent, it carries
the same meaning in AI as well. We can deﬁne logic as proof of
validation behind any reason provided. But why it’s important to
include logic in AI? It’s because we want our system (agent) to
think like humans, and for doing so, it should be capable of
making the decision based on the current situation.

--- Strana 39 ---
Knowledge We humans are best at understanding, reasoning, and
interpreting knowledge because as per our knowledge, we can
perform various actions in the real world. But how machines can
do all these things comes under Knowledge Representation KR is
concerned with AI agents thinking and how thinking contributes to
the intelligent behavior of agents. Intelligence is dependent on
knowledge because an AI agent will only be able to accurately act
on the input when it has some knowledge or experience about
that input.

--- Strana 40 ---
Applications of AI in various industries
Artiﬁcial intelligence, machine learning, and deep learning are here,
growing, and with each passing day they are making machines
smarter and smarter. In fact, they are becoming a disruptive force
that is redeﬁning today’s world. They have come roaring out of
high-tech labs to become something that we use every day
without even realizing it. Also, the acceleration we have seen in
recent years shows no signs of slowing down. With applications
ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, the presence and
importance of AI and ML technology are being felt across a broad
spectrum of industries. Let’s have a look at the top ﬁve fast-
growing industries that are tremendously reaping the beneﬁts of
this technology:
Education is the backbone of any nation. AI is improving the
education system by replacing traditional techniques with
personalized, and immersive learning techniques. This way, it helps
teachers to tailor students’ weaknesses. Two of the realities of
immersive learning are Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality
Augmented reality is a type of software that uses the device’s
camera to overlay digital aspects into the real world. It facilitates
the teachers and the trainers in performing those tasks, in a safe
environment, which they previously could not. On the other hand,
virtual reality creates a 360-degree view digital environment, which
allows students to interact directly with the study material by
using e-learning resources on mobile devices.

--- Strana 41 ---
One of the latest advancements in healthcare is Google’s Medical
Brain, which is enabled with a new type of AI algorithm. Google’s
Medical Brain is used to make predictions about the likelihood of
death among patients. AI is also helping the laboratory segment
of healthcare with ML-enabled laboratory robots that can study
new molecules and reactions. In recent years, cancer has been
one of the leading causes of death. Companies like Infervision
have developed an AI-based system, which is trained with suitable
algorithms, to review CT scans and detect early signs of cancer. In
this coronavirus pandemic phase, AI is also used to accurately
forecast infections, deaths, and recovery timelines of the COVID-
19.
Driverless or self-driving vehicles are not a sci-ﬁ thing anymore.
With huge advancements in AI, it became a reality now. Tech
giants such as Google, Apple, Amazon, Cisco, Intel, and Bosch
are leading the R&D in autonomous driving. Whereas automobile
companies such as General Motors Tesla, BMW, and Mercedes are
some serious players in the self-driving vehicle game. Autonomai,
enabled with Deep Learning and AI capabilities, is an autonomous
middleware platform developed by an Indian company named Tata
ELEXSI. It’s not far when we will see and use self-driving vehicles
on Indian roads as well.
In this e-commerce and digital era, we all have the experience of
online shopping and we sometimes also buy the stuﬀ that is not
required at all or we seldom use. The new strategy of e-commerce
companies is to sell the stuﬀ to their customers even before they
realize the need for it. Companies achieve this by realizing their

--- Strana 42 ---
customers' preferences and various other factors like attractive
deals, special coupons, and discounts. This strategy is called
‘purchase recommendations’ or ‘intuitive selling’, which is purely
based on AI algorithms. For example, by using AI algorithms and
computer vision, Amazon go is redeﬁning the way of shopping in
supermarkets. It adds the items automatically in customers’ virtual
cart and once the customer leaves the store, adds the charges on
the Amazon account. So, no more lines at the time of checkout.
Digital Imagine how eﬀective marketing becomes if most of the
time-consuming tasks such as identifying the right perspective,
segmenting as well as targeting audiences, building a winning
content strategy, and scheduling the release could be driven
without human intervention. AI is bringing this power into
marketing automation by using tools like Boomtrain, Phrases,
Persado, Adext, RankBrain, Chatbots, and so on.
You may be wondering if AI, ML, and DL have any application(s)
for day-to-day life or they are meant for industrial use only. Look
around and you could see and feel AI-powered things and devices.
Following are some cool AI applications enhancing our lifestyle:
Virtual Personal Assistants (they are Most of us are interacting
with virtual personal assistants like Siri, Alexa, Cortana, and
Google Now on a regular basis for getting the desired
information. It’s AI technology with the help of which these VPAs
continually learn information about us to provide better services.
In fact, now we can use Google Assistant to talk to the ‘Tulips’
ﬂower. Google and Wageningen University made it possible by

--- Strana 43 ---
mapping tulip signals to human signals on Google Assistant’s
existing Neural Machine Translation. Google Assistant now added
Tulipish as a language and oﬀers translation between dozens of
other human languages. So, now we can say, Okay Google, talk to
my Astonishing, right?
Video I am sure everyone has memories about the classic video
games like Road Super Virtua and Nokia Snake game. But if we
see today’s video games like Call of Grand Theft and Far they are
very advanced because they are empowered by AI algorithms.
These algorithms make today’s games look highly realistic because
the characters in the game understand a gamer’s behavior, learn
from stimuli, and change their traits accordingly. Such features
attract a player to come back to play again and again.
Humanoid (human-like robots for Around 2 years ago, a humanoid
robot named Sophia became the ﬁrst-ever robot to have a
nationality. Yes, in October 2017, Sophia, created by a Hong Kong
ﬁrm named Hanson Robotics, got Saudi Arabia’s citizenship. This
AI-powered robot can imitate human gestures, facial expressions,
and initiate discussion on predeﬁned topics as well. That’s why we
can call Sophia ‘a social humanoid robot’.
In fact, India is also not far behind. We have Rashmi, the world’s
ﬁrst Hindi-speaking humanoid robot, who is hosting a show on
Red FM since December 2018. It is created by Ranchi’s Ranjit
Srivastava. We can call Rashmi, ‘The Indian Sister of Sophia’.
Maps and Everyone has Google Maps or any other app similar to
it on their smartphones for ﬁnding directions and routes. With

--- Strana 44 ---
such apps, there is no more fear of getting lost. Here also AI is
helping us out. Google uses Graph Neural Networks which is an
ML architecture to reduce the percentage of inaccurate Expected
Time of Arrivals
Cab-service ride-sharing In today’s scenario, one of the best ways
to commute is cab services like Ola, Uber, and so on. To save
expenses, many of us used to share our rides with other
passengers. But have you ever thought:
How does the cab service app get a booking from the person
going on the same route as yours?
In a shared ride, how an individual’s fare is determined?
All such queries have only one answer – AI algorithms.

--- Strana 45 ---
How does artiﬁcial intelligence learn?
Today, AI helps various industries as discussed in the preceding
section. These AIs are often self-taught, they work oﬀ a simple set
of instructions to create a unique set of rules and strategies. So
how exactly does a machine learn? There are various ways to
build self-teaching programs, but they all rely on the following
three basic types of machine learning:
Supervised It takes the data sample (usually called training data)
and associated output (usually called labels or responses) with
each data sample during the training process of the model. The
main objective of supervised learning is to learn an association
between input training data and corresponding labels.
Unsupervised Unsupervised learning methods (as opposed to
supervised learning methods) do not require any pre-labeled
training data. In such methods, the machine learning model or
algorithm tries to learn patterns and relationships from the given
raw data without any supervision. Although there are a lot of
uncertainties in the result of these models, we can also obtain a
lot of useful information like all kinds of unknown patterns in the
data, the features that can be useful for categorization, and so on.
Reinforcement In reinforcement learning algorithms, a trained
agent interacts with a speciﬁc environment. The job of the agent

--- Strana 46 ---
is to interact with the environment and once observed, it takes
actions regarding the current state of that environment.

--- Strana 47 ---
AI agents and environments
AI is all about practical reasoning, reasoning in order to do
something, and an AI system is composed of an agent and its
environment. The agents act in their environment and the
environment may contain other agents.

--- Strana 48 ---
What is an agent?
An agent may be deﬁned as anything that can perceive its
environment through sensors and acts upon that environment
through eﬀectors. An agent, having mental properties such as
knowledge, belief, intention, and so on, runs in the cycle of
perceiving, thinking, and acting. Examples of agents are:
A human agent has sensory organs like eyes, ears, tongue, skin,
and nose, which work as sensors. On the other hand, it has
hands, legs, and vocal tract, which work as eﬀectors.
A robotic agent has cameras and infrared range ﬁnders, which act
as sensors. On the other hand, it has various motors acting as
eﬀectors.
A software agent has keystrokes, ﬁles, received network packages,
and encoded bit strings, which work as sensors. On the other
hand, it has sent network packages, content displays on the
screen, which work as eﬀectors.

--- Strana 49 ---
Figure 1.1: Agent and its environment
For an AI agent, the following are the four important rules:
Rule It must have the ability to perceive the environment.
Rule It must use observation to make decisions.
Rule The decisions it makes should result in an action.
Rule Every action it takes must be a rational action.
Agent terminology
The performance measure of an It may be deﬁned as the criteria
determining how successful an agent is.

--- Strana 50 ---
The behavior of an It may be deﬁned as the action that an agent
performs after any given sequence of percepts.
An agent’s perceptual inputs at a given instance is called a
percept.
Percept It may be deﬁned as the history of all that an agent has
perceived till now.
Sensor, through which an agent observes its environment, is a
device detecting the change in the environment and sending the
information to other devices.
They are the devices aﬀecting the environment. They can be
hands, legs, arms, ﬁngers, display screen, sent network packet,
wings, ﬁns, and so on.
Actuators, only responsible for moving and controlling a system,
are the components of machines that convert energy into motion.
Examples of actuators can be electric motors, gears, rails, and so
on.
Rationality and rational agent
The rationality of an agent is concerned with the performance
measure of that agent. As we know, the agent should perform
actions to obtain useful information. So, in simple words, we can
deﬁne rationality as the status of being sensible, reasonable, and

--- Strana 51 ---
having a good sense of judgment. There are following four factors
on which the rationality of any agent depends upon:
The Performance Measures an agent.
Agent’s Percept Sequence
Agent’s Prior Knowledge about the environment.
The Actions an agent can carry out.
(PM, PS, PK, A)
An ideal rational agent is the one that has clear preferences,
models uncertainty, and is capable of doing expected actions to
maximize its performance measure, based on its percept sequence
and built-in knowledge base. A rational agent is said to perform
the right actions always. Here the right actions mean the actions
that cause the agent to be most successful in the given percept
sequence.
Structure of an AI agent
The main task of artiﬁcial intelligence is to create and design an
agent program that implements the agent function. In this way,
the following structure of an AI agent can be viewed as the
combination of architecture and agent program:

--- Strana 52 ---
Agent = Architecture + Agent program
Architecture, agent function, and agent program are the three
main terms involved in the structure of an AI agent.
It is the machinery an AI agent executes on.
Agent It may be deﬁned as the map from the percept sequence
to an action.
f : p* → A
Agent It is an implementation of agent function that executes on
the physical architecture to produce function.
P.E.A.S representation
P.E.A.S representation is a type of model in which the properties
of an AI agent or rational agent can be grouped. It consists of
four words:
P: Performance measure
E: Environment
A: Actuators

--- Strana 53 ---
S: Sensors
As discussed, the objective for the success of an agent’s behavior
is the performance measure.
Let’s see two examples of agents with their P.E.A.S representation:
Self-driving The P.E.A.S representation for self-driving vehicles will
be:
P Safety, time, legal driving, and comfort.
E Road, road signs, other vehicles, and pedestrian.
A Accelerator, steering, brake, clutch, signal, and horn.
S Camera, speedometer, GPS, sonar, and accelerometer.
Vacuum The P.E.A.S representation for vacuum cleaners will be:
P Cleanness, battery life, eﬃciency, and security.
E Room, wooden ﬂoor, carpet, other obstacles like shoes, bed,
table, and so on.
A Brushes, wheels, and vacuum extractors.

--- Strana 54 ---
S Camera, cliﬀ sensor, dirt detection sensor, bump sensor, and
infrared wall sensor.
Types of agents
Based on the degree of perceived intelligence and capability,
agents can be grouped into the following four classes:
Simple reﬂex agent
Model-based reﬂex agent
Goal-based agent
Utility-based agent
Simple reflex agent
They choose actions based only on the current percept and ignore
the rest of the percept history.
They work based on the condition–action rule, which is a rule that
maps a state, that is, condition to an action. If the condition is
true, the action is taken, otherwise not. For example, a room
cleaner agent works only if there is dirt in the room.
Their environment is fully observable.

--- Strana 55 ---
Figure 1.2: Simple reﬂex agent
Model-based reﬂex agent:
In order to choose their actions, they use a model of the world.
It must keep track of the internal state, adjusted by each percept,
that depends on the percept history.
They can handle partially observable environments.
Model is the knowledge about how things happen in the world.
Internal state is a representation of unobserved aspects of the
current state, which depends upon percept history.

--- Strana 56 ---
In order to update the agent’s state, it requires the following
information:
How the world evolves?
How do the actions of agents aﬀect the world?
Figure 1.3: Model-based reﬂex agent
Goal-based agent
They choose their actions and take decisions based on how far
they are currently from their goals – a description of a desirable
situation.
Every action of such agents is intended to reduce the distance
from the goal.

--- Strana 57 ---
This approach, that is goal-based, is more ﬂexible than reﬂex
agents because the knowledge supporting a decision is explicitly
modeled, which allows for modiﬁcations.
Figure 1.4: Goal-based agents
Utility-based agent
They are developed having their end uses as building blocks.
In order to decide which is the best among multiple possible
alternatives, utility-based agents are used.
They choose their actions and take decisions based on a
preference (utility) for every state.
Sometimes, achieving the desired goal is not enough because
goals are inadequate when:

--- Strana 58 ---
We have conﬂicting goals and only a few among them can be
achieved.
Goals have some uncertainty of being achieved.
Figure 1.5: Utility-based agents

--- Strana 59 ---
What is an agent’s environment?
Everything in the world that surrounds the agent is called an
agent’s environment. It can’t be a part of an agent itself, but it’s
a situation in which the agent is present. In simple words, we
can say that the environment is where an agent lives and
operates. It’s an environment that provides an agent something to
sense and act upon it.
Nature of environments
There are several aspects such as the shape and frequency of the
data, the nature of the problem, and the volume of knowledge
available at any given time, that distinguish one type of AI
environment from another. If anyone wants to tackle a speciﬁc AI
problem, they should ﬁrst understand the characteristics of AI
environments. From that perspective, based on the nature of the
environment, we use several categories to group AI problems.
Fully observable versus partially Fully observable AI environments
are those on which, at any given time, an agent sensor can sense
or access the complete state of an environment. It’s very simple
as there is no need to maintain the internal state to keep track of
history. Image recognition operates in a fully observable AI
environment.

--- Strana 60 ---
Partially observable AI environments are those on which, at any
given time, an agent sensor cannot sense or access the complete
state of an environment. Self-driving vehicle scenarios operate in a
partial observable AI environment.
Complete versus Complete AI environments are those on which, at
any given time, an agent has enough information to complete a
branch of the problem. Chess is a classic example of such AI
environments.
On the other hand, incomplete AI environments are those in
which agents can’t anticipate many moves in advance. The agents,
at any given time, focus on ﬁnding a good equilibrium state.
Poker is a classic example of incomplete AI environments.
Static versus Static AI environment is an environment that cannot
change itself while an agent is deliberating. That’s the reason they
are easy to deal as the agent doesn’t need to continually look at
the world while deciding for an action. Speech analysis and
crossword puzzles are the problems operating on a static AI
environment.
In contrast, dynamic AI environment is an environment that can
change itself while an agent is deliberating. In dynamic
environments, at each action, agents need to continually look at
the world. Taxi driving and vision AI systems in drones are some
problems operating in dynamic AI environments.

--- Strana 61 ---
Discrete versus Discrete AI environment is an environment in
which there are a ﬁnite (although arbitrarily large) number of
percepts and actions that can be performed within. The games
such as Chess and GO also come under a discrete environment.
In contrast to a discrete environment, a continuous environment
relies on unknown and rapidly changing data sources. Vision AI
systems in drones and self-driving vehicles are examples of a
continuous AI environment.
Deterministic versus As the name implies, in a deterministic AI
environment, an agent’s current state and selected action can
determine the next state of the environment. As in a fully
observable environment, the agent does not need to worry about
uncertainty in a deterministic environment as well. Most of the
real-world AI environments are not deterministic in nature.
On the other hand, a stochastic AI environment is an
environment that cannot be determined completely by an agent.
It’s random in nature. Self-driving vehicles are examples of
stochastic processes.
Single-agent versus As the name implies, in a single-agent AI
environment, there is only one agent that is involved and
operating by itself.
In contrast, in a multi-agent AI environment, multiple agents are
involved and operating.

--- Strana 62 ---
AI and Python – how do they relate?
There is a lot of confusion among researchers and developers
about which programing language to choose for building AI
applications. The list may include LISP, Prolog, Python, Java, C#,
and a few more as well. The choice of a programming language
depends upon many factors like ease of code, personal preference,
and available resources. Although the skills of the developer
always matter more than any programming language, here, we are
going to justify just one, that is, Python programming language
for AI.

--- Strana 63 ---
What is Python?
Python, created by Guido Van Rossum in 1991, is an OOPs based
high-level interpreted programming language and focuses on Rapid
Application Development and Don’t Repeat Yourself Due to ease
of learning and adaptation, Python has become one of the fastest-
growing programming languages. Python’s ever-evolving libraries
make it a good choice for any project whether IoT, Data Science,
AI or Mobile App.

--- Strana 64 ---
Why choose Python for building AI applications?
Python programming language is favored by developers for a
whole set of applications, but what makes it a particularly good ﬁt
for applications/projects involving AI? Let’s have a look:
A great library and framework One of the aspects that makes
Python the most popular language used for AI is its abundance of
libraries and frameworks. A library is a module or group of
modules, published by various sources like PyPi, that includes a
pre-written piece of code that saves development time and allows
users to perform diﬀerent actions or reach some functionality. As
we know, ML and DL require continuous data processing, and
Python’s libraries let us access, handle, and transform data. The
following are some of the widespread libraries we can use for
building AI applications:
It is very useful in handling basic ML algorithms like clustering,
regression, classiﬁcation, and so on.
It is used for high-level data structures and analysis. It allows the
ﬁltering and merging of data. It can also be used for gathering
data from external resources.
It’s a very useful Python library for deep learning. It uses the GPU
in addition to the CPU, hence allows fast calculations.

--- Strana 65 ---
Another useful library for deep learning. It allows eﬃcient training
and utilizing an ANN with massive datasets.
One of the most useful Python libraries for working with natural
language recognition and computational linguistics.
It is used for visualization. We can easily create 2D plots,
histograms, charts with Matplotlib.
Another very useful Python library for deep learning. It allows
switching between the CPU and the GPU.
Ease of use and Python is almost unrivaled when it comes to
ease of use and simplicity, particularly for novice AI developers.
Python’s ease of use and simplicity has several advantages for ML
and DL:
ML and DL both rely on extremely complex algorithms and multi-
stage workﬂows. That’s why the less the developers worry about
the intricacies of coding, the more they can focus on ﬁnding the
solutions to the problems.
The simple syntax of Python makes it faster in development than
many other programming languages. That’s the reason a developer
can quickly test algorithms without having to implement them.
In addition to the preceding beneﬁts, Python’s easily readable code
is invaluable for collaborative coding.

--- Strana 66 ---
Low-entry The process of learning Python programming language
is very easy because it resembles to everyday English language.
That’s the reason data scientists can quickly pick up Python and
start using it for developing AI applications without wasting too
much time into learning the language.
Due to its ﬂexibility, Python for AI is a great choice:
Developers have an option to choose either OOPs or scripting.
No need to recompile the source code and developers can
implement any changes and check the result quickly.
It can be combined with other programming languages.
Moreover, Python’s ﬂexibility also allows a developer to choose
from various programming styles like the imperative, functional,
object-oriented, or procedural style.
Platform Python is also a very versatile language. What we mean
is that Python is platform-independent and can run on any
platform including Windows, macOS, Linux, Unix, and 21 others.
With some small-scale changes in code, you can get your code
running in the new OS. Again, this saves development time and
money in testing on various platforms.

--- Strana 67 ---
The abundance of community It’s always very helpful if there is
strong community support built around the language. Python is an
open-source programming language, which means that it is
supported by a lot of resources. Moreover, a lot of Python
documentation is also available online as well as in Python
forums where developers can discuss errors, solve problems, and
help each other out.

--- Strana 68 ---
Python3 – installation and setup
Let’s see how to set up a working Python 3 distribution on
Windows, macOs, and Linux.

--- Strana 69 ---
Windows
Installing Python on Windows OS does not involve much more
than downloading the Python installer from the Python.org website
and running it. Follow the steps to install Python 3 on Windows:
Downloading Python installer
First, open a browser window and go to Python.org website. Now,
navigate to the download page for windows.
Underneath the heading at the top that says Download the latest
version for click on the link for the Latest Python 3 Release –
Python 3.x.x (as of this writing, the latest is Python 3.8.0).
Scroll to the bottom and select either of the following:
Windows x86-64 executable installer for 64-bit.
Windows x86 executable installer for 32-bit.
Running the installer
Now after downloading an installer, we need to simply run it by
double-clicking on the downloaded ﬁle. A dialog box should appear
that looks something like shown in the following screenshot:

--- Strana 70 ---
Figure 1.6: Python setup
In order to make sure that the interpreter will be placed in your
execution path, check the box that says Add Python 3.x.x to

--- Strana 71 ---
Linux
There are very high chances your Linux distribution has Python
installed already, but it probably won’t be the latest version.
Instead of Python 3, it may have Python 2.
In order to ﬁnd out what version(s) you have, try the following
commands on terminal windows:
python –version
python2 –version
python3 --version
One or more of preceding commands should respond with a
version, as shown in the following:
$ python3 --version
Python 3.8.0
Suppose if the version shown is of Python 2 or a version of
Python 3 that is not the latest one (3.8.0 as of this writing), then
you should install the latest version. The procedure of installing
the latest Python version will depend on the Linux distribution you
are running.

--- Strana 72 ---

--- Strana 73 ---
Ubuntu
Depending on the Ubuntu distribution version, the instructions for
installing Python vary. First, we need to determine our local
Ubuntu version by running the following command:
$ lsb_release -a
We will get something like the following output for the preceding
command:
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID: Ubuntu
Description: Ubuntu 16.04.4 LTS
Release: 16.04
Codename: xenial
Check the version number you see under Release in the output.
Depending on the version number for your Ubuntu distribution,
follow the instructions:
Ubuntu 16.10 and 17.04 have Python 3.x.x in the Universe
repository. we can install it with the following commands:
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install python3.8

--- Strana 74 ---
Once installed, we can invoke it with the command
Ubuntu 14.04 or 16.04 do not have Python 3.x.x in the Universe
repository; hence, we need to get it from a Personal Package
Archive For instance, to install Python from the PPA named use
the following commands:
$ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:deadsnakes/ppa
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install python3.8
Once installed, we can invoke it with the command

--- Strana 75 ---
Linux Mint
We can follow the preceding instructions for Ubuntu 14.04 as
Mint and Ubuntu use the same package management system. The
PPA named deadsnakes works with Mint as well.

--- Strana 76 ---
CentOS
The IUS Community is providing newer versions of software for
Enterprise Linux distros that is, Red Hat Enterprise and CentOS.
We can use their work to install Python 3.
In order to install, we must ﬁrst update our system with the yum
package manager. Use the following commands to do so:
$ sudo yum update
$ sudo yum install yum-utils
After that, we can install the CentOS IUS package by using the
following command:
$ sudo yum install https://centos7.iuscommunity.org/ius-release.rpm
Now, with the help of the following commands, we can install
Python and Pip:
$ sudo yum install python36u
$ sudo yum install python36u-pip

--- Strana 77 ---
Fedora
Fedora has a roadmap to switch to Python 3, which indicates that
the current version and the next few versions will all ship with
Python 2 as the default; however, Python 3 will be installed. If the
python3 installed on Fedora is not Python 3.8, you can use the
following command to install it:
$ sudo dnf install python3.8

--- Strana 78 ---
Installing and compiling Python from Source
It may be possible that our Linux distribution will not have the
latest version of Python, or we may not be able to build the
latest version ourselves. In that case, we can use the following
steps to build and compile Python from the source:
Downloading the source code
To start with, we need to get the Python source code. As we did
for Windows, we can go to the Downloads page of Python.org
and check for the latest source (3.8.0) for Python 3.
Now once the version is selected, at the bottom of the page
there is a Files section. We now need to select the Gzipped
source tarball and must download it on our machine.
For them who prefer a command-line method, they can use wget
to download it to their current directory:
$ wget https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.8.0/Python-3.8.0.tgz
Preparing the system
In order to build Python from scratch, we need to follow some
steps that are speciﬁc to that Linux distribution. Although, on all

--- Strana 79 ---
the distributions, the goal of these steps is same, but in case, if
it does not use you might still need to translate them according
to your Linux distribution.
Before getting started, we need to update the system packages on
our machine. For apt-based systems (Debian, Ubuntu, and so on)
use the following commands:
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get upgrade
Next, make sure that your system has the tools needed to build
Python. Some of them are listed as follows in the command.
Commands for apt-based systems like Debian, Ubuntu, and so on
are as follows:
$ sudo apt-get install -y make build-essential libssl-dev zlib1g-dev
libbz2-dev libreadline-dev libsqlite3-dev wget curl llvm libncurses5-
dev libncursesw5-dev xz-utils tk-dev
Commands for yum-based systems like CentOS are as follows:
$ sudo yum -y groupinstall development
$ sudo yum -y install zlib-devel
Building and compiling Python

--- Strana 80 ---
As we have the prerequisites and the TAR ﬁle, we can unpack the
source into a directory. The following command will create a new
directory called
$ tar xvf Python-3.8.0.tgz
Now go to the directory:
$ cd Python-3.8.0
Now, in order to prepare the build, we need to run the
./conﬁgure tool as follows:
$ ./conﬁgure --enable-optimizations --with-ensurepip=install
Next, build the Python programs using where the -j option will
ask you to split the building into parallel steps to speed up the
compilation.
$ make -j 8
As we want to install a new version of Python, we will use the
altinstall target here so that the system’s version of Python should
not be overwritten. As you’re installing Python into we should run
as root:
$ sudo make altinstall

--- Strana 81 ---
Verifying the installation
Finally, with the help of the following command, we can test
whether our new Python version is installed or not:
$ python3.8 -V
Python 3.8.0

--- Strana 82 ---
macOS/Mac OS X
If you are using Mac OS X, the best way to install Python is
through the Homebrew package manager. If you don’t have
Homebrew, you can install it by navigating to
Once you have installed Homebrew, use the following command
to install Python3:
$ brew install python3

--- Strana 83 ---
Conclusion
The intent of this chapter was to get you familiarized with the
foundations of Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Python before deep diving
into building AI applications. The capabilities of AI, with a focus
on important ﬁelds of study under AI, are introduced in this
chapter. Machine learning, deep learning, logic, artiﬁcial neural
network (ANN), and knowledge representation are some of the
most important areas covered under AI. Keeping in mind the
scope of AI, this chapter also deﬁnes intelligence.
AI is no longer a science-ﬁction term; it becomes a reality now.
Industries are deploying AI and its subsets, namely, machine
learning and deep learning for a more productive and proﬁtable
solution. In this chapter, we tried to make you feel the presence
and importance of AI technology in ﬁve fast-growing industries,
and also how these industries are reaping the beneﬁts of this
technology. Next up, we also explored some cool AI applications
enhancing our day-to-day life.
The subject of AI is all about practical reasoning and is
composed of agents and its environment. Concepts relevant to
agents and environments have also been covered in this chapter
including the structure of agents, types of agents, rationality, and
nature of the environment.

--- Strana 84 ---
We brieﬂy described the relation between AI and Python including
the features of Python that make it one of the most suitable
languages for building AI applications. Finally, you learned how to
install and set up Python on various platforms like Windows,
macOS/Mac OS X, and Linux.
We brought everything covered in this chapter together to make
you understand the basic concepts of AI, its impact on our
lifestyle, and also learn about the Python programming language.
This gets you ready for the next chapters, where you will
implement AI algorithms with Python.

--- Strana 85 ---
Questions
What is Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI)? Describe some of the AI
applications and explain how they are enhancing our lifestyle?
What are the most important ﬁelds of study within AI?
What is an AI agent? Explain its structure and types.
What is a rational agent? What are the factors on which the
rationality of any agent depends?
Write down the features of the Python programming language that
make it a good ﬁt for building AI applications.
______________________________
1 Gardner, Howard. Frames of Mind: The Theory of Multiple
Intelligences. New York: Basic Books, 1983.

--- Strana 86 ---
CHAPTER 2
Machine Learning and Its Algorithms

--- Strana 87 ---
Introduction
Do you ﬁnd any similarity between steam engines, age of science,
and digital technology? They are known as the ﬁrst three industrial
revolutions responsible for fundamentally transforming our society
and the world around us.
In this digital era, we are experiencing this for the fourth time.
But, this fourth industrial revolution is powered by Artiﬁcial
Intelligence Machine Learning Deep IoT of edge computing along
with increasing computing power like quantum computing. The
data or the information is the driver and fuel of this industrial
revolution.
No doubt, with better computational power and more storage
resources, this data is increasing day by day at a very rapid pace.
For businesses and organizations, the real challenge is to make
sense of this huge data. That’s the reason they are trying to build
intelligence systems by using methodologies from ML, one of the
most exciting ﬁelds of computer science. We can see ML as the
application and science of algorithms that provide meaning to the
data.
This chapter provides a brief overview of ML and its model. It
also addresses various ML methods. Using the Python
programming language, we will also implement some of the most
useful ML algorithms.

--- Strana 88 ---
Structure
Understanding machine learning
The landscape of machine learning algorithms
Components of a machine learning algorithm
Diﬀerent learning styles in machine learning algorithms
Supervised learning
Unsupervised learning
Semi-supervised learning
Reinforcement learning
Popular machine learning algorithms
Linear regression
Logistic regression
Decision tree

--- Strana 89 ---
Random forest
Naïve Bayes
Support Vector Machine (SVM)
k-Nearest Neighbor (KNN)
k-means clustering

--- Strana 90 ---
Objectives
After studying this chapter, you should be able to implement
various popular machine learning algorithms, namely, Linear
Regression, Logistic Regression, Decision Tree, Random Forest,
Support Vector Machine (SVM), Naïve Bayes, k-Nearest Neighbor,
and k-means clustering in the Python programming language. You
will also learn diﬀerent learning styles such as supervised,
unsupervised and semi-supervised, and reinforcement used in ML
algorithms.

--- Strana 91 ---
Understanding Machine Learning (ML)
Machine learning, a subset of AI, is the practice of computer
systems to extract patterns out of raw data by using an algorithm
or a method. ML algorithms allow computer systems to learn
from experience without explicit programming or any human
intervention. To give you an example, a spam ﬁlter, one of the
ﬁrst applications of ML, can easily determine if the email is
important or a spam.

--- Strana 92 ---
The Landscape of Machine Learning Algorithms
The ﬁeld of machine learning consists of learning algorithms that
help the machine to learn from data and improve its performance
with time. Also, based on its interaction with the environment or
input data, there are diﬀerent ways an algorithm can model a
problem. In this section, we’ll go through the components of an
ML algorithm, diﬀerent learning styles, or learning models that an
ML algorithm can have, and we’ll take a tour of the most popular
ML algorithms also.

--- Strana 93 ---
Components of a Machine Learning algorithm
Before deep diving into the components of the ML algorithm, we
must understand ML through the very interesting deﬁnition given
by Professor Mitchell in
“A computer program is said to learn from experience E with respect
to some class of tasks T and performance measure P, if its
performance at tasks in T, as measured by P, improves with
experience E.”
The preceding deﬁnition focuses on the following three
parameters:
Task
Performance
Experience
These three are the main components of any of the learning
algorithms shown in the following ﬁgure:

--- Strana 94 ---
Figure 2.1: Components of ML algorithm
Let’s simplify the deﬁnition of ML:
ML is that ﬁeld of AI which consists of learning algorithms that
improve their performance (P), at executing some task say T, over the
time with experience E.
The three main components of the ML algorithm are described as
follows:
Task A task should be deﬁned in a two-fold manner. A task, T,
from a problem’s perspective, can be deﬁned as the real-world

--- Strana 95 ---
problem to be solved. The problem, ﬁnding the best marketing
strategy or predicting the house price, can be anything. Whereas
from the ML perspective, deﬁning a task is quite diﬀerent because
it’s diﬃcult to solve ML-based tasks by using the traditional
programming approach. A task, T, is called a machine learning-
based task if it is based on the workﬂow that the system should
follow to operate on sample data points. These sample data
points typically consist of data attributes or features. Classiﬁcation,
Regression, Anomaly detection, Clustering, Translation, and so on,
are some of the tasks that could be classiﬁed as the ML tasks.
Experience In layman’s terms, experience is the knowledge a
person gets by doing something or observing someone else do it.
In the case of machine learning-based tasks, it is the knowledge
gained from sample data points provided to the ML algorithm.
After getting the data points, the ML algorithm runs iteratively
and learns from the inherent pattern. Such learning by the ML
algorithm or model is called experience (E), which will be used to
solve task T. There are various ways of learning and gaining
experience, including supervised, unsupervised, semi-supervised,
and reinforcement learning. We will discuss them in the next
section.
Performance How do we know if our ML model, which is
supposed to perform a task T and learning or gaining experience
E from sample data points over time, is performing well or not?
This is where the third component of the ML algorithm comes
into the picture. This component is called performance, P, which
is a quantitative metric used to measure how well the ML model
is performing the task, T, with experience, E. Accuracy score, F1

--- Strana 96 ---
score, precision, confusion matrix, recall, and speciﬁcity are some
of the performance metrics we can choose from to measure the
performance of our ML model.

--- Strana 97 ---
Diﬀerent learning styles in machine learning algorithms
Let’s look at the following four diﬀerent learning styles in ML
algorithms.

--- Strana 98 ---
Supervised learning
Supervised learning methods are the ML methods that are most
commonly used. It takes the data sample (usually called training
data) and the associated output (usually called labels or
responses) with each data sample during the training process of
the model. The main objective of supervised learning is to
understand the association between input training data and
corresponding labels.
Let’s understand it with an example. Suppose we have:
Input variable:
Output variable:
In order to learn the mapping function from the input to output,
we need to apply an algorithm whose main objective is to
approximate the mapping function so well that we can also easily
predict the output variable for the new input data, as shown in
the following example:
Y = f(x)
These methods are called supervised learning methods because
the ML model learns from the training data where the desired

--- Strana 99 ---
output is already known. Logistic regression, k-Nearest neighbors
(KNN), Decision tree, and Random Forest are some of the well-
known supervised machine learning algorithms.
Based on the type of ML-based tasks, supervised learning methods
can be divided into two major classes as follows:
The main objective of the classiﬁcation-based tasks is to predict
categorical output responses based on the input data that is being
provided. The output depends on the ML model’s learning in the
training phase. Categorical means unordered and discrete values;
hence, the output responses will belong to a speciﬁc discrete
category.
For example, predicting high-risk patients and discriminating them
from low-risk patients is also a classiﬁcation task. Suppose for
newly admitted patients, an emergency room in a hospital
measures 12 variables (such as blood sugar, blood pressure, age,
weight, and so on). After measuring these variables, a decision is
to be taken whether to put the patient in ICU or not. There is a
simple condition that a high priority should be given to the
patients who may survive more than a month.
The main objective of regression-based tasks is to predict
continuous numerical output responses based on the input data
that is being provided. The output depends on the ML model’s
learning in the training phase. Similar to classiﬁcation, with the
help of regression, we can predict the output responses for
unseen data instances, but that is with continuous numerical

--- Strana 100 ---
output values. Predicting the price of houses is one of the most
common real-world examples of regression.

--- Strana 101 ---
Unsupervised learning
Unsupervised learning methods (as opposed to supervised learning
methods) do not require any pre-labeled training data. In such
methods, the machine learning model or algorithm tries to learn
patterns and relationships from the given raw data without any
supervision. Although there are a lot of uncertainties in the result
of these models, we can still obtain a lot of useful information
like all kinds of unknown patterns in the data and the features
that can be useful for categorization.
To make it clearer, suppose we have:
Input variable: x
There would be no corresponding output variable. For learning,
the algorithm needs to discover interesting patterns in data. K-
means Clustering, Hierarchical Clustering, and Hebbian Learning
are some of the well-known unsupervised machine learning
algorithms.
Based on the type of ML-based tasks, unsupervised learning
methods can be categorized into the following broad areas:
Clustering, one of the most useful unsupervised machine learning
algorithms/methods, is used to ﬁnd the similarity and relationship
patterns among data samples. Once the relationship patterns are

--- Strana 102 ---
found, it clusters the data samples into groups having similar
features. The following ﬁgure illustrates the working of clustering
methods:
Figure 2.2: Clustering Method
One other useful unsupervised machine learning algorithm/method
is Association. In order to ﬁnd patterns representing the
interesting relationships between a variety of items, association
analyzes a large dataset. For example, analyzing customer
shopping patterns comes under association. It is also known as
Association Rule Mining or Market Basket Analysis.
Anomaly Sometimes, we need to ﬁnd out and eliminate the
observations that do not occur generally. In that case, the most
useful unsupervised ML method is Anomaly detection. It uses
learned knowledge to diﬀerentiate between anomalous and normal
data points. K-means clustering, mean shift clustering, and K-
nearest neighbors (KNN) are some of the unsupervised learning
algorithms that can detect anomalous data based on its features.

--- Strana 103 ---
Dimensionality As the name implies, dimensionality reduction is
used to reduce the number of feature variables for every data
sample by selecting a principal feature. One of the main reasons
behind using the dimensionality reduction method is the problem
of feature space complexity (curse of dimensionality). This problem
arises when we start analyzing and extracting features, probably
millions of features from our data sample. For example, Principal
Component Analysis KNN are some of the popular dimensionality
reduction methods.

--- Strana 104 ---
Semi-supervised learning
Semi-supervised machine learning methods fall between supervised
and unsupervised machine learning methods. In simple words,
they are neither fully supervised nor fully unsupervised. For
training, such methods use a small amount of pre-labeled
annotated data and lots of unlabeled data. Following are the two
approaches that one can follow to implement semi-supervised
learning methods:
In this approach, we can ﬁrst use the small amount of annotated
and labeled data to build the supervised model. Once done with
the supervised model, we can then apply the same to large
amounts of unlabeled data to get more labeled samples. Then,
train the model on these labeled samples and repeat the process.
In this approach, we can ﬁrst use the unsupervised methods to
cluster similar data samples and then annotate these groups.
Once annotated, we can use them to train the model.

--- Strana 105 ---
Reinforcement learning
Reinforcement machine learning methods are a bit diﬀerent from
supervised, unsupervised, and semi-supervised machine learning
methods. In these kinds of learning algorithms, a trained agent
interacts with a speciﬁc environment. The job of the agent is to
interact with the environment and once observed, it takes actions
regarding the current state of that environment. Let’s understand
the working of reinforcement learning methods in the following
steps:
Prepare an agent with some set of strategies.
Observe the environment’s current state.
Regarding the current state of the environment, select the optimal
policy and perform suitable action accordingly.
An agent gets a reward or penalty based on the action it took
according to the current state of the environment.
If needed, update the set of strategies.
Repeat the process until the agent learns and adopts the optimal
policy.

--- Strana 106 ---
Popular machine learning algorithms
There are so many ML algorithms that we can feel overwhelming
when algorithm names are thrown around us. It is always
expected from us to just know what these algorithms are and
where they actually ﬁt. So, let’s take a tour of various popular ML
algorithms and their implementation in the Python programming
language.

--- Strana 107 ---
Linear regression
A statistical model that attempts to model the linear relationship
between a dependent variable with a given set of independent and
explanatory variables by ﬁtting a linear equation into the observed
data is called linear regression. What does the linear relationship
between variables mean? It means that with the change (increase
or decrease) in the value of one or more independent variables,
the value of the dependent variable will also change (increase or
decrease) accordingly.
Mathematically, a linear regression line has an equation of the
form:
Y = m X + b
Where Y is the dependent variable and X is the independent or
explanatory variable.
The slope of the regression line is It represents the eﬀect X has
on
b is the When X = 0, Y = b
Types of linear regression

--- Strana 108 ---
Simple Linear Regression and Multiple Linear Regression are the
two types of linear regressions. Let’s learn about them and their
implementation using Python.
Simple Linear Regression (SLR)
SLR, the most basic version of linear regression, predicts a
response using a single feature. It assumes that the two variables
are linearly related.
Implementing simple linear regression in Python:
Let’s see how we can implement SLR in the Python programming
language. In the following example, we will use a small dataset.
We can also use a dataset from the scikit-learn library, which will
be used in our next example:
Example-1:
#Importing necessary packages
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
#Deﬁning a function for calculating values needed for Simple
Linear Regression (SLR)

--- Strana 109 ---
def coef_estimation(x, y):
n = np.size(x) #calculating number of observations ‘n’.
mean_x, mean_y = np.mean(x), np.mean(y) #calculating mean of x
and y vectors
cross_xy = np.sum(y*x) – n*mean_y*mean_x #calculating cross-
deviation and deviation about x.
cross_xx = np.sum(x*x) – n*mean_x*mean_x
reg_b_1 = cross_xy / cross_xx #calculating regression coeﬃcients,
i.e., b.
reg_b_0 = mean_y – reg_b_1*mean_x
return(reg_b_0, reg_b_1)
#Deﬁning a function for plotting the regression line
def plot_regression_line(x, y, b):
plt.scatter(x, y, color = "r", marker = "o", s = 20) #plotting actual
points as scatter plot
y_pred = b[0] + b[1]*x #predicting response vector
plt.plot(x, y_pred, color = "g")#plotting the regression line and
labels on it
plt.xlabel('x')
plt.ylabel('y')
plt.show()
#Deﬁning the main() function to provide dataset and calling
preceding-deﬁned functions
def main():
x = np.array([0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,10, 11, 12, 13, 14])

--- Strana 110 ---
y = np.array([100, 300, 350, 500, 750, 850, 900,950, 1250, 1350,
1400, 1550, 1600, 1650,1700])
b = coef_estimation(x, y)
print("Estimated coeﬃcients:\nreg_b_0 = {} \nreg_b_1 =
{}".format(b[0],b[1]))
plot_regression_line(x, y, b)
if __name__ == "__main__":
main()
We will get the following output for the preceding Python
program:
Output:
Estimated coeﬃcients:
reg_b_0 = 187.08333333333337
reg_b_1 = 118.03571428571429

--- Strana 111 ---
Figure 2.3: Simple Linear Regression
Example-2:
In this example, we will implement SLR by using a diabetes
dataset from scikit-learn:
#Importing necessary packages
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np
from sklearn import datasets, linear_model
from sklearn.metrics import mean_squared_error, r2_score
%matplotlib inline

--- Strana 112 ---
#Loading the dataset and creating its object
diabetes_data = datasets.load_diabetes()
#Using one feature
X = diabetes_data.data[:, np.newaxis, 2]
#Splitting the data into training and testing sets
X_train = X[:-35]
X_test = X[-35:]
#Splitting the target into training and testing sets
y_train = diabetes_data.target[:-35]
y_test = diabetes_data.target[-35:]
#Creating linear regression object
SLR_reg = linear_model.LinearRegression()
#Training the model using the training sets
SLR_reg.ﬁt(X_train, y_train)
#Making predictions by using the testing set

--- Strana 113 ---
y_pred = SLR_reg.predict(X_test)
# Printing Regression Coeﬃcient, Mean Squared Error(MSE),
Variance Score. Also plotting the regression line and labels on it
print('Coeﬃcients: \n', SLR_reg.coef_)
print("Mean squared error: %.2f"
% mean_squared_error(y_test, y_pred))
print('Variance score: %.2f' % r2_score(y_test, y_pred))
plt.scatter(X_test, y_test, color='red')
plt.plot(X_test, y_pred, color='green', linewidth=3)
plt.xticks(())
plt.yticks(())
plt.show()
We will get the following output for the preceding Python
program:
Output:
Coeﬃcients:
[963.82249207]
Mean squared error: 3487.66
Variance score: 0.26

--- Strana 114 ---
Figure 2.4: Simple Linear Regression for diabetes dataset
Multiple Linear Regression (MLR)
MLR, the extension of SLR, predicts a response that is a
dependent variable using two or more than two features or
independent variables.
Suppose a dataset is having observations and features, then the
regression line for these features can be calculated with the help
of the following equation:
… +
Where is the predicted response value.

--- Strana 115 ---
And … regression coeﬃcients.
MLR model also includes the error known as residual error. This
changes the preceding calculation as follows:
= + + … +
Implementing multiple linear regression in Python:
#Importing necessary packages
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np
from sklearn import datasets, linear_model, metrics
%matplotlib inline
#Loading the dataset and creating its object
boston_data = datasets.load_boston(return_X_y=False)
#Deﬁning feature matrix X and response vector Y
X = boston_data.data
y = boston_data.target
#Splitting the data into training and testing sets
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split

--- Strana 116 ---
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.6,
random_state=1)
#Creating regression object and do the training of the model
MLR_reg = linear_model.LinearRegression()
MLR_reg.ﬁt(X_train, y_train)
# Printing Regression Coeﬃcient, and Variance Score. Also plotting
the regression line and labels on it
print('Coeﬃcients: \n', MLR_reg.coef_)
print('Variance score: {}'.format(MLR_reg.score(X_test, y_test)))
plt.style.use('bmh')
plt.scatter(MLR_reg.predict(X_train), MLR_reg.predict(X_train) -
y_train,
color = "green", s = 20, label = 'Train_data')
plt.scatter(MLR_reg.predict(X_test), MLR_reg.predict(X_test) - y_test,
color = "blue", s = 10, label = 'Test_data')
plt.hlines(y = 0, xmin = 0, xmax = 50, color = 'red', linewidth =
1.25)
plt.legend(loc = 'upper right')
plt.title("Residual errors(eo)")
plt.show()
We will get the following output for the preceding Python
program.
Output:

--- Strana 117 ---
Coeﬃcients:
[-7.95572889e-02  7.11808367e-02  5.82382970e-02  1.48237233e+00
-1.67360287e+01  2.95000985e+00  2.33290549e-02 -1.35721280e+00
3.13822151e-01 -1.16929875e-02 -8.07436236e-01  6.67075368e-03
-6.71019667e-01]
Variance score: 0.7325323805669589
Figure 2.5: Multiple Linear Regression

--- Strana 118 ---
Logistic regression
Logistic regression, a supervised learning classiﬁcation algorithm,
predicts the probability of a dependent variable. Being a
classiﬁcation algorithm, the dependent or target variable can have
two possible classes (1 or 0). Here, 1 stands for success/yes and
0 stands for failure or no. In simple words, the target variable is
binary in nature. LR is one of the simplest machine learning
algorithms, which can be used for various classiﬁcation problems
like diabetes prediction, cancer detection, spam detection, and so
on.
In the following example, we will implement logistic regression on
digit datasets, which can be downloaded from
Implementing logistic regression algorithm in Python:
#Importing necessary packages
%matplotlib inline
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
#Downloading the digit dataset
from sklearn.datasets import load_digits

--- Strana 119 ---
digits_dataset = load_digits()
# Printing total images and labels in the dataset
print(digits_dataset.data.shape)
print(digits_dataset.target.shape)
(1797, 64)
(1797,)
The preceding output shows that there are 1797 images (8 by 8
images for a dimensionality of 64) and 1797 labels (integers from
0 to 9).
#Let’s have a look at the training data
plt.ﬁgure(ﬁgsize=(20,4))
for index, (image, label) in enumerate(zip(digits.data[0:10],
digits.target[0:10])):
plt.subplot(1, 10, index + 1)
plt.imshow(np.reshape(image, (8,8)), cmap=plt.cm.gray)
plt.title('Training: %i\n' % label, fontsize = 20)
Figure 2.6: Training data (0-9 digits) for Logistic Regression

--- Strana 120 ---
#Splitting the dataset into training and testing data set
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
x_train, x_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(digits.data,
digits.target, test_size=0.30, random_state=0) #70% data for
Training and 30% Data for Testing
#Import the LogisticRegression class from sklearn and use the ﬁt
method to train the model
from sklearn.linear_model import LogisticRegression
logRegression = LogisticRegression()
logRegression.ﬁt(x_train, y_train)
#Predicting for images
logRegression.predict(x_test[0].reshape(1,-1))
logRegression.predict(x_test[0:10])
y_pred = logRegression.predict(x_test)
#Calculating performance metrics (Confusion matrix, Classiﬁcation
Report and Accuracy).
from sklearn.metrics import classiﬁcation_report, confusion_matrix,
accuracy_score
print('Confusion Matrix:-\n', confusion_matrix(y_test, y_pred))
print('Classiﬁcation Report:-\n', classiﬁcation_report(y_test, y_pred))
print('Accuracy:-\n',accuracy_score(y_test,y_pred))

--- Strana 121 ---
We will get the following output for the preceding Python
program:
Output:
Confusion Matrix:-
[[45  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0]
[0 47  0  0  0  0  2  0  3  0]
[0  0 51  2  0  0  0  0  0  0]
[0  0  1 52  0  0  0  0  0  1]
[0  0  0  0 48  0  0  0  0  0]
[0  1  0  0  0 55  1  0  0  0]
[0  1  0  0  0  0 59  0  0  0]
[0  1  0  1  1  0  0 50  0  0]
[0  3  1  0  0  0  0  0 55  2]
[0  0  0  1  0  1  0  0  2 53]]
Classiﬁcation Report:-
              precision    recall  f1-score   support
          0       1.00      1.00      1.00        45
          1       0.89      0.90      0.90        52
          2       0.96      0.96      0.96        53
          3       0.93      0.96      0.95        54
          4       0.98      1.00      0.99        48
          5       0.98      0.96      0.97        57
          6       0.95      0.98      0.97        60
          7       1.00      0.94      0.97        53
          8       0.92      0.90      0.91        61
          9       0.95      0.93      0.94        57
   accuracy                           0.95       540

--- Strana 122 ---
  macro avg       0.96      0.96      0.96       540
weighted avg       0.95      0.95      0.95       540
Accuracy:-
0.9537037037037037
The preceding output that shows our model gives 95.37 %
accuracy.

--- Strana 123 ---
Decision tree algorithm
Decision trees are the most powerful supervised learning
classiﬁcation algorithm. It works based on a tree that has the
following two main entities:
Decision Where the data is split.
Where we get the output.
Let’s look at the following binary tree that predicts whether a
person is ﬁt or not. In order to predict this, we need to provide
various information like eating habits, age of the person exercise
habits, and so on.

--- Strana 124 ---
Figure 2.7: Decision Tree
Implementing decision tree algorithm in Python:
Let’s see how we can implement a Decision Tree Classiﬁer in the
Python programming language. For this, we are going to use the
Pima Indians Diabetes dataset. You can download it from
https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/diabetes and save it to your
system.
#Importing necessary packages
import pandas as pd
from sklearn.tree import DecisionTreeClassiﬁer
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
#Download the Pima-Indians-Diabetes dataset and read it using
Pandas as follows
Data_column_names = ['pregnant', 'glucose', 'bp', 'skin', 'insulin',
'bmi', 'pedigree', 'age', 'label']
Dataset_pima_diabetes = pd.read_csv(r"C:\Users\Desktop\pima-
indians-diabetes.csv", header=None, names= Data_column_names)
#With the help of following script, you can look at the dataset
Dataset_pima_diabetes.head()

--- Strana 125 ---
Figure 2.8: Pima-Indians Dataset
#Splitting the dataset in features and target variables
feature_columns = ['pregnant', 'insulin','bmi',
'age','glucose','bp','pedigree','skin']
#Features
X = Dataset_pima_diabetes[feature_columns]
#Target variable
y = Dataset_pima_diabetes.label
#Splitting the dataset for training and testing purpose. Here we
are splitting the dataset into 80% training data and 20% of

--- Strana 126 ---
testing data
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.2,
random_state=1)
#Train the model. We are using DecisionTreeClassiﬁer() class of
Scikit-learn
DT_classiﬁer = DecisionTreeClassiﬁer()
DT_classiﬁer = DT_classiﬁer.ﬁt(X_train,y_train)
#Make predictions from trained model
y_pred = DT_classiﬁer.predict(X_test)
#Calculating performance metrics (Confusion matrix, Classiﬁcation
Report and Accuracy) of our decision tree classiﬁer
from sklearn.metrics import classiﬁcation_report, confusion_matrix,
accuracy_score
print('Confusion Matrix:-\n', confusion_matrix(y_test, y_pred))
print('Classiﬁcation Report:-\n', classiﬁcation_report(y_test, y_pred))
print('Accuracy:-\n',accuracy_score(y_test,y_pred))
We will get the following output for the preceding Python
program:
Output:
Confusion Matrix:-

--- Strana 127 ---
[[78 21]
[25 30]]
Classiﬁcation Report:-
               precision    recall  f1-score   support
           0       0.76      0.79      0.77        99
           1       0.59      0.55      0.57        55
    accuracy                           0.70       154
   macro avg       0.67      0.67      0.67       154
weighted avg       0.70      0.70      0.70       154
Accuracy:-
0.7012987012987013
You can see that the accuracy of our Decision tree classiﬁer is
around 70%.
With the help of the following code, we can also visualize the
decision tree:
#Visualizing our decision tree
import graphviz
from sklearn import tree
dot_data =
tree.export_graphviz(DT_classiﬁer,out_ﬁle=None,feature_names=featur
e_columns,class_names=True)
graph = graphviz.Source(dot_data)
graph.render("DTVisualize",view=True)

--- Strana 128 ---
As output, the preceding code will generate a PDF ﬁle named
DTVisualize.pdf having the decision tree of the Pima-Indians-
diabetes dataset. We set the view parameter in a graph.render() to
so that it will open the ﬁle as well. If you do not want it to
open the ﬁle automatically, you can also set it to ‘False’.
Output:
'DTVisualize.pdf'

--- Strana 129 ---
Random forest
Random forest, a supervised machine learning classiﬁcation
algorithm, creates decision trees on data samples, and after
getting the prediction from each of them, it selects the best
solution by means of voting. It reduces overﬁtting by averaging
the result, that’s why we get better results as compared with
using a single decision tree. The following ﬁgure illustrates the
working of the Random Forest algorithm:

--- Strana 130 ---
Figure 2.9: Working of Random Forest Algorithm
The Random forest starts with the selection of random samples
from the dataset. It then constructs a decision tree for every
sample and gets the prediction result from all of them. Once we
get the predictions, it votes among them and selects the most
voted prediction result as the ﬁnal predicted result.
Implementing Random forest algorithm in Python:

--- Strana 131 ---
In the following example, we will implement the Random Forest
algorithm on the same dataset, that is, the Pima Indians Diabetes
dataset, on which we implemented the Decision Tree Classiﬁer.
Let’s implement it and see the variation in the accuracy result:
#Importing necessary packages
import pandas as pd
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
#Download the Pima-IndianDiabetes dataset and read it using
Pandas as follows
Data_column_names = ['pregnant', 'glucose', 'bp', 'skin', 'insulin',
'bmi', 'pedigree', 'age', 'label']
Dataset_pima_diabetes = pd.read_csv(r"C:\Users\Desktop\pima-
indians-diabetes.csv", header=None, names= Data_column_names)
#Splitting the dataset in features and target variables
feature_columns = ['pregnant', 'insulin','bmi',
'age','glucose','bp','pedigree','skin']
# Features
X = Dataset_pima_diabetes[feature_columns]
# Target variable
y = Dataset_pima_diabetes.label

--- Strana 132 ---
#Splitting the dataset for training and testing purpose. Here we
are splitting the dataset into 80% training data and 20% of
testing data
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.2,
random_state=1)
#Train the model. We are using RandomForestClassiﬁer() class of
Scikit-learn
RF_classiﬁer = DecisionTreeClassiﬁer()
RF_classiﬁer = RF_classiﬁer.ﬁt(X_train,y_train)
#Make predictions from trained model
y_pred = RF_classiﬁer.predict(X_test)
#Calculating performance metrics (Confusion matrix, Classiﬁcation
Report and Accuracy) of our decision tree classiﬁer
from sklearn.metrics import classiﬁcation_report, confusion_matrix,
accuracy_score
print('Confusion Matrix:-\n', confusion_matrix(y_test, y_pred))
print('Classiﬁcation Report:-\n', classiﬁcation_report(y_test, y_pred))
print('Accuracy:-\n',accuracy_score(y_test,y_pred))
We will get the following output for the preceding Python
program:

--- Strana 133 ---
Output:
Confusion Matrix:-
[[89 10]
[24 31]]
Classiﬁcation Report:-
             precision    recall  f1-score   support
         0       0.79      0.90      0.84        99
         1       0.76      0.56      0.65        55
  accuracy                           0.78       154
macro avg       0.77      0.73      0.74       154
weighted avg       0.78      0.78      0.77       154
Accuracy:-
0.7792207792207793
You can see the accuracy of our random forest classiﬁer is around
78%, which is around 8% higher than the accuracy we achieved
by the decision tree classiﬁer.

--- Strana 134 ---
Naïve Bayes algorithm
Naïve Bayes, one of the simplest supervised learning algorithms,
is a statistical classiﬁcation technique based on applying Bayes’
theorem. It assumes that all the predictors are independent of
each other, that is, the existence of a feature in a class is
independent of the existence of any other feature in a similar
class. Such kind of assumption, which is considered naïve, is
called class conditional independence.
In Bayesian classiﬁcation, our main interest is to ﬁnd the
probability of a label given some observed features, that is, the
posterior probability. Mathematically, we can express it with the
help of the Bayes theorem:
Where:
P(L|features): Posterior probability of class.
Prior probability of class.
P(features | The probability of predictor given class.

--- Strana 135 ---
The prior probability of predictor.
Naïve Bayes models for building Naïve Bayes classiﬁer in Python:
One of the most powerful Python libraries that helps in building
Naïve Bayes classiﬁer is Scikit-learn. It has the following three
Naïve Bayes models:
Gaussian Naïve It assumes that the data from each label is drawn
from a simple Gaussian distribution. Gaussian distribution (also
known as the normal distribution) is a probability distribution,
which is symmetric about the mean. In graph form, it will appear
as a bell curve, which shows that the data near the mean are
more frequently occurs than the data which is far from the mean.
Multinomial Naïve It assumes that the data from each label is
drawn from a simple multinomial distribution. Multinomial Naïve
Bayes is appropriate for the features representing discrete counts.
Bernoulli Naïve It assumes the features to be binary, that is, 0s
and 1s. For example, one of the best applications of Bernoulli
Naïve Bayes is test classiﬁcation with the Bag of Words model.
Implementing Naïve Bayes classiﬁer with binary labels (single
feature):
In the case of a single feature, the Naïve Bayes classiﬁer
calculates the probability of an event with the help of the
following steps:

--- Strana 136 ---
First, the Naïve Bayes classiﬁer calculates the prior probability for
the given class labels.
Second, it ﬁnds likelihood probability with each attribute for each
class.
Once it calculates prior and likelihood probabilities, it puts the
values in the Bayes formula and calculates the posterior
probability.
Finally, it will check which class has a higher probability.
For this example, we are using a dummy dataset having the
following three columns:
Weather
Temperature
Play
Here Weather and Temperature are the features and Play is the
label.
#Importing necessary packages

--- Strana 137 ---
from sklearn import preprocessing #LabelEncoder
from sklearn.naive_bayes import GaussianNB #Gaussian Naive
Bayes model
#Assigning features and label variables to the columns of our
dataset
weather=['Sunny','Sunny','Overcast','Rainy','Rainy','Overcast','Sunny',
'Sunny','Rainy','Overcast','Rainy']
temp=['Hot','Hot','Hot','Mild','Cool','Cool','Mild','Cool','Mild','Mild','Mild']
play=['N','N','Y','Y','N','N','Y','Y','Y','Y','Y']
#Creating Label Encoder
Lbl_encoder = preprocessing.LabelEncoder()
# Convert string labels into numbers
encode_weatherdata= Lbl_encoder.ﬁt_transform(weather)
encode_temperaturedata= Lbl_encoder.ﬁt_transform(temp)
encode_labeldata= Lbl_encoder.ﬁt_transform(play)
# Printing encoded data
print (“Encoded Weather Data is:”, encode_weatherdata)
print (“Encoded Temperature Data is:”, encode_temperaturedata)
print (“Encoded Label Data is:”, encode_labeldata)
# Combining both the features in a single list of tuples
combn_features=tuple(zip(encode_weatherdata,
encode_temperaturedata))

--- Strana 138 ---
print (“Combined features in a single list of tuples:”,
combn_features)
#Generating a Gaussian Classiﬁer
NB_model = GaussianNB()
# Training our model
NB_model.ﬁt(combn_features, encode_labeldata)
#Predicting the Output
predicted= NB_model.predict([[1,0]]) # 1:-Rainy, 0:-Cool
print ("Predicted Value:", predicted)
We will get the following output for the preceding Python
program.
Output:
Encoded Weather Data is: [2 2 0 1 1 0 2 2 1 0 1]
Encoded Temperature Data is: [1 1 1 2 0 0 2 0 2 2 2]
Encoded Label Data is: [0 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 1 1 1]
Combined features in a single list of tuples is: ((2, 1), (2, 1), (0,
1), (1, 2), (1, 0), (0, 0), (2, 2), (2, 0), (1, 2), (0, 2), (1, 2))
Predicted Value: [0]
Implementing Naïve Bayes classiﬁer with multiple labels:

--- Strana 139 ---
In this example, we will do a multi-class classiﬁcation in Naïve
Bayes. Such kind of classiﬁcation is used in cases where one
needs to classify, for example, a news article about technology,
cricket, politics, or the economy.
In the model-building part, we can use the iris-ﬂower dataset,
perhaps the best-known database to be found in pattern
recognition. You can download it from Iris-Flower Dataset
comprises four features, namely, sepal length sepal width petal
length and petal width This data has three types of iris-ﬂower:
and Here, we can build a model to classify the types of iris
ﬂower. This dataset is also available in the Scikit-learn library.
#Importing necessary packages
from sklearn import datasets # scikit-learn dataset library
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split #
train_test_split function
from sklearn.naive_bayes import GaussianNB #Gaussian Naive
Bayes model
#Loading iris-ﬂower dataset
iris_ﬂower = datasets.load_iris()
# Printing the names of the features
print ("Features: ", iris_ﬂower.feature_names)
# Printing the label type of ﬂowers
print ("Labels: ", iris_ﬂower.target_names)

--- Strana 140 ---
# Printing data shape
iris_ﬂower.data.shape
# Printing the iris-ﬂower data features (top 10 records)
print (iris_ﬂower.data[0:10])
# Printing the iris-ﬂower labels (0:setosa, 1:versicolor, 2:virginica)
print (iris_ﬂower.target)
# Splitting iris-dataset into training set and test set
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(iris_ﬂower.data,
iris_ﬂower.target, test_size=0.3,random_state=115) # 70% data for
training and 30% data for testing purpose
#Generating a Gaussian Classiﬁer
NB_iris = GaussianNB()
#Training the classiﬁer model using the training sets
NB_iris.ﬁt(X_train, y_train)
#Predicting the response for testing dataset
y_pred = NB_iris.predict(X_test)
#Importing the scikit-learn metrics module for calculating the
accuracy
from sklearn import metrics
print("Accuracy:",metrics.accuracy_score(y_test, y_pred))

--- Strana 141 ---
We will get the following output for the preceding Python
program.
Output:
Features: ['sepal length (cm)', 'sepal width (cm)', 'petal length
(cm)', 'petal width (cm)']
Labels: ['setosa' 'versicolor' 'virginica']
(150, 4)
[[5.1 3.5 1.4 0.2]
[4.9 3. 1.4 0.2]
[4.7 3.2 1.3 0.2]
[4.6 3.1 1.5 0.2]
[5. 3.6 1.4 0.2]
[5.4 3.9 1.7 0.4]
[4.6 3.4 1.4 0.3]
[5. 3.4 1.5 0.2]
[4.4 2.9 1.4 0.2]
[4.9 3.1 1.5 0.1]]
Accuracy: 0.9333333333333333
The preceding output shows that the accuracy of our classiﬁer is
around 93%.

--- Strana 142 ---
Support Vector Machine (SVM)
A Support Vector Machine a supervised ML classiﬁcation
algorithm, is a powerful yet ﬂexible algorithm. They were ﬁrst
introduced in the 1960s, but in the 1990s, they also got reﬁned.
SVM can handle multiple continuous and categorical variables.
That’s the reason, SVMs are becoming extremely popular
nowadays.
Working of SVM algorithm
An SVM model is basically a representation of numerous classes
in a hyperplane, generated iteratively by SVM, in a
multidimensional space. One of the most important goals of SVM
is to ﬁnd a Maximum Marginal Hyperplane and for this, it divides
the datasets into classes. This is illustrated in the following ﬁgure:

--- Strana 143 ---
Figure 2.10: Support Vector Machine
Let’s have a look at some of the important points in SVM:
Support Support vectors are the data points that are closest to
the hyperplane.
As shown in the preceding ﬁgure, it is the gap between two lines
on the closest data points of diﬀerent classes. We can calculate
margins as the perpendicular distance from the line to the SVs
(support vectors).
It is the space or decision plane divided between a set of objects
having diﬀerent classes.

--- Strana 144 ---
Implementing SVM algorithm in Python:
Let’s see how we can implement SVM in Python programming
language. For this, we are going to generate a sample dataset,
from having linearly separable data.
#Importing necessary packages
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from scipy import stats
import seaborn as sns; sns.set()
#Generating sample dataset having linearly separable data
from sklearn.datasets.samples_generator import make_blobs
X_data, y_data = make_blobs(n_samples=500, centers=2,
random_state=0, cluster_std=0.30)
plt.scatter(X_data[:, 0], X_data[:, 1], c=y_data, s=30, cmap='winter');

--- Strana 145 ---
Figure 2.11: Sample Dataset having linearly separable dataset
The preceding output is having sample dataset with 500 samples
and 2 clusters.
# Implementing discriminative classiﬁcation i.e. Dividing the
classes from each other
xﬁt = np.linspace(-1, 3.5)
plt.scatter(X_data[:, 0], X_data[:, 1], c=y_data, s=30, cmap='winter')
for m, b in [(1, 0.65), (0.5, 1.6), (-0.2, 2.9)]:
plt.plot(xﬁt, m * xﬁt + b, '-k')
plt.xlim(-1, 3.5);

--- Strana 146 ---
Figure 2.12: Discriminative Classiﬁcation
# In order to ﬁnd MMH, drawing a margin of some width, up to
the nearest point, around each line
xﬁt = np.linspace(-1, 3.5)
plt.scatter(X_data[:, 0], X_data[:, 1], c=y_data, s=30, cmap='winter')
for m, b, d in [(1, 0.65, 0.33), (0.5, 1.6, 0.55), (-0.2, 2.9, 0.2)]:
yﬁt = m * xﬁt + b
plt.plot(xﬁt, yﬁt, '-k')
plt.ﬁll_between(xﬁt, yﬁt - d, yﬁt + d, edgecolor='none',
color='#AAAAAA', alpha=0.4)
plt.xlim(-1, 3.5);

--- Strana 147 ---
Figure 2.13: Discriminative Classiﬁcation with margin of width
#Training the algorithm. Calling ﬁt method of SVC class
from sklearn.svm import SVC # "Support vector classiﬁer"
model = SVC(kernel='linear')
model.ﬁt(X_data, y_data)
#Plotting the decision function for 2-dimensional SVC
def decision_function(model, ax=None, plot_support=True):
if ax is None:
ax = plt.gca()
xlim = ax.get_xlim()
ylim = ax.get_ylim()

--- Strana 148 ---
x = np.linspace(xlim[0], xlim[1], 30)
y = np.linspace(ylim[0], ylim[1], 30)
Y, X = np.meshgrid(y, x)
xy = np.vstack([X.ravel(), Y.ravel()]).T
P = model.decision_function(xy).reshape(X.shape)
ax.contour(X, Y, P, colors='k',
levels=[-1, 0, 1], alpha=0.5,
linestyles=['--', '-', '--'])
if plot_support:
ax.scatter(model.support_vectors_[:, 0],
model.support_vectors_[:, 1],
s=400, linewidth=2, facecolors='none');
ax.set_xlim(xlim)
ax.set_ylim(ylim)
plt.scatter(X_data[:, 0], X_data[:, 1], c=y_data, s=30, cmap='winter')
decision_function(model);

--- Strana 149 ---
Figure 2.14: Decision function for 2-D SVC
# Getting the support vectors points
model.support_vectors_
array([[1.2591839, 3.48188418],
[1.62869156, 1.49705048],
[2.19960206, 1.72547019]])
Kernel SVM
In the preceding example, we have implemented SVM that ﬁnds
decision boundaries for linearly separable data. But, in the case of
non-linearly separable data, the preceding SVM algorithm cannot
be used. For that, we need to use a modiﬁed version of SVM

--- Strana 150 ---
called Kernel SVM. In the following implementation example, we
will be using diﬀerent kernels, polynomial, Radial Basis Function
and sigmoid on the Iris-ﬂower dataset.
Implementing Kernel SVM in Python:
#Importing necessary packages
from sklearn import datasets # scikit-learn dataset library
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split #
train_test_split function
#Loading iris-ﬂower dataset
iris_ﬂower = datasets.load_iris()
# Printing the names of the features
print ("Features: ", iris_ﬂower.feature_names)
# Printing the label type of ﬂowers
print ("Labels: ", iris_ﬂower.target_names)
# Printing data shape
iris_ﬂower.data.shape
# Printing the iris-ﬂower data features (top 10 records)
print (iris_ﬂower.data[0:10])
# Printing the iris-ﬂower labels (0:setosa, 1:versicolor, 2:virginica)
print (iris_ﬂower.target)

--- Strana 151 ---
# Splitting iris-dataset into training set and test set
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(iris_ﬂower.data,
iris_ﬂower.target, test_size=0.3,random_state=115) # 70% data for
training and 30% data for testing purpose
# Training the algorithm by using SVC class ﬁt method. Here we
are using Polynomial kernel
from sklearn.svm import SVC
svm_K_classiﬁer = SVC(kernel='poly', degree=8)
svm_K_classiﬁer.ﬁt(X_train, y_train)
#Predicting the response for testing dataset
y_pred = svm_K_classiﬁer.predict(X_test)
# Importing the scikit-learn classiﬁcation_report and
confusion_matrix module for evaluating the algorithm
from sklearn.metrics import classiﬁcation_report, confusion_matrix
print('Confusion Matrix:\n', confusion_matrix(y_test,y_pred))
print('Classiﬁcation Report:\n',classiﬁcation_report(y_test,y_pred))
We will get the following output for the preceding Python
program:
Output:
Confusion Matrix:
[[18 0 0]
[0 10 0]
[0 3 14]]

--- Strana 152 ---
Classiﬁcation Report:
              precision    recall  f1-score   support
          0       1.00      1.00      1.00        18
          1       0.77      1.00      0.87        10
          2       1.00      0.82      0.90        17
   accuracy                           0.93        45
  macro avg       0.92      0.94      0.92        45
weighted avg       0.95      0.93      0.93        45
Similarly, we can train the algorithm by using the Radial Basis
Function kernel:
# Training the algorithm by using SVC class ﬁt method. Here we
are using rbf kernel
from sklearn.svm import SVC
svm_K_classiﬁer = SVC(kernel='rbf')
svm_K_classiﬁer.ﬁt(X_train, y_train)
#Predicting the response for testing dataset
y_pred = svm_K_classiﬁer.predict(X_test)
# Importing the scikit-learn classiﬁcation_report and
confusion_matrix module for evaluating the algorithm
from sklearn.metrics import classiﬁcation_report, confusion_matrix
print('Confusion Matrix:\n', confusion_matrix(y_test,y_pred))
print('Classiﬁcation Report:\n',classiﬁcation_report(y_test,y_pred))

--- Strana 153 ---
We will get the following output for the preceding Python
program:
Output:
Confusion Matrix:
[[18 0 0]
[0 10 0]
[0 2 15]]
Classiﬁcation Report:
              precision    recall  f1-score   support
          0       1.00      1.00      1.00        18
          1       0.83      1.00      0.91        10
          2       1.00      0.88      0.94        17
   accuracy                           0.96        45
  macro avg       0.94      0.96      0.95        45
weighted avg       0.96      0.96      0.96        45
Now, train the algorithm by using Sigmoid kernel:
# Training the algorithm by using SVC class ﬁt method. Here we
are using rbf kernel
from sklearn.svm import SVC
svm_K_classiﬁer = SVC(kernel='sigmoid')
svm_K_classiﬁer.ﬁt(X_train, y_train)
#Predicting the response for testing dataset
y_pred = svm_K_classiﬁer.predict(X_test)

--- Strana 154 ---
# Importing the scikit-learn classiﬁcation_report and
confusion_matrix module for evaluating the algorithm
from sklearn.metrics import classiﬁcation_report, confusion_matrix
print('Confusion Matrix:\n', confusion_matrix(y_test,y_pred))
print('Classiﬁcation Report:\n',classiﬁcation_report(y_test,y_pred))
We will get the following output for the preceding Python
program:
Output:
Confusion Matrix:
[[0 18 0]
[0 10 0]
[0 17 0]]
Classiﬁcation Report:
              precision    recall  f1-score   support
          0       0.00      0.00      0.00        18
          1       0.22      1.00      0.36        10
          2       0.00      0.00      0.00        17
   accuracy                           0.22        45
  macro avg       0.07      0.33      0.12        45
weighted avg       0.05      0.22      0.08        45

--- Strana 155 ---
k-Nearest Neighbor (kNN)
This is a supervised machine learning algorithm for classiﬁcation
and regression but mainly used for classiﬁcation. To predict the
values of new data points, KNN uses feature similarity. The new
data points will be assigned a value, which is based on how
closely it matches the points in the training set. Let’s understand
its working in the following steps:
First, we need to provide KNN the dataset, that is, the training
and test data.
Second, we must provide the value of k (it can be any integer),
that is, the nearest data points to the KNN algorithm.
Finally, for every point in the test data, the KNN algorithm will do
the calculation as follows:
It calculates the distance between test data and each row of
training data. It can use any of the methods, Euclidean,
Manhattan, or Hamming distance. But it generally uses the
Euclidean function. Let’s understand these distances:
Euclidean It calculates the distance between two real-valued
vectors. Mostly we use it to calculate the distance between two
rows of data having numerical values (ﬂoating or integer values).
The following is the formula to calculate Euclidean distance:

--- Strana 156 ---
Here:
r and s are the two points in Euclidean
and are Euclidean vectors.
n denotes the
Hamming It calculates the distance between two binary vectors.
Mostly we ﬁnd the binary strings when we use one-hot encoding
on categorical columns of data. In one-hot encoding, the integer
variable is removed and a new binary variable will be added for
each unique integer value. For example, if a column had the
categories say and We might one-hot encode each example as a
bitstring with one bit for each column as follows:
Length = [1, 0, 0]
Width = [0, 1, 0]
Breadth = [0, 0, 1]

--- Strana 157 ---
The Hamming distance between any of the preceding two
categories mentioned can be calculated as the sum or the average
number of bit diﬀerences between the two binary strings. We can
see that the Hamming diﬀerence between length and width
categories is about 2/3 and 0.666 because 2 out of 3 positions
are diﬀerent.
Manhattan The Manhattan distance, also known as the City Block
distance, is calculated as the sum of absolute diﬀerences between
the two vectors. It is mostly used for the vectors that describe
objects on a uniform grid such as a city block or chessboard. The
following is the generalized formula to calculate Manhattan
distance in n-dimensional space:
Here,
and are data points.
n denotes the
Once calculated the distance, KNN now sorts the distance values
in ascending order and chooses the top K rows from this sorted
array.
Now, based on the most frequent class of these rows, a class to
the test point will be assigned.

--- Strana 158 ---
Implementing KNN Classiﬁer in Python
In this example, we will be implementing the KNN classiﬁer in
Python. We will be using the Iris-Flower dataset:
#Importing necessary packages
import numpy as np
import pandas as pd
#Downloading the Iris-ﬂower dataset
path = https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/machine-learning-
databases/iris/iris.data
# Assigning column names to the dataset
column_names = ['sepal-length', 'sepal-width', 'petal-length', 'petal-
width', 'Class']
# Reading dataset to Pandas dataframes
iris_data = pd.read_csv(path, names= column_names)
# Data preprocessing
X = iris_data.iloc[:, :-1].values
y = iris_data.iloc[:, 4].values
# Splitting the dataset into train and test data
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.25)
# 75% data for training and 25% data for testing purpose

--- Strana 159 ---
# Data scaling for sending scaled data to the train the model
from sklearn.preprocessing import StandardScaler
scaler = StandardScaler()
scaler.ﬁt(X_train)
X_train = scaler.transform(X_train)
X_test = scaler.transform(X_test)
# Training the algorithm by using KNeighborsClassiﬁer class ﬁt
method
from sklearn.neighbors import KNeighborsClassiﬁer
Knn_classiﬁer = KNeighborsClassiﬁer(n_neighbors=8)
Knn_classiﬁer.ﬁt(X_train, y_train)
#Predicting the response for testing dataset
y_pred = Knn_classiﬁer.predict(X_test)
# Importing the scikit-learn classiﬁcation_report and
confusion_matrix module for evaluating the algorithm
from sklearn.metrics import classiﬁcation_report, confusion_matrix
print('Confusion Matrix:\n', confusion_matrix(y_test,y_pred))
print('Classiﬁcation Report:\n',classiﬁcation_report(y_test,y_pred))
We will get the following output for the preceding Python
program.
Output:
Confusion Matrix:
[[12 0 0]

--- Strana 160 ---
[0 16 0]
[0 2 8]]
Classiﬁcation Report:
              precision    recall  f1-score   support
   Iris-setosa       1.00      1.00      1.00        12
Iris-versicolor       0.89      1.00      0.94        16
Iris-virginica       1.00      0.80      0.89        10
      accuracy                           0.95        38
     macro avg       0.96      0.93      0.94        38
  weighted avg       0.95      0.95      0.95        38
Implementing KNN regressor in Python
In this example, we will implement the KNN regressor in Python.
The steps are almost same as we used while implementing the
KNN classiﬁer in Python.
#Importing necessary packages
import numpy as np
from sklearn.datasets import load_iris
iris_data = load_iris()
X = iris_data.data[:, :4]
y = iris_data.target
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.25)
from sklearn.preprocessing import StandardScaler
scaler = StandardScaler()
scaler.ﬁt(X_train)
X_train = scaler.transform(X_train)

--- Strana 161 ---
X_test = scaler.transform(X_test)
#This is the only change i.e. we need to import
KNeighborRegressor class and train the model
from sklearn.neighbors import KNeighborsRegressor
knn_regressor = KNeighborsRegressor(n_neighbors=5)
knn_regressor.ﬁt(X_train, y_train)
# Printing the Mean Square Error
print ("The MSE is:",format(np.power(y-
knn_regressor.predict(X),4).mean()))
We will get the following output for the preceding Python
program.
Output:
The MSE is: 5.666666666666667

--- Strana 162 ---
K-Means clustering
K-means clustering, one of the simplest unsupervised machine
learning algorithms, groups similar data points together and
discovers underlying patterns. k in K-means refers to the ﬁxed
number of clusters in a dataset. While computing the centroids,
the k-means algorithm assigns data points in such a manner that
the sum of the squared distance between the data points and
centroid would be minimum.
The way the k-means clustering algorithm works is shown in the
following steps:
Specify the number of clusters, that is,
It shuﬄes the dataset to initialize centroids and then randomly
selects k data points for the centroids.
Next, it keeps iterating the following until it ﬁnds the optimal
centroid, that is, there is no change to the centroids:
First, it calculates the sum of squared distance between data
points and centroids.
Second, it assigns each data point to the nearest cluster.

--- Strana 163 ---
Finally, it takes the average of all data points of clusters to
compute the centroids for those clusters.
Implementing k-means clustering in Python
In this example, we will implement k-means clustering on the 2-
dimensional dataset sample, which we generated on 700 sample
values, having 5 clusters.
#Importing necessary packages
%matplotlib inline
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import seaborn as sns; sns.set()
import numpy as np
from sklearn.cluster import KMeans
#Generating 2-dimensional dataset having 5 blobs
from sklearn.datasets.samples_generator import make_blobs
X, y_true = make_blobs(n_samples=700, centers=5, cluster_std=0.8)
#Let’s visualize our dataset
plt.scatter(X[:, 0], X[:, 1], s=10);
plt.show()

--- Strana 164 ---
Figure 2.15: 2-D Data having 5-blobs
#Creating an object of k-means and providing number of clusters
kmeans = KMeans(n_clusters=5)
#Train the model by using ﬁt method of k-means() class
kmeans.ﬁt(X)
# do the predictions
y_kmeans = kmeans.predict(X)
# Plotting and visualizing cluster’s centers picked by k-means
estimators
plt.scatter(X[:, 0], X[:, 1], c=y_kmeans, s=10, cmap='rainbow')
centers = kmeans.cluster_centers_
plt.scatter(centers[:, 0], centers[:, 1], c='black');

--- Strana 165 ---
plt.show()
Figure 2.16: Cluster centers picked by k-means estimators

--- Strana 166 ---
Conclusion
In this chapter, we learned the basics of Machine Learning and
explored various components associated with it. We also
understood diﬀerent learning styles, namely, supervised,
unsupervised and semi-supervised, and reinforcement used in
machine learning algorithms. We learned that the main objective
of supervised learning, composed of subﬁelds such as
classiﬁcation and regression, is to learn an association between
input training data and corresponding labels. While classiﬁcation
models allow us to predict categorical output responses for the
given input data, we can use the regression model to predict
continuous numerical output responses for the given input data.
We understood that the unsupervised learning methods do not
require any pre-labeled training data and it learns patterns and
relationships from given raw data without any supervision.
Classiﬁcation, Dimensionality Reduction, Anomaly Detection, and
Association are the subﬁelds of unsupervised learning. We also
explored that semi-supervised machine learning methods neither
fully supervised nor fully unsupervised use a small amount of pre-
labeled annotated data and lots of unlabeled data for training
purposes. In reinforcement learning, the agent interacts with the
environment and acts according to the current state of the
environment.

--- Strana 167 ---
We described some popular machine learning algorithms such as
Linear Regression, Logistic Regression, Decision Tree, Random
Forest, k-Nearest Neighbor k-means clustering, Naïve Bayes, and
Support Vector Machine Along with their descriptions, these
algorithms have also been implemented using the Scikit-learn
Python library for machine learning. We implemented these
algorithms in Jupyter Notebook.
We went over the roadmap for applying machine learning to real-
world problems, which we will use as a foundation of deeper
discussions and hands-on examples in the upcoming chapters.

--- Strana 168 ---
Questions
What is Machine Learning (ML)? What are the various
components a machine learning algorithm has?
Explain diﬀerent learning styles in the machine learning algorithms.
What is Logistic Regression? Implement it in the Python
programming language.
What is Multiple Linear Regression? How can we implement it in
the Python programming language?
What is the diﬀerence between the Decision Tree and the Random
Forest algorithm? Find their accuracy after implementing both on
the same dataset in the Python programming language.
Brieﬂy explain the working of k-nearest neighbor (KNN) and K-
means clustering algorithm.
______________________________
1 Tom M Mitchell et al. “Machine learning. 1997”. In: Burr Ridge,
IL: McGraw Hill 45.37 (1997), pp. 870–877.

--- Strana 169 ---
CHAPTER 3
Classiﬁcation and Regression Using Supervised Learning

--- Strana 170 ---
Introduction
Artiﬁcial intelligence, especially Machine Learning is continuously
growing and set to be the most transformative technology existing
over the next decade. Self-driving vehicles, fraud detection systems,
tumor detection, and instant machine translation are a few of the
advancements and applications of ML that have already started
having an impact on society. Machine learning algorithms started
stepping into every aspect of our lives too. They have already
become a part of our daily routines. From voice-enabled personal
assistants like Alexa, Siri, Google Assistant, and Cortana to
optimized music, movies, and news recommendations to
suggestive searches, everything we use is directly or indirectly
aﬀected by ML.
In the previous chapter, you got a brief overview of ML and
various learning styles like supervised, unsupervised, semi-
supervised, and reinforcement in ML algorithms. This chapter
provides details about supervised ML tasks: Classiﬁcation and
Regression. It also addresses various steps to build a Classiﬁer
and Regressor using the Python programming language. You will
also get a glimpse of the best evaluation metrics to check the
performance of both classiﬁcation and regression algorithms.

--- Strana 171 ---
Structure
In this chapter, we will discuss the following topics:
Classiﬁcation
Various steps to build a classiﬁer using Python
Performance metrics for classiﬁcation
Confusion matrix
Accuracy
Precision
Recall
Speciﬁcity
F1 score
Regression
Various steps to build a regressor using Python

--- Strana 172 ---
Performance metrics for regression
Mean Absolute Error
Mean Squared Error
R2 – the coeﬃcient of determination

--- Strana 173 ---
Objectives
After studying this chapter, you should be able to build a classiﬁer
and regressor using the Python programming language. You will
also learn about various performance metrics used to evaluate
classiﬁcation and regression models.

--- Strana 174 ---
Classiﬁcation
Classiﬁcation, a sub-ﬁeld of supervised ML, may be deﬁned as the
process of predicting classes or categorical output responses
based on the input data that is being provided. The output
depends upon the ML model’s learning in the training phase.
Categorical means unordered and discrete values; hence, the
output responses will belong to a speciﬁc discrete category.
Let’s understand it with an example of weather prediction. We will
keep it simple and try to predict the weather among two
categories, sunny or rainy. This prediction will be based on
multiple data samples that consist of the following attributes:
Humidity
Temperature
Atmospheric pressure
Precipitation
Wind
This classiﬁcation can be termed as a binary classiﬁcation problem
because there are only two distinct classes, sunny and rainy. The

--- Strana 175 ---
following ﬁgure depicts this task:
Figure 3.1: Classiﬁcation for weather prediction
The preceding example represents a binary classiﬁcation, but in
case if there are more than two distinct classes, it becomes a
multi-class classiﬁcation task. In such classiﬁcation problems, the
prediction response can be one among the probable set of
classes. For example, predicting numeric digits from scanned
handwritten images is a multi-class classiﬁcation problem because
the output class label for any image can be any digit (0–9). The
following ﬁgure will depict the diﬀerence between binary and
multi-class classiﬁcation.

--- Strana 176 ---
Figure 3.2: Binary versus multi-class classiﬁcation

--- Strana 177 ---
Various steps to build a classiﬁer using Python
In the previous section, we understood classiﬁcation with an
example. Now let us build a classiﬁer in the Python programming
language. Following are the various steps to do so:

--- Strana 178 ---
Step 1 – Import ML library
To start building a classiﬁer in Python, we need to have an ML
library. Here, by using the following Python command, we will
import – an open-source machine learning library:
import sklearn

--- Strana 179 ---
Step 2 – Import dataset
We know that to train an ML model, we always need a dataset.
In this step, we will import the sklearn’s Breast Cancer Wisconsin
Diagnostic which is widely used for classiﬁcation purposes and
containing 569 instances and information on 30 features. The
classiﬁcation labels used in this dataset are, namely, malignant or
benign. We can use the following command to import it from
Scikit-learn:
from sklearn.datasets import load_breast_cancer
Once imported, we can load the dataset in a variable name so
that we can use it throughout our program. The following is the
command to load this dataset in a variable named
data_cancer = load_breast_cancer()
Sklearn’s Breast Cancer Wisconsin Diagnostic Dataset has an
important set of information, namely, Classiﬁcation label names,
The actual labels, Feature names, and Attributes. We will give new
variables, namely, and respectively, for each of them as follows:
labelnames = data_cancer['target_names']
labels = data_cancer['target']
featurenames = data_cancer['feature_names']
features = data_cancer['data']

--- Strana 180 ---
With the help of the following command, you can print this set of
information:
print(labelnames)
Output:
['malignant' 'benign']
The preceding output shows that the dataset has two classiﬁcation
labels, namely, malignant and
print(labels)
Output:
[0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 1 0 0 1 1
1 1 0 1 0 0
1 0 1 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 1 1 1 1
0 1 1 0 1 1
1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 0
1 1 1 1 0 1
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 1 1 0 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 1 1
0 0 0 1 0

--- Strana 181 ---
1 0 1 1 1 0 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 0
0 1 1 0 0 1 1
1 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 0 1 0 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 0 0
0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1 1 1
1 0 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 1 1
0 0 0 1 1
1 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
0 0 1 0 0
0 1 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 1
1 1 1 1 1
1 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 0 0 1 0 1 1 1
1 1 0 1 1
0 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
1 1 1 0 1
1 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 0
1 0 1 0 0
1 1 1 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1]
The preceding output shows that the classiﬁcation labels are
mapped to 0 and where 0 represents malignant and 1 represents
print(featurenames)
Output:
['mean radius' 'mean texture' 'mean perimeter' 'mean area'

--- Strana 182 ---
'mean smoothness' 'mean compactness' 'mean concavity'
'mean concave points' 'mean symmetry' 'mean fractal dimension'
'radius error' 'texture error' 'perimeter error' 'area error'
'smoothness error' 'compactness error' 'concavity error'
'concave points error' 'symmetry error' 'fractal dimension error'
'worst radius' 'worst texture' 'worst perimeter' 'worst area'
'worst smoothness' 'worst compactness' 'worst concavity'
'worst concave points' 'worst symmetry' 'worst fractal dimension']
print(features)
Output:
[[1.799e+01 1.038e+01 1.228e+02 … 2.654e-01 4.601e-01 1.189e-01]
[2.057e+01 1.777e+01 1.329e+02 … 1.860e-01 2.750e-01 8.902e-02]
[1.969e+01 2.125e+01 1.300e+02 … 2.430e-01 3.613e-01 8.758e-02]
…
[1.660e+01 2.808e+01 1.083e+02 … 1.418e-01 2.218e-01 7.820e-02]
[2.060e+01 2.933e+01 1.401e+02 … 2.650e-01 4.087e-01 1.240e-01]
[7.760e+00 2.454e+01 4.792e+01 … 0.000e+00 2.871e-01 7.039e-02]]

--- Strana 183 ---
Step 3 – Organizing data-training and testing set
The accuracy of an ML model can be measured by testing that
model on new unseen data. For that purpose, it is important to
split the dataset into two parts, namely, training and testing set.
Let us see how we can divide our dataset into 70% training set
and remaining 30% into testing set:
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
train, test, train_labels, test_labels =
train_test_split(features,labels,test_size = 0.30, random_state = 0)

--- Strana 184 ---
Step 4 – Creating ML model
In the previous step, we divided our dataset into 70% training
and 30% testing set. Now let us create our ML model with the
help of the Naïve Bayes classiﬁer. The command is given as
follows:
from sklearn.naive_bayes import GaussianNB #import the Gaussian
Naïve Bayes model
NB_Gaussian = GaussianNB() #initialize the model

--- Strana 185 ---
Step 5 – Train the model
To use the previously created ML model for testing purposes, we
ﬁrst need to train the model. It can be done by using the
following ﬁt() function:
NB_Classiﬁer = NB_Gaussian.ﬁt(train, train_labels)

--- Strana 186 ---
Step 6 – Predicting test set result
In this step, let us evaluate our trained model on the test dataset
and predict the result. We will use the following function called
predictions = NB_Classiﬁer.predict(test)
For example, printing the predicted values for malignant and
benign classes:
print(predictions)
Output:
[0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 1
0 1 0 1 0 1
0 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 0
0 1 1 0 1 1
0 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 1 0 0 1 1 1 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 1
0 1 1 0 1
0 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 1 0
1 1 0 1 0
1 1 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 1 1]

--- Strana 187 ---
Step 7 – Evaluating the accuracy
Finally, we can evaluate the accuracy of our trained ML model as
follows:
from sklearn.metrics import confusion_matrix
cm_NBClassiﬁer= confusion_matrix(test_labels, predictions)
print('Confusion Matrix:',cm_NBClassiﬁer)
Output:
Confusion Matrix: [[57   6]
[  7 101]]
from sklearn.metrics import accuracy_score
print('Accuracy:',accuracy_score(test_labels,predictions))
Output:
Accuracy: 0.9239766081871345
We can see that the accuracy of our ML model is 92.40%.

--- Strana 188 ---
Lazy earning versus eager learning
In a nutshell, we can divide the previously stated classiﬁcation
process mainly into the following two steps:
Building an ML model with a given set of training tuples.
Applying that ML model to a given set of testing tuples.
And based on these steps, in the data classiﬁcation process, there
are two types of learners, namely, lazy and eager learners.
Lazy learners simply store training datasets or do only a little
processing and wait for the testing tuple to start classifying the
data. Such learners spend less time learning and more time on
data classiﬁcation. Case-based reasoning and K-nearest neighbors
are lazy learner algorithms.
On the other hand, Eager learners, when given a training dataset,
start building a classiﬁcation model without waiting to get the
testing tuple. Such learners spend more time learning and less
time on data classiﬁcation. Artiﬁcial Neural Networks Naïve Bayes,
and Decision Trees are some eager learner algorithms.

--- Strana 189 ---
Performance metrics for classiﬁcation
What do you think, our job is ﬁnished once we ﬁnish the
implementation of our ML model? No, certainly not because we
should ﬁnd out how eﬀective this model is. There are diﬀerent
evaluation metrics to check the performance of classiﬁcation
algorithms. We should choose the metrics for our ML model very
sensibly as it inﬂuences how the performance of the ML model is
measured. The following are some of the important performance
metrics to evaluate predictions for classiﬁcation problems:

--- Strana 190 ---
Confusion matrix
The confusion matrix, mainly used for classiﬁcation problems
having the output of two or more types of classes, is one of the
most intuitive metrics to ﬁnd the accuracy of your ML model. The
following ﬁgure depicts the structure of a confusion matrix:
Figure 3.3: Structure of the confusion matrix
We can see that the confusion matrix is a table having two
dimensions, namely, Actual and Predicted. These dimensions have
the values, namely, True Positives True Negatives False Positives
and False Negatives Let’s understand the terms associated with
the confusion matrix:
True Positives Both Actual class and Predicted class = 1. For
example, the case will come under TPs if someone is Diabetic (1),

--- Strana 191 ---
and the ML model also classiﬁes his/her case as Diabetic (1).
True Negatives Both Actual class and Predicted class = 0. For
example, the case will come under TNs if someone is Non-
Diabetic (0), and the ML model also classiﬁeshis/her case as
NON-Diabetic (0).
False Positives Actual class = 0 and Predicted class = 1. For
example, the case will come under FPs if someone is Non-
Diabetic (0), but the ML model classiﬁes his/her case as Diabetic
(1).
False Negatives Actual class = 1 and Predicted class = 0. For
example, the case will come under FNs if someone is Diabetic
(1), and the ML model classiﬁes his/her case as Non-Diabetic (0).
Scikit-learn ML library provides the confusion_matrix function with
the help of which we can compute the confusion matrix for the
created classiﬁcation model.

--- Strana 192 ---
Accuracy
Accuracy, one of the most common performance metrics for ML
classiﬁcation models, is the total correct predictions made divided
by all predictions made. Following is the formula to calculate the
accuracy of our classiﬁcation model:
Scikit-learn ML library provides the accuracy_score function with
the help of which we can compute the accuracy of the created
classiﬁcation model.
When to use?
Accuracy can be used as an evaluation measure for balanced
classiﬁcation problems, that is, where the target classes are not
skewed.
For example, the fruits image dataset is having 60% images of
apples and the remaining 40% images of oranges, which means
the target classes are balanced. In such cases, accuracy as a
metric for our classiﬁcation model will be a good choice.
When NOT to use Accuracy:

--- Strana 193 ---
On the other hand, accuracy as an evaluation measure is NOT
useful where the target class is very sparse.
For example, what will be the result of prediction if we will try to
predict whether an asteroid will hit the earth or not? The model
will predict NO every time and it will be 99% accurate. In this
way, the classiﬁcation ML model will be accurate and not valuable
at all.

--- Strana 194 ---
Precision
Precision is a measure that answers the following question:
How much predicted proportions are truly positive?
By using a confusion matrix, we can calculate the precision by
using the following formula:
We can see that precision tells us how precise our ML model is,
that is, how many actual positives are there out of those
predicted positives.
Precision can be used as an evaluation measure for systems
where the cost of FPs is very high. For example, in email spam
detection, FPs means that a non-spam email has been identiﬁed
as spam. So, for models like spam detection, the precision should
be high otherwise the user might lose important emails.

--- Strana 195 ---
Recall
Recall is another useful measure that answers the following
question:
How many actual positives are correctly classiﬁed?
By using a confusion matrix, we can calculate recall by using the
following formula:
For example, Recall will be 0 in an asteroid prediction problem –
if an asteroid will hit the earth or not because we never predicted
a true positive. On the other hand, Recall will be 1 if we predict 1
for every example.
Recall can be used as an evaluation measure for systems in which
our motive is to capture as many positives as possible. For
instance, the ML system predicts whether a person has cancer or
not. In such systems, we would like to detect the disease
although we are not very sure.

--- Strana 196 ---
Speciﬁcity
Speciﬁcity, the exact opposite to recall, is a measure that answers
the following question:
How many actual negatives are correctly classiﬁed?
By using a confusion matrix, we can calculate recall by using the
following formula:

--- Strana 197 ---
F1 score
F1 score, utilizing tradeoﬀ of precision versus recall, is the
harmonic mean of precision and recall. The score is a number
between 0 and 1(the best is 1 and the worst is 0) and can be
calculated with the help of the following formula:
F1 Score= 2 * (precision * recall) / (precision + recall)

--- Strana 198 ---
Figure 3.4: Precision–Recall tradeoﬀ
Our ML classiﬁer should have both good precision and a good
recall. The F1 score is having an equal relative contribution of
precision and recall hence maintains a balance between the two.
Scikit-learn ML library provides the f1_score function with the help
of which we can compute the F1 score of our classiﬁer. The
function can be imported from sklearn.metrics.

--- Strana 199 ---
Regression
Regression, a sub-ﬁeld of supervised ML, may be deﬁned as the
process of predicting continuous numeric values based on the
input data that is being provided. In simple words, the regression
task is an ML task having a value estimation as to its main
objective. Unlike classiﬁcation, which uses classes to learn the
speciﬁc relationship between independent variables, that is, inputs,
and corresponding dependent variables, that is, outputs, regression
ML models use input data features and their corresponding
continuous numeric output variables.
As discussed in the previous chapter, Simple Linear Regression
and Multiple Linear Regression are the two most commonly used
regression models. SLR predicts a response using a single feature
and assumes that the two variables are linearly related, whereas
MLR predicts a response using two or more than two features or
independent variables. The following ﬁgure shows SLR and MLR
models to predict house prices based on their plot area:

--- Strana 200 ---
Figure 3.5: Simple and Multiple Linear Regression models

--- Strana 201 ---
Various steps to build a regressor using Python
In this section, we are going to learn various steps to build a
regressor using the Python programming language. For this
purpose, we will use Scikit-learn – an open-source machine
learning library.

--- Strana 202 ---
Step 1 – Import ML library
The process of building a regressor using Python starts by
importing the ML library. As discussed, we will use the Scikit-learn
ML library, which can be imported with the help of the following
Python command:
import sklearn

--- Strana 203 ---
Step 2 – Import dataset
Once we import the Scikit-learn ML library, we need a dataset to
train our machine learning model. To give you an example, we
will create a linear regression model by using sklearn’s Boston
house-price We can use the following command to import this
dataset:
from sklearn.datasets import load_boston
After the dataset is imported, we need to load the dataset. With
the help of the following command, we will load this dataset in a
variable named
boston_data = datasets.load_boston(return_X_y=False)
Also after the dataset is imported, we need to deﬁne the feature
matrix X and the response vector Y as follows:
X = boston_data.data
y = boston_data.target

--- Strana 204 ---
Step 3 – Organizing data into training and testing set
To test the ML model on new unseen data, we need to split the
dataset into two parts, training set and test set. For this purpose,
Scikit-learn provides us a function named Let’s see how we can
divide the dataset into 70% training set and the remaining 30%
test set:
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.3,
random_state=1)

--- Strana 205 ---
Step 4 – Creating ML model
Once we divide the dataset into the training and test set, our ML
model has to be created. Here, for creating the ML model for the
cancer dataset, we will use LinearRegression() from The command
is as follows:
from sklearn import linear_model
MLR_reg = linear_model.LinearRegression() #creating regression
object

--- Strana 206 ---
Step 5 – Train the model
To use this ML model for testing, we ﬁrst need to train this
model. It can be done by using ﬁt() function as follows:
MLR_reg.ﬁt(X_train, y_train)

--- Strana 207 ---
Step 6 – Plotting the regression line
We can now plot the regression line as follows:
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np
from sklearn import metrics
%matplotlib inline
plt.style.use('bmh')
plt.scatter(MLR_reg.predict(X_train), MLR_reg.predict(X_train) -
y_train, color = "green", s = 20, label = 'Train_data')
plt.scatter(MLR_reg.predict(X_test), MLR_reg.predict(X_test) - y_test,
color = "blue", s = 10, label = 'Test_data')
plt.hlines(y = 0, xmin = 0, xmax = 50, color = 'red', linewidth =
1.25)
plt.legend(loc = 'upper right')
plt.title("Residual errors(eo)")
plt.show()
Output:

--- Strana 208 ---
Figure 3.6: Multiple Linear Regression model for Boston House Price
prediction

--- Strana 209 ---
Step 7 – Calculating the variance
Last but not the least, we can calculate the variance, that is, how
far observed values diﬀer from the average of predicted values, for
our linear regression model with the help of the following
command:
print('Variance score: {}'.format(MLR_reg.score(X_test, y_test)))
Output:
Variance score: 0.7836295385076281

--- Strana 210 ---
Performance metrics for regression
The following are some of the important performance metrics to
evaluate predictions for regression problems:

--- Strana 211 ---
Mean Absolute Error (MAE)
As the name implies, it represents the absolute diﬀerence between
the target value and the predicted value. Rather than indicating
underperformance or overperformance of our regression model,
MAE gives us an idea of how wrong the model predictions were.
The following are some of the characteristics of MAE:
Robust to MAE does not penalize the errors as extremely as
Mean Squared Error That’s the reason it is not suitable for the
applications that pay more attention to the outliers.
Linear Another important characteristic of the MAE performance
metric is that it always results in a linear score. By linear score,
we mean that all the individual diﬀerences are weighted equally.
Let’s have a look at the formula to calculate MAE:
Here, y is the Actual Output Value and Ŷ is the Predicted Output
Value.
Scikit-learn ML library provides us the mean_absolute_error
function to compute MAE.

--- Strana 212 ---
Mean Squared Error (MSE)
MSE is the average of the squared diﬀerence between the target
value and the predicted value. The only diﬀerence between MAE
and MSE is that rather than taking the absolute diﬀerence
between the target value and the predicted value in MAE, MSE
squares that diﬀerence. The advantage of MSE over MAE is that
MSE penalizes even a very small error, which leads to over-
estimation of how bad our regression model is.
Let’s have a look at the formula to calculate MSE:
Here also, Y is the Actual Output Value and Ŷ is the Predicted
Output Value.
Scikit-learn ML library provides us the mean_squared_error function
to compute MAE.

--- Strana 213 ---
R-Squared (R2)
What if the MSE for your regression model is 29? Is your model
good enough or it needs improvement? On the other hand, what
if the MSE for your regression model is 0.2?
By looking at MSE, it is very hard to predict if the regression
model is good. Hence, we have to measure how good a
regression model is than the constant baseline.
For such measurements, we have a performance metric called R2
or the coeﬃcient of determination. Although R2 is like MSE but is
scale free, the advantage of being scale free means, despite the
output value (very small or very large), the value of R2 will always
be between -∞ and 1.
Let’s have a look at the formula to calculate R2:
In the preceding equation, the numerator is MSE (Model) and the
denominator is MSE (Baseline), that is, the variance in values.
In a nutshell, R2 represents the ratio between how good a
regression model is and how good the naïve mean model is.

--- Strana 214 ---
Scikit-learn ML library provides us the r2_score function to
compute R2.

--- Strana 215 ---
Adjusted R-squared (R2)
The major ﬂow with R-squared is that its value never decreases
no matter how many number of variables we add to the
regression model. In fact, the value of R-squared remains the
same or increases with the addition of new independent variables
to the data. Clearly, this doesn’t make sense because every
independent variable might not be useful in determining the
output.
Adjusted R2 deals with this issue because it considers the number
of independent variables used for determining the target variable.
Let’s have a look at the formula to calculate R2:
In the preceding equation:
n is the number of data points in the dataset.
m is the number of independent variables.
R is the R-squared value determined by the model.
Example:

--- Strana 216 ---
The following is a simple Python recipe that gives us an insight
about how to use these performance metrics on our regression
model:
from sklearn.metrics import mean_absolute_error
from sklearn.metrics import mean_squared_error
from sklearn.metrics import r2_score
Xactual = [2, -1, 8, 9]
Ypredict = [1.5, -0.7, 6, 7.9]
print ('Mean Absolute Error(MAE) =',mean_absolute_error(Xactual,
Ypredict))
print ('Mean Squared Error(MSE) =',mean_squared_error(Xactual,
Ypredict))
print ('Coeﬃcient of Determination (R Squared) =',r2_score(Xactual,
Ypredict))
Output:
Mean Absolute Error(MAE) = 0.9749999999999999
Mean Squared Error(MSE) = 1.3874999999999997
Coeﬃcient of Determination (R Squared) = 0.9195652173913044

--- Strana 217 ---
Conclusion
In this chapter, we learned about two main tasks, Classiﬁcation
and Regression, of Supervised Machine Learning. We learned that
the classiﬁcation model allows us to predict categorical output
responses for the given input data, whereas the regression model
allows us to predict continuous numerical output responses for
the given input data.
Starting with importing the dataset to evaluating the performance,
we also explored various steps for building a classiﬁer and
regressor in the Python programming language along with an
example. In a nutshell, the basic pipeline of classiﬁcation or
regression tasks works as follows:
The task, whether classiﬁcation or regression, starts with some
initial conﬁguration of the model.
Once conﬁgured, based on the input, the model predicts the
output.
The predicted output is now compared with the target value.
Based on the comparison, the measure of model performance is
taken.

--- Strana 218 ---
Finally, to achieve the optimal value of the performance metric we
choose, we need to iteratively adjust the various parameters of the
model.
We have also covered the various performance matrices for both
classiﬁcation and regression.
However, the constant standard for evaluating the performance of
a classiﬁer is diﬀerent for diﬀerent tasks, accuracy, the total
correct predictions made divided by all predictions made, is a
common standard in the case of every classiﬁcation task. Other
important matrices for evaluating the performance of a
classiﬁcation algorithm that we covered in this chapter include
recall, precision, Speciﬁcity, F1 Score, and so on. On the other
hand, this is quite true for regression as well. Some of the
important metrics for evaluating the performance of a regression
algorithm that we covered in this chapter are Mean Absolute Error
Mean Squared Error and R-squared
In the next chapter, you will learn about clustering, which is one
of the most useful areas of unsupervised learning.

--- Strana 219 ---
Questions
Explain classiﬁcation with an example. State the diﬀerences
between binary and multi-class classiﬁcation.
What are the various steps to build a classiﬁer using the Python
programming language? Explain with an example.
What is a Confusion matrix? Explain various terms associated with
it.
What is the signiﬁcance of the F1 Score as an evaluation metric
for classiﬁcation algorithms?
What is Regression? State the diﬀerences between simple linear
regression and multiple linear regression?
What are the various steps to build a regressor using the Python
programming language? Explain with an example.
Explain Mean Squared Error (MSE), Mean Absolute Error (MAE),
and R-squared (R2) performance evaluation metrics for regression
algorithms.
______________________________

--- Strana 220 ---
1 https://scikit-learn.org/stable
2 https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Breast+Cancer+Wisconsin+
(Diagnostic)

--- Strana 221 ---
CHAPTER 4
Clustering Using Unsupervised Learning

--- Strana 222 ---
Introduction
Machine learning works well if we have a labeled data. But what
about the cases when we do not have the labeled data? One
option is to get some labeled data and the other is to use
unsupervised machine learning. Unsupervised ML algorithms
discover the interesting patterns in data for learning without any
label data and teacher for guidance. That’s the reason they are
closely aligned with what we call true Artiﬁcial Intelligence
In the previous chapter, you got a brief overview of supervised ML
tasks: Classiﬁcation and Regression. This chapter provides details
about Clustering, an unsupervised ML task. It addresses various
methods to form clusters. You will get to know about the most
commonly used Clustering algorithms and their implementation in
the Python programming language. Also, you will get a glimpse of
the best evaluation metrics for clustering.

--- Strana 223 ---
Structure
In this chapter, we will discuss the following topics:
Clustering
Various methods to form clusters
Important ML clustering algorithms
K-means clustering Algorithm
Mean-shift clustering Algorithm
Hierarchical clustering algorithm
Performance metrics for clustering
Silhouette analysis
Davies–Bouldin index (DB index)
Dunn index

--- Strana 224 ---
Objectives
After studying this unit, you should be able to implement various
machine learning clustering algorithms, such as k-means, mean-
shift, and hierarchical clustering, in the Python programming
language. You will also learn about the performance metrics for
clustering algorithms.

--- Strana 225 ---
Clustering
What if you need to ﬁnd the similarity and relationship patterns
among your data samples using machine learning? To do so, ML
provides us an unsupervised learning method called Clustering. As
the name implies, this method, after ﬁnding the relationship
patterns, clusters the data samples that have similar features into
groups. We can depict the working of clustering methods in the
following ﬁgure:
Figure 4.1: Clustering
It is quite clear from Figure 4.1 that the system has four distinct
clusters of images. The ﬁrst cluster depicts the star images, the
second cluster depicts smiley images, the third cluster depicts
diamond images, and the fourth cluster depicts circle images. The
main objective of the clustering method is always to create
diﬀerent clusters in such a way that elements that belong to the
same clusters are near each other and the elements of other
clusters are far apart.

--- Strana 226 ---

--- Strana 227 ---
Various methods to form clusters
The clusters, as you can see in the preceding ﬁgure, are formed
in a spherical form. But do you think it is the only way/method
to form clusters? No, there are various other methods also with
the help of which we can form clusters. Some of the important
methods are discussed as follows:
Density-based As the name implies, density-based methods use
dense region to form clusters of data samples. The advantages of
using this method are that it is having a good accuracy rate and
the ability to merge two clusters together. The following are the
two popular examples of density-based methods:
Density-Based Spatial Clustering of Applications with Noise It
separates core samples of high-density from low-density samples
and expands clusters from them. This method is most suitable for
the data having clusters of similar density.
Ordering Points to Identify Clustering Structure It is closely related
to DBSCAN, separates core samples of high-density from low-
density samples, and expands clusters from them. But unlike
DBSCAN, OPTICS keeps cluster hierarchy for a variable
neighborhood radius. This method is most suitable for large
datasets.

--- Strana 228 ---
Hierarchical-based As the name implies, hierarchical-based methods
use tree-type structures to form clusters of data samples. In other
words, the clusters are formed based on the hierarchy. The two
categories of this method are bottom–up (agglomerative) and top–
down (divisive). The following are the two popular examples of
hierarchical-based methods:
Clustering using Representatives CURE, for eﬃciently handling the
clusters and eliminating outliers, adopts a middle ground in
between the centroid based and the all-point extremes. It is an
eﬃcient data clustering algorithm for large datasets and also
identiﬁes clusters having non-spherical shapes.
Balanced Iterative Reducing Clustering using Hierarchies BIRCH
ﬁrst generates a compact summary of large datasets retaining as
much information as possible and then clusters this smaller
summary rather than clustering the large dataset itself. Its major
drawback is that it can only process metric attributes that is,
attributes in which no categorical attributes are present.
As the name implies, partitioning methods use partitioning of an
object into n number of clusters where the number of clusters
formed will be equal to the number of partitions. The following
are the two popular examples of hierarchical-based methods:
Clustering Large Applications based upon Randomized Search
introduced by Raymond T.Ng and Jiawei Han of IEEE computer
society, is a partitioning method of clustering particularly designed
to cluster spatial data.

--- Strana 229 ---
k-means K-means clustering, one of the simplest unsupervised
machine learning algorithms, groups similar data points together
and discovers underlying patterns. ‘k’ in K-means refers to the
ﬁxed number of clusters in a dataset. While computing the
centroids, the k-means algorithm assigns data points in such a
manner that the sum of the squared distance between the data
points and centroid would be minimum.
As the name implies, grid methods use grid-like structures to
form clusters. Once formed, various clustering operations
performed on these grids will be independent of the number of
data objects. The following are the two popular examples of
hierarchical-based methods:
Statistical Information Grid proposed by Wang, Yang, and Muntz
at VLDB 97, is a clustering method in which the spatial area is
divided into rectangular cells. For each rectangular cell, the higher-
level cell is divided into various smaller cells in the next lower
level. The statistical information of every cell is calculated and
stored beforehand to calculate its parameters. To answer spatial
data queries, it uses a top–down approach. This process will be
repeated until the bottom layer is reached.
Clustering in Quest proposed by Agrawal, Gehrke, Gunopulos,
Raghavan, is based on automatically identifying the subspace of
high-dimensional data space that allows better clustering when
compared with the original space.

--- Strana 230 ---
Important ML clustering algorithms
In this section, we will be discussing some important ML
Clustering algorithms and their implementation in Python.

--- Strana 231 ---
K-means clustering algorithm
K-means clustering, one of the simplest unsupervised machine
learning algorithms, groups similar data points together and
discovers underlying patterns. ‘k’ in K-means refers to the ﬁxed
number of clusters in a dataset. While computing the centroids,
the k-means algorithm assigns data points in such a manner that
the sum of the squared distance between the data points and
centroid would be minimum.
The way the k-means clustering algorithm works is explained in
the following steps:
Specify the number of clusters, that is, ‘k’.
It shuﬄes the dataset to initialize centroids and then randomly
selects ‘k’ data points for the centroids.
Next, it keeps iterating the following until it ﬁnds the optimal
centroid that is, there is no change to the centroids:
First, it calculates the sum of squared distance between data
points and centroids.
Second, it assigns each data point to the nearest cluster.

--- Strana 232 ---
Finally, it takes the average of all data points of clusters to
compute the centroids for those clusters.
Implementing k-means clustering in Python
Example1:
In this example, we will implement k-means clustering on the 2-
dimensional dataset sample, which we generated on 200 sample
values, having 3 clusters.
#Importing necessary packages
%matplotlib inline
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import seaborn as sns; sns.set()
import numpy as np
from sklearn.cluster import KMeans
#Generating 2-dimensional dataset having 3 blobs
from sklearn.datasets.samples_generator import make_blobs
X, y_true = make_blobs(n_samples=200, centers=3, cluster_std=0.8)
#Let’s visualize our dataset
plt.scatter(X[:, 0], X[:, 1], s=10);
plt.show()

--- Strana 233 ---
Figure 4.2: 2-D data having 3-blobs
#Creating an object of k-means and providing number of clusters
kmeans = KMeans(n_clusters=3)
#Train the model by using ﬁt method of k-means() class
kmeans.ﬁt(X)
# do the predictions
y_kmeans = kmeans.predict(X)
# Plotting and visualizing cluster’s centers picked by k-means
estimators
plt.scatter(X[:, 0], X[:, 1], c=y_kmeans, s=10, cmap='rainbow')
centers = kmeans.cluster_centers_
plt.scatter(centers[:, 0], centers[:, 1], c='black');
plt.show()

--- Strana 234 ---
Figure 4.3: Cluster centers picked by k-means estimators
Example 2:
In this example, we will apply k-means clustering on the scikit-
learn’s digit dataset. Let’s see how k-means will identify the digits
without the original label information.
#Importing necessary packages
%matplotlib inline
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import seaborn as sns; sns.set()
import numpy as np
from sklearn.cluster import KMeans
from sklearn.datasets import load_digits
#Loading sklearn digit dataset. We will also make its object.
digits = load_digits()
digits.data.shape

--- Strana 235 ---
Output:
(1797, 64)
We can see from the preceding output that digit dataset is having
1797 samples and 64 features.
#Creating an object of k-means.
kmeans = KMeans(n_clusters=10, random_state=0)
#Train the model by using ﬁt method of k-means() class
clusters = kmeans.ﬁt_predict(digits.data)
kmeans.cluster_centers_.shape
Output:
(10, 64)
We can see from the preceding output that 10 clusters with 64
features are created by k-means.
#Picking up cluster centers learned by K-means clustering
algorithm.
ﬁg, ax = plt.subplots(2, 5, ﬁgsize=(8, 3))
centers = kmeans.cluster_centers_.reshape(10, 8, 8)
for axi, center in zip(ax.ﬂat, centers):
axi.set(xticks=[], yticks=[])
axi.imshow(center, interpolation='nearest', cmap=plt.cm.binary)

--- Strana 236 ---
Figure 4.4: Cluster centers picked by k-means estimators
#Matching the learned cluster lables with true lables found in
them.
from scipy.stats import mode
labels = np.zeros_like(clusters)
for i in range(10):
mask = (clusters == i)
labels[mask] = mode(digits.target[mask])[0]
#Checking the accuracy.
from sklearn.metrics import accuracy_score
accuracy_score(digits.target, labels)
Output:
0.7952142459654981
`
Elbow method for k evaluation in K-means Clustering
algorithm

--- Strana 237 ---
What is the fundamental step for any unsupervised algorithm? It
is to evaluate the optimal number of clusters into which the data
points may be clustered. One of the most popular methods to
evaluate the optimal value of k is the elbow method. It ﬁrst runs
the k-means clustering on the dataset for a range of values for k.
Then it computes an average score for each value of k in that
range. By default, it computes:
Distortion score is the average of the squared distances from the
cluster centers of the respective clusters.
It may be deﬁned as the sum of squared distances from each
point to its assigned center.
While implementing the preceding k-means clustering, we choose
k = It is because from the visualization of data, we can see that
the optimal number of clusters should be around 3. But we may
be wrong because visualization of data alone cannot provide the
right answer always. So, let’s evaluate the optimal value of k for
our dataset by using the elbow method:
#Importing necessary packages
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import seaborn as sns; sns.set()
from sklearn import metrics
from scipy.spatial.distance import cdist
import numpy as np
from sklearn.cluster import KMeans
#Generating 2-dimensional dataset having 3 blobs

--- Strana 238 ---
from sklearn.datasets.samples_generator import make_blobs
X, y_true = make_blobs(n_samples=200, centers=3, cluster_std=0.8)
#Let’s visualize our dataset
plt.scatter(X[:, 0], X[:, 1], s=10);
plt.show()
Figure 4.5: Data having 3-blobs
distortions = []
inertias = []
mapping_1 = {}
mapping_2 = {}
K = range(1, 9)
for k in K:
# Building and ﬁtting the model
kmeans_model = KMeans(n_clusters=k).ﬁt(X)
kmeans_model.ﬁt(X)

--- Strana 239 ---
distortions.append(sum(np.min(cdist(X,
kmeans_model.cluster_centers_,'euclidean'), axis=1)) / X.shape[0])
inertias.append(kmeans_model.inertia_)
mapping_1[k] = sum(np.min(cdist(X,
kmeans_model.cluster_centers_,'euclidean'), axis=1)) / X.shape[0]
mapping_2[k] = kmeans_model.inertia_
# Visualizing the result using diﬀerent values of distortion
plt.plot(K, distortions, 'bx-')
plt.xlabel('Values of K')
plt.ylabel('Distortion')
plt.title('The Elbow Method using Distortion')
plt.show()
Figure 4.6: The Elbow method using diﬀerent values of distortion
# Visualizing the result using diﬀerent values of inertia
plt.plot(K, inertias, 'bx-')

--- Strana 240 ---
plt.xlabel('Values of K')
plt.ylabel('Inertia')
plt.title('The Elbow Method using Inertia')
plt.show()
Figure 4.7: The Elbow method using diﬀerent values of inertia
We can ﬁnd the optimal value of k at the elbow, that is, the
point after which the distortion and inertia start decreasing linearly
(check the preceding outputs). That’s the reason, for our dataset,
we can conclude that the optimal number of clusters is 3.
Advantages of K-means Clustering algorithm
Some of the advantages of K-means clustering are given as
follows:
Easy to understand and implement.

--- Strana 241 ---
In the case of having a large number of variables, the K-means
clustering algorithm is much faster than the Hierarchical clustering
algorithm.
In comparison with the Hierarchical clustering algorithm, we get
tighter clusters with the K-means clustering algorithm.
Disadvantages of K-means Clustering algorithm
Some of the disadvantages of K-means clustering are given as
follows:
Diﬃcult to predict the value of k.
Initial input (like the number of clusters) and order of data can
impact the ﬁnal output.
Sensitive to rescaling, that is, the output will be impacted strongly
if we rescale our data by any means like normalization or
standardization.

--- Strana 242 ---
Mean-shift clustering algorithm
The mean-shift algorithm, used in unsupervised learning, is one of
the most dominant ML clustering algorithms. It is also called a
non-parametric algorithm because it does not make any kind of
assumptions. As the name implies, this algorithm iteratively
assigns the data points to the clusters by shifting points toward
the cluster centroid (contains the highest density of data points).
One of the advantages of the mean-shift algorithm over other ML
clustering algorithms, like k-means, is that it does not require the
user to specify the number of clusters in advance.
Let us understand the working of the mean-shift clustering
algorithm with the help of the following steps:
The ﬁrst step is the centroid initialization in which all the data
points are initialized to cluster centroids. In this way, we can start
with as many clusters as data points. The aim of the mean-shift
algorithm is to achieve the optimal number of clusters.
In this step, the algorithm will update the location of the new
centroid.
Once updated, the algorithm will now iteratively repeat this
process. It will then move to the highest density of data points,
that is, cluster centroid.

--- Strana 243 ---
Finally, it will stop once the centroids reach a position from where
they cannot move further.
Implementing mean-shift clustering algorithm in Python:
Let’s see how we can implement mean-shift clustering in the
Python programming language. For this, we are going to generate
a sample dataset from
#Importing necessary packages
import numpy as np
import pandas as pd
from sklearn.cluster import MeanShift
from sklearn.datasets.samples_generator import make_blobs
from matplotlib import pyplot as plt
from mpl_toolkits.mplot3d import Axes3D
#Generating sample dataset
from sklearn.datasets.samples_generator import make_blobs
centers = [[2,2,2],[5,5,5],[3,10,10]]
X, _ = make_blobs(n_samples = 300, centers = centers,
cluster_std = 0.5)
plt.scatter(X[:,0],X[:,1])
plt.show()

--- Strana 244 ---
Figure 4.8: Sample dataset
The preceding output is having sample dataset with 300 samples
and 3 clusters.
# Train the model using meanshift algorithm
ms = MeanShift(bandwidth = 2)
ms.ﬁt(X)
# Storing the cordinates for the cluster centers
cluster_centers = ms.cluster_centers_
# Plotting the data points and centroids. We will be using Axes3D
to plot 3D graph.
ﬁg = plt.ﬁgure()
ms_ax = ﬁg.add_subplot(111, projection='3d')
ms_ax.scatter(X[:,0], X[:,1], X[:,2], marker='x')
ms_ax.scatter(cluster_centers[:,0], cluster_centers[:,1],
cluster_centers[:,2], marker='x', color='red', s=500, linewidth=10,
zorder=10)

--- Strana 245 ---
plt.show()
Figure 4.9: 3D graph of centroids
Advantages of mean-shift clustering algorithm
Some of the advantages of mean-shift clustering are given as
follows:
We do not make any model assumptions as we do while
implementing K-means or Gaussian mixture.
Mean-shift clustering can model the complex clusters having a
non-convex shape.
It can automatically determine the number of clusters with the
help of only one parameter named bandwidth.
Mean-shift clustering does not have the problem of local minima.

--- Strana 246 ---
Disadvantages of mean-shift clustering algorithm
Some of the disadvantages of mean-shift clustering are given as
follows:
It is not useful in the case of high dimensions, that is, when the
number of clusters changes abruptly.
In some speciﬁc applications, we need a speciﬁc number of
clusters.
The mean-shift algorithm does not diﬀerentiate between
meaningful and meaningless modes.

--- Strana 247 ---
Hierarchical clustering algorithm
Hierarchical clustering algorithm amalgamates the unlabeled data
points having the same characteristics. The two categories of this
clustering algorithm are given as follows:
Agglomerative hierarchical As the name implies, this category of
hierarchical clustering algorithm ﬁrst treats the data points as a
single cluster and then agglomerate, that is, merge the pairs of
clusters by using the bottom–up approach.
Divisive hierarchical As the name implies, this category of
hierarchical clustering algorithm divides one big cluster into small
clusters by using the top–down approach.
Agglomerative hierarchical clustering is one of the most commonly
used clustering algorithms. Let us understand its working with the
help of the following steps:
Agglomerative hierarchical clustering always starts with having
some number of clusters because it treats every data point as a
single cluster. For this purpose, let us say we have an M number
of clusters.
The nature of agglomerative clustering is to join two closet data
points to form a big cluster. Hence, it will ﬁrst give us M-1

--- Strana 248 ---
clusters and similarly, to form bigger clusters, it will join two
closest clusters resulting in a total of M-2 clusters.
Repeat the preceding two steps to form a big cluster. The step
should be repeated until there remain no more data points left to
combine. In other words, until M becomes 0.
At last use dendrograms to divide that one big cluster into
multiple clusters.
Understanding the role of dendrograms in agglomerative
hierarchical clustering
As discussed, the role of the dendrogram is to split one big
cluster into multiple clusters of correlated data points. In this way,
the role of the dendrogram started once we created the big
cluster. Let’s understand the role of dendrogram with the help of
the following Python program:
#Importing necessary packages
%matplotlib inline
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np
#Plotting the data points for our example
X = np.array([[10,11],[13,21],[18,20],[24,18],[33,38],[86,76],[74,86], [63,85],
[78,65],[88,97],])
labels = range(1, 11)
plt.ﬁgure(ﬁgsize=(10, 7))
plt.subplots_adjust(bottom=0.1)

--- Strana 249 ---
plt.scatter(X[:,0],X[:,1], label='True Position')
for label, x, y in zip(labels, X[:, 0], X[:, 1]):
plt.annotate(label,xy=(x, y), xytext=(-3, 3),textcoords='oﬀset points',
ha='right', va='bottom')
plt.show()
Figure 4.10: Data points
From the preceding ﬁgure, it is clear that we have only two
clusters for our example but as we know in real life there can be
thousands of clusters.
# Plotting the dendograms of our datapoints
from scipy.cluster.hierarchy import dendrogram, linkage

--- Strana 250 ---
from matplotlib import pyplot as plt
linked = linkage(X, 'single')
labelList = range(1, 11)
plt.ﬁgure(ﬁgsize=(10, 7))
dendrogram(linked, orientation='top',labels=labelList,
distance_sort='descending',show_leaf_counts=True)
plt.show()
Figure 4.11: Dendrograms created from our data points
# Predicting the clusters by using AgglomerativeClustering from
sklearn.cluster
from sklearn.cluster import AgglomerativeClustering
cluster = AgglomerativeClustering(n_clusters=2, aﬃnity='euclidean',
linkage='ward')
cluster.ﬁt_predict(X)

--- Strana 251 ---
# Plotting the clusters
plt.scatter(X[:,0],X[:,1], c=cluster.labels_, cmap='rainbow')
Figure 4.12: Two clusters plotted from our data points
Implementing hierarchical clustering algorithm in Python
Let’s see how we can implement hierarchical clustering in the
Python programming language. For this, we are going to use
Pima-Indians Diabetes dataset..
#Importing necessary packages
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import pandas as pd
%matplotlib inline
import numpy as np
from pandas import read_csv

--- Strana 252 ---
#Getting the data points from the Pima Indians Diabetes dataset
DATASET
path = r"C:\diabetes.csv"
headernames = ['preg', 'plas', 'pres', 'skin', 'test', 'mass', 'pedi',
'age', 'class']
data = read_csv(path, names=headernames)
array = data.values
X = array[:,0:8]
Y = array[:,8]
data.shape
Output:
(768, 9)
# Plotting the dendograms of our datapoints
diabetes_patient_data = data.iloc[:, 3:5].values
import scipy.cluster.hierarchy as shc
plt.ﬁgure(ﬁgsize=(10, 7))
plt.title("Patient Dendogram")
dend_patient = shc.dendrogram(shc.linkage(data, method='ward'))

--- Strana 253 ---
Figure 4.13: Dendrograms created from Pima-Indian-Database
# Predicting the clusters by using AgglomerativeClustering from
sklearn.cluster
from sklearn.cluster import AgglomerativeClustering
cluster = AgglomerativeClustering(n_clusters=4, aﬃnity='euclidean',
linkage='ward')
cluster.ﬁt_predict(diabetes_patient_data)
# Plotting the clusters
plt.ﬁgure(ﬁgsize=(10, 7))
plt.scatter(diabetes_patient_data [:,0], diabetes_patient_data [:,1],
c=cluster.labels_, cmap='rainbow')

--- Strana 254 ---
Figure 4.14: Clusters created from Pima-IndiansDiabetes Database
Advantages of hierarchical clustering algorithm
Some of the advantages of hierarchical clustering are given as
follows:
It is easy to understand and implement.
No need to pre-specify the number of clusters. We can easily
obtain the number of clusters by cutting the dendrogram at a
proper level.
Disadvantages of hierarchical clustering algorithm

--- Strana 255 ---
Some of the disadvantages of hierarchical clustering are given as
follows:
It does not work well on a large amount of data, missing data,
and with mixed data types.
In comparison with other eﬃcient algorithms, such as k-means,
the computation time for clustering is long.

--- Strana 256 ---
Performance metrics for clustering
Which of these learning algorithms, supervised or unsupervised,
do you think is easier for the quality assessment? In the case of
supervised learning algorithms, we already have the output labels
for each example; hence, it is quite easier to measure the
performance of supervised learning algorithms. Conversely, in the
case of unsupervised learning, we have the unlabeled data; hence,
it is not that easy to measure their performance. However, there
are some performance metrics that can give us an insight into
the change in clusters. But these performance metrics, instead of
measuring the validity of the ML model’s prediction, will only
evaluate the comparative performance between two ML models.
The following are some of the performance metrics with the help
of which we can measure the quality of clustering algorithms:

--- Strana 257 ---
Silhouette analysis
This metric measures the distance between clusters to check the
quality of the clustering model. It uses the Silhouette score to
assess the parameters such as the number of clusters. Silhouette
score, ranges between [-1, 1], measures the closeness of each
point in one cluster to the points in other nearby clusters. Let’s
perform the analysis of the Silhouette score:
+1 Silhouette This score indicates that the sample we are using is
very far away from its nearby cluster.
0 Silhouette This score indicates that the sample used is on the
decision boundary that separates two nearby clusters.
-1 Silhouette This score indicates that the sample used is assigned
to the wrong cluster.
The following is the formula for calculating the Silhouette score:
silhouette score = (p - q)/max (p,q)
Here, p is the mean distance to the points in the nearest cluster,
and q is the mean intra-cluster distance to all the points.

--- Strana 258 ---
Davies–Bouldin index
Davies–Bouldin index, another good metric for clustering analysis,
helps us get the answer to the following two questions:
Is there enough space between the two clusters?
What is the density of clusters?
The following is the formula for calculating the DB index:
Here, n is the number of clusters, and σi is the average distance
of all points in cluster i from the cluster centroid
The lower the Davies–Bouldin index value, the better the cluster
density.

--- Strana 259 ---
Dunn index
Dunn index works the same as Davies–Bouldin index but they
both diﬀer in the following points:
Dunn index considers only those clusters in a clustering model
that are close with each other, whereas Davies–Bouldin index
considers the separation of each one of the clusters.
Dunn index boosts when the performance of the clustering model
boosts, whereas Davies–Bouldin index boosts in the case of dense
clusters.
The following is the formula for calculating the DB index:
Here, i, j, k are the indices for clusters, p is the inter-cluster
distance, and q is the intra-cluster distance.

--- Strana 260 ---
Conclusion
In this chapter, we learned about Clustering, which is one of the
most useful areas of unsupervised machine learning. We learned
that the clustering model allows us to ﬁnd the similarity and
relationship patterns among data samples and after detecting the
relationship patterns, based on similar features, it clusters the data
samples into groups.
Despite forming the clusters in spherical form, there are four
other methods, namely, Density-based method, Hierarchical-based
method, Partitioning method, and Grid method to form the
clusters. All these methods have been covered in this chapter.
We also covered the three commonly used clustering algorithms,
namely, k-means, mean-shift, and hierarchical clustering along with
their advantages and disadvantages. You also learned their
implementation in the Python programming language.
In a nutshell, the basic pipeline of clustering task works as
follows:
The task of clustering starts with the data points, assigned to a
cluster of their own.
Once the data points are accessed, the model will compute all
the centroids.

--- Strana 261 ---
The process will be repeated iteratively, and the model will move
to the highest density of data points that is, cluster centroids.
The output of clustering tasks are the isolated groups of similar
data points, and these are dissimilar from the data points of
other groups.
The various performance matrices, namely Silhouette Analysis,
Davies–Bouldin index, and Dunn index, for clustering have also
been covered.
However, like supervised learning, in the case of unsupervised
learning, we don’t have that luxury because we are dealing with
unlabeled data. That’s the reason it is not easy to measure the
performance of clustering tasks and the idea of testing seems a
ﬂawed premise. But even when labeled data is unavailable, there
are numerous metrics that examine the quality of clustering
results. Rather than measuring the validity of the ML model’s
prediction, these metrices can give us insight into how the
clusters might change. The metrics we covered will also evaluate
the comparative performance between the two ML models.
In the next chapter, you will learn about logic programming and
how we can solve problems by using it.

--- Strana 262 ---
Questions
What is clustering? Explain various methods to form clusters.
What are the various steps of the k-means clustering algorithm?
Write a code to implement it in the Python programming
language.
What are the various steps of the mean-shift clustering algorithm?
Write a code to implement it in the Python programming
language.
What is a hierarchical clustering algorithm? Explain.
What is the role of dendrograms in the agglomerative hierarchical
clustering algorithm?
Explain various performance evaluation metrics for clustering
algorithms.
______________________________
1 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA
ENGINEERING, VOL. 14, NO. 5, Page 1003-1016,
SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER 2002

--- Strana 263 ---
2 STING : A Statistical Information Grid Approach to Spatial Data
Mining, VLDB 97 Conference
3 Automatic Subspace Clustering of High Dimensional Data for
Data Mining Applications, 94-105 ACM SIGMOD Conference 1998:
Seattle, Washington

--- Strana 264 ---
CHAPTER 5
Solving Problems with Logic Programming

--- Strana 265 ---
Introduction
If you have done coding before, there are chances that you are
comfortable with some of the imperative programming languages
like C++, Java, or Python. We know, in such a programming
paradigm, every program is an organized list of instructions that
modiﬁes its state when executed. Isn’t it the simplest and the
most common way of computer programming? But it is not the
focus of this chapter.
Instead, in this chapter, we are going to learn about a diﬀerent
computer programing paradigm in which the program uses facts
and rules to express the problem. This kind of programming
paradigm is called logic programming. You will also get to know
about the building blocks of logic programming. Furthermore, with
the help of some examples, we will also implement logic
programing in the Python language.

--- Strana 266 ---
Structure
In this chapter, we will discuss the following topics:
Logic programming
Building blocks of logic programming
Python packages for logic programming
Implementation examples

--- Strana 267 ---
Objectives
After studying this chapter, you should be able to implement logic
programming in the Python programming language. With the help
of two useful implementation examples, namely, Checking and
generating prime numbers and solving Zebra puzzle, you will learn
to solve problems in the logic programming domain. You will also
be able to install two useful python packages, named Kanren and
SymPy.

--- Strana 268 ---
Logic programming
We all are familiar with the term logic or more precisely formal
logic in one or another sense. In layman language, logic may be
deﬁned as the study of what comes after what. On the other
hand, in technical terms, logic may be deﬁned as the study of
principles of correct reasoning. For example, if A = B and B = C
then we can easily infer that A = C.
Let’s now talk about logic programming. Logic programming, a
combination of two individual words logic and programming, is a
programming paradigm in which a program is a database of
relations, that is, knowledge made of facts and rules. In simple
words, in logic programming, a program is a set of organized
instructions expressing facts and rules about a particular problem
domain. A graphical representation of logic programming is given
as follows:
Figure 5.1: Logic Programming

--- Strana 269 ---

--- Strana 270 ---
Building blocks of logic programming
In order to solve problems, logic programming uses facts and
rules. These facts and rules, hence, are called the building blocks
of logic programming. Let’s know more about facts and rules in
detail:
The simplest deﬁnition of facts is that these are true statements.
For example, the national game of India is Hockey. In the case of
logic programming, the facts are the true statements about the
program and the data itself.
To achieve the given goal, along with facts, logic programming
also needs constraints that can lead us to conclusions about the
problem domain. Rules, written as logical clauses to express facts,
are such constraints in logic programs.
Syntax of The following statement is the syntax of rules:
X->Y1,Y2 …,Ym
We can read the preceding statement as:
X if Y1 and Y2 and …and Ym

--- Strana 271 ---
Here, X is the head of the preceding rule and Y1, Y2, …, Ym is
the body of that rule.
A rule that does not have any body is called fact. For example, X
from the preceding stated rule.
In a nutshell, facts and rules are the backbones of logic programs
with the help of which it achieves the given goal and leads to a
conclusion.

--- Strana 272 ---
Useful Python packages for logic programming
The following are the two useful Python packages with the help of
which we can start logic programming:
Kanren is one of the important Python packages used for logic
programming. We can easily express logic as facts and rules. It
helps the programmer to simplify its code for business logic as
well. The following is the Python command to install it:
pip install kanren
SymPy, a library for symbolic mathematics, is another useful
python package for logic programming. It’s almost a full-featured
CAS Algebra The following is the python command to install it:
pip install sympy

--- Strana 273 ---
Implementation examples
In this section, we will implement two logic programming
examples in the Python programming language.

--- Strana 274 ---
Checking and generating prime numbers
Logic programming can help us ﬁnd prime numbers from a list
of numbers as well as generate them. The following steps show
how to check and generate prime numbers:
First, by using Kanren Python library, import the required
packages:
from kanren import isvar, run, membero
from kanren.core import success
from kanren.core import fail
from kanren.core import goaleval
from kanren.core import condeseq
from kanren.core import eq
from kanren.core import var
from sympy.ntheory.generate import prime, isprime
import itertools as it
Next, let us deﬁne a function for checking prime numbers from
the given list of numbers:
def prime_check(M):
if isvar(M):
return condeseq([(eq,M,p)] for p in map(prime, it.count(1)))
else:
return success if isprime(M) else fail

--- Strana 275 ---
Now, declare a variable and use this to ﬁnd the prime numbers
from the list of numbers:
M = var()
print((set(run(0,M,(membero,M,(1,3,4,5,6,7,9,10,11,12,14,15,20,21,22,
23,29,30,41,44,52,55,59,61,89)),(prime_check,M)))))
Output:
{3, 5, 7, 41, 11, 61, 23, 89, 59, 29}
We can also generate prime numbers. Let’s generate the ﬁrst 15
prime numbers:
print((run(15,M,prime_check(M))))
(2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, 19, 23, 29, 31, 37, 41, 43, 47)

--- Strana 276 ---
Solving the puzzles
Many puzzles like Sudoku, N-queen, 8-puzzles, Zebra puzzle can
be solved by using logic programming. Here, we will solve a
variant of Zebra Puzzle, which was published by Life International
magazine in 1962. In this puzzle, they provided a series of clues
about 5 houses containing people of diﬀerent nationalities and
animals along with other things too. The readers need to ﬁgure
out which house had the animal Zebra in it.
First, let us check the variant of the puzzle to be solved:
There are ﬁve houses.
The English man lives in the red house.
The Swede has a dog.
The Dane drinks tea.
The green house is immediately to the left of the white house.
They drink coﬀee in the green house.
The man who smokes Pall Mall has birds.
In the yellow house they smoke Dunhill.
In the middle house they drink milk.
The Norwegian lives in the ﬁrst house.
The man who smokes Blend lives in the house next to the house
with cats.
In a house next to the house where they have a horse, they
smoke Dunhill.
The man who smokes Blue Master drinks beer.
The Japanese smokes Prince.

--- Strana 277 ---
The Norwegian lives next to the blue house.
They drink water in a house next to the house where they smoke
Blend.
Programmatically, we can solve such a problem in a number of
ways. If we can make a table to solve it, we can brute force it.
Isn’t it? But then it’s going to be a big table. For this, we can
dump that table into a database and query it with Structured
Query Language (SQL). But, it’s not that easy due to the
following kind of statements:
The man who smokes Blend lives in the house next to the house
with cats.
Such kind of statements declare a relationship between some X
and some other Here, X represents the house. X can be anything
but the most important thing in these kinds of statements is the
word ‘some’. Because it is the logic variable that acts as a
placeholder for a value without even specifying a single actual
value. That’s the reason, the solver can try out diﬀerent possible
solutions before landing on a ﬁnal one.
On the other hand, we have a logical solution with the help of
logic programming. For this, the solver should think of each clue
as a rule. Consider all the rules and tell what values will satisfy
all of them. The following are the two examples given:
(eq, (var(), var(), var(), var(), var()), houses)

--- Strana 278 ---
The preceding example sets up houses as a list of logic variables,
that is, houses equals a list of ﬁve logic variables. In other words,
it indicates that each of the houses will itself contain a list of
logic variables. Such an example does not represent an
assignment but it actually declares equality.
(membero,('Englishman', var(), var(), var(), 'red'), houses)
The preceding example shows that one of them has two
properties, namely, Englishman and The other three out of ﬁve
should be ﬁlled by the puzzle solver and are left blank as logic
variables.
In this way, we need to input all the constraints/rules. Once the
input is complete, you can run the solver to ﬁnd out what houses
meet the requirements in rules for Zebra.
The solution of this puzzle using the Python logic programming
are given as follows:
First, by using kanren Python library, import the required packages:
from kanren import *
from kanren.core import lall
import time
Next, let us deﬁne a function, namely, left_to_house() to check
whose house is left to whose house and another function, namely,
next_to_house() to check whose house is next to whose house:

--- Strana 279 ---
def left_to_house(q, p, list):
return membero((q,p), zip(list, list[1:]))
def next_to_house(q, p, list):
return conde([left_to_house (q, p, list)], [left_to_house (p, q, list)])
Now, declare the variable named houses and deﬁne the
rules/constraints as follows:
houses = var()
rules_for_zebrahouse = lall(
(eq, (var(), var(), var(), var(), var()), houses),
(membero,('Englishman', var(), var(), var(), 'red'), houses),
(membero,('Swede', var(), var(), 'dog', var()), houses),
(membero,('Dane', var(), 'tea', var(), var()), houses),
(left_to_house,(var(), var(), var(), var(), 'green'), (var(), var(), var(),
var(), 'white'), houses),
(membero,(var(), var(), 'coﬀee', var(), 'green'), houses),
(membero,(var(), 'Pall Mall', var(), 'birds', var()), houses),
(membero,(var(), 'Dunhill', var(), var(), 'yellow'), houses),
(eq,(var(), var(), (var(), var(), 'milk', var(), var()), var(), var()),
houses),
(eq,(('Norwegian', var(), var(), var(), var()), var(), var(), var(),
var()), houses),
(next_to_house,(var(), 'Blend', var(), var(), var()), (var(), var(),
var(), 'cats', var()), houses),
(next_to_house,(var(), 'Dunhill', var(), var(), var()), (var(), var(),
var(), 'horse', var()), houses),
(membero,(var(), 'Blue Master', 'beer', var(), var()), houses),

--- Strana 280 ---
(membero,('German', 'Prince', var(), var(), var()), houses),
(next_to_house,('Norwegian', var(), var(), var(), var()), (var(), var(),
var(), var(), 'blue'), houses),
(next_to_house,(var(), 'Blend', var(), var(), var()), (var(), var(),
'water', var(), var()), houses),
(membero,(var(), var(), var(), 'zebra', var()), houses)
)
Finally, we need to run the solver with the following constraints:
solutions = run(0, houses, rules_for_zebrahouse)
The following line of code will get the output from the solver:
Zebra_house = [house for house in solutions[0] if 'zebra' in house]
[0][0]
print ('\n'+ Zebra_house + ' had zebra.')
Output:
German had zebra.

--- Strana 281 ---
Conclusion
In this chapter, we learned about the basic concepts of logic
programming and implemented some of its examples in the
Python programming language. We got to know that logic
programming is a kind of programming paradigm that is based
on “Logic” or more precisely “Formal Logic”. We also learned
about the building blocks of logic programming, which are facts
and rules. Facts, we understood, are the true statements about
the program and data, whereas rules are the constraints, which
lead the solver to some conclusions. If we talk about the
mathematical structure of these building blocks, rules have both
head and the body, whereas facts only have the head and do not
contain the body.
For implementing logic programming in the Python programming
language, we discussed two useful packages, named Kanren and
SymPy. You also learned the commands to install these packages
in your computer system. You can use logic programming to solve
a variety of problems such as N-queen, 8-puzzles, and Sudoku,
and so on. With the help of two useful implementation examples,
namely, Checking and Generating Prime Numbers and Solving Zebra
we learned how to solve problems in this domain.
From our Zebra puzzle, we understood why logic programming is
important to solve such puzzles. Some of the reasons are:

--- Strana 282 ---
To create tables to solve such puzzles is time consuming.
It is diﬃcult to solve and understand the statements that declare
a relationship between two X variables.
Logic variable acts as a placeholder for a value without even
specifying a single value.
AI is the capacity of an artiﬁcial machine to act smartly, and
Logic on the other side is important for AI as the intelligent
agents need to know the facts about the environment in which
they operate. The facts contain both declarative and procedural
knowledge. For example, procedural knowledge – don’t put the
ﬁnger in the ﬁre; declarative knowledge – putting your ﬁnger in
the ﬁre will burn it and you don’t want to get hurt.
In the next chapter, you will learn about the basic concepts of
Natural Language Processing logic programming along with its
implementation in the Python programming language.

--- Strana 283 ---
Questions
What do you mean by Formal Logic? Also, explain logic
programming.
What are facts and rules? How are they useful in solving
problems using logic programming?
What are the uses of Kanren and SymPy Python packages? How
can you install them?
Write a program in Python programming language to generate the
ﬁrst 10 prime numbers by using the logic programming paradigm.
What is a Zebra puzzle? Write a Python program to solve this
puzzle using the logic programming paradigm.

--- Strana 284 ---
CHAPTER 6
Natural Language Processing with Python

--- Strana 285 ---
Introduction
What is our method of communication with others? It is our
language, isn’t it? It is the language in which we can speak, read,
and write. In other words, we do things like making plans,
making decisions, thinking, and so on, all in our natural language.
But here one of the most important questions is that in this era
of Artiﬁcial Intelligence can we similarly communicate with
machines as we do with other human beings, that is, in our
natural language?
In this chapter, we are going to learn about one of the hottest
topics in the ﬁeld of data science that concerns enabling
machines to process and understand human language. You will
also get to know about the working and phases of NLP. We will
also cover important concepts like tokenization, stemming,
lemmatization, chunking, Bag-of-Words (BoW) model, stop words,
vectorization, and transformers. Furthermore, from an
implementation perspective, we will be learning how to install and
work with Natural Language Toolkit Python package.

--- Strana 286 ---
Structure
This chapter is structured as follows:
Natural Language Processing (NLP)
Installing Python’s NLTK package
Understanding tokenization, stemming, and lemmatization
Understanding chunking
Understanding Bag-of-Words (BoW) model
Understanding stop words
Understanding vectorization and transformers
Implementation examples

--- Strana 287 ---
Objective
After studying this chapter, you should be able to install and use
Python’s NLTK package. You will learn some important NLP
concepts such as tokenization, stemming, lemmatization, chunking,
Bag-of-Words model, stop words, vectorization, and transformers.
You will also be able to implement those NLP concepts using the
Python programming language.

--- Strana 288 ---
Natural Language Processing (NLP)
Natural Language Processing is a ﬁeld of computer science, more
precisely a ﬁeld of AI that concerns enabling machines to
comprehend and process the language in which we (humans)
communicate. In technical terms, the main task of NLP is to
program machines for understanding, analyzing, and processing
the huge amount of natural language data.

--- Strana 289 ---
Working of NLP
To understand the working of NLP, we ﬁrst need to understand
how we use our natural language. In our day-to-day life, we
usually say a hundred or thousands of words. Similarly, other
human beings infer those words and answer accordingly. Isn’t it
simple communication for us? It is simple for us because we
humans can derive a context from what is said and how it is
said. In the same way, rather than focusing on voice modulation,
natural language processing does draw on contextual patterns.
Look at the following examples:
Man is to women as king is to what?
You can easily interpret the preceding question and answer it. The
question shows that man relates to the king, hence women can
relate to the
queen
We got the answer from our experience, but can the machine
behave in the same way. Check the following steps to understand
how the machines learn in the same way as we learn:

--- Strana 290 ---
The ﬁrst basic step is to feed enough data to machines so that
they can use it and learn from experience.
Once the machine will get enough data, it will create word vectors
using that data. It uses a deep learning algorithm for this task.
To provide answers like humans, the machine will perform simple
algebraic operations on the word vectors that are created earlier
from data.

--- Strana 291 ---
Phases/logical steps in NLP
The following ﬁgure represents the phases/logical steps in NLP:
Figure 6.1: NLP phases

--- Strana 292 ---
Morphological It is the ﬁrst phase of natural language processing.
It explores the structure of words by breaking down the chunks of
input language sentences into sets of tokens. For example,
unfriendly = un-friend-ly. Morphological analysis is important for
information retrieval, language modeling, and machine translation.
Syntactic It is one of the most important phases/components of
NLP. The following are the two main purposes of this phase:
Checking whether a sentence is well-formed or not.
Breaking up the sentence into a structure that gives us the
syntactic relationship between various words.
Semantic Drawing the exact dictionary meaning from the input text
is an important phase of NLP. This phase is called semantic
analysis. In this phase, the input text is checked for its
meaningfulness. The output of this phase would be the object
references. For example, the sentence hot ice cream does not
have any meaning, hence it would be rejected by a semantic
analyzer.
Pragmatic In this phase, NLP ﬁts the actual objects existing in
each context with object references produced by a semantic
analyzer. For example, the sentence Keep the book in the rack on
the table is having two semantic interpretations. From such
sentences, the pragmatic analyzer needs to choose between
possible semantic interpretations.

--- Strana 293 ---
Implementing NLP
To implement NLP and build applications with it, one needs to
have a great understanding of language along with a speciﬁc skill
set. The tools will also play an important role to process the
language eﬃciently. NLTK, Mallet, GATE, UIMA, Gensim, Open
NLP, and Standford toolkit are some open-source tools, and some
are developed by organizations to develop their applications.
In this chapter, we will be using NLTK. In comparison with the
NLP tools, which are stated earlier, NLTK is much easier to use.
It is written in Python hence the learning curve is fast.

--- Strana 294 ---
Installing Python’s NLTK Package
Prerequisites for installing are:
To install NLTK, we need to ﬁrst install Python (if not yet
installed) on our computer system. To install Python, ﬁrst, go to
the link https://www.python.org/downloads/ and then select the OS
on which you are running your computer system:
Figure 6.2: Downloading Python

--- Strana 295 ---
Installing NLTK
Let us understand how we can install NLTK on various operating
systems:
Windows OS
The following are the steps to install NLTK on MS Windows:
Open the Command Prompt (cmd) and go to the pip folder
location.
Next, use the following command:
pip3 install nltk
To verify the installation, open the PythonShell and type the
following command:
importnltk
If you have got no error after running the preceding command,
means the installation is successful.
Mac/Unix OS

--- Strana 296 ---
Use the following command to install NLTK on Mac/Unix OS:
pip install –user -U nltk
In case if you do not have pip installed on your computer
system, you ﬁrst need to install that also.
Through Anaconda distribution installer
An alternative to install NLTK is the Anaconda distribution
installer. The following are the steps to install NLTK:
Step1: Use this link
https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual#download-section to
install Anaconda. You can choose as per your OS.

--- Strana 297 ---
Figure 6.3: Installing Anaconda distribution
Open the Anaconda Command Prompt run the following
command:
conda install -c anaconda nltk

--- Strana 298 ---
Downloading NLTK corpus
We learned how to install NLTK on various operating systems but
to work with it we also need to download its corpus/datasets.
Open the Python Shell and type the following commands:
importnltk
nltk.download()
After running the commands, we will get the following window:

--- Strana 299 ---
Figure 6.4: Downloading NLTK corpus
Click on the Download button and you will get all the NLTK
datasets/corpus on your computer system.

--- Strana 300 ---
Understanding tokenization, stemming, and lemmatization
In this section, we will discuss some useful NLP concepts, such
as, tokenization, stemming, and lemmatization. First, let’s get
started with tokenization.

--- Strana 301 ---
Tokenization
Language translation, QA systems, chatbots, sentiment analysis,
and voice systems are some of the valuable applications that can
be built by using NLP. To build such applications, the most
important step is to understand the pattern in the text. Tokens
(the smaller parts of the text) play a vital role in ﬁnding and
understanding the pattern in the text.
In this way, we can deﬁne tokenization as the process of breaking
up a piece of text into smaller parts. These smaller parts, which
can be sentences and words, are called tokens. For example,
sentences are made up of words, hence words are tokens in a
sentence. Similarly, paragraphs are made up of sentences, hence
sentences are tokens in a paragraph.
To achieve the process of tokenization in Python, the NLTK
provides a package named
As we have discussed before, we can have tokens from sentences
(in the form of words) and paragraphs (in the form of sentences).
Let’s see how we can do this by using the nltk.tokenize package:
Tokenizing One of the important text processing activities is to
split the sentences into words. The Python package nltk.tokenoze
provides the following modules to tokenize sentences into words:

--- Strana 302 ---
This module is used for the basic tokenization of sentences into
words. Let us understand it’s working with the help of the
following example:
import nltk
from nltk import word_tokenize
word_tokenize("This module can be used for basic tokenizing of
sentences into words.")
Output:
['This',
'module',
'can',
‘be’,
'used',
'for',
'basic',
'tokenizing',
'of',
'sentences',
'into',
'words',
'.']
This method is invoked by word_tokenize() module with an
assumption that the text has already been segmented into
diﬀerent sentences. The following are some characteristics of the
treebank tokenizer method:

--- Strana 303 ---
It splits standard contractions. For example, can’t -> ca n’t.
When followed by whitespaces, this method also splits oﬀ
commas and single quotes.
It separates periods that appear at the end of the line.
Let us understand it’s working with the help of the following
example:
import nltk
from nltk.tokenize import TreebankWordTokenizer
sentence = '''Good vegan pizza cost $12.25\ninPheonix, Arizona.
Please buy me\ntwo of them.\nThank you.'''
TreebankWordTokenizer().tokenize(sentence)
Output:
['Good',
'vegan',
'pizza',
'cost',
'$',
'12.25',
'in',
'Pheonix',
',',
'Arizona.',

--- Strana 304 ---
'Please',
'buy',
'me',
'two',
'of',
'them.',
'Thank',
'you',
'.']
sentence1 = "He'll save and invest for his retirement."
TreebankWordTokenizer().tokenize(sentence1)
Output:
['He', "'ll", 'save', 'and', 'invest', 'for', 'his', 'retirement', '.']
sentence2 = "Hello, he can't go to market,"
TreebankWordTokenizer().tokenize(sentence2)
Output:
['Hello', ',', 'he', 'ca', "n't", 'go', 'to', 'market', ',']
As the name implies, this tokenizer splits punctuations into
separate tokens. Let’s understand it’s working with the help of the
following example:
import nltk
from nltk.tokenize import WordPunctTokenizer
sentence = "He'll save and invest for his retirement."

--- Strana 305 ---
WordPunctTokenizer().tokenize(sentence)
Output:
['He', "'", 'll', 'save', 'and', 'invest', 'for', 'his', 'retirement', '.']
You can see the diﬀerence in the output of
TreebankWordTokenizer() and
As the name implies, this method uses a regular expression for
tokenizing sentences into words. Let’s understand it’s working with
the help of the following example:
import nltk
from nltk.tokenize import RegexpTokenizer
tokenizer = RegexpTokenizer("[\w']+")
sentence = "He'll save and invest for his retirement."
tokenizer.tokenize(sentence)
Output:
["He'll", 'save', 'and', 'invest', 'for', 'his', 'retirement']
Tokenizing We understood word tokenization, that is, tokenizing
sentences into words with the help of the word_tokenizer()
module. Now, we will tokenize paragraphs, that is, tokenizing
paragraphs into sentences. For this, NLTK provides us the
sent_tokenize() module.

--- Strana 306 ---
But here the question arises if we have a word tokenizer then
why do we need a sentence tokenizer? Both are important in one
or another way. For example, if you would need to count average
words in sentences, then you need both a sentence tokenizer as
well as a word tokenizer. Let us understand its working and how
sentence tokenizer is diﬀerent from word tokenizer with the help
of the following example:
import nltk
from nltk.tokenize import sent_tokenize
text = "It shows the diﬀerence between word tokenizer and
sentence tokenizer. It's a simple example."
sent_tokenize(text)
Output:
['It shows the diﬀerence between word tokenizer and sentence
tokenizer.',
"It's a simple example."]

--- Strana 307 ---
Stemming
Stemming, an important part of the pipelining process in NLP
and NLU, may be deﬁned as the process of reducing a word to
its root/base after removing suﬃxes and preﬁxes. In simple words,
stemming produces morphological variants of a word. For
example, the stemming algorithms or stemmers reduce the words
eating, eats, and eaten to eat.
One of the most important applications of stemming is in
information retrieval systems in search engines. Stemming reduces
the size of the index because a search engine can store only the
stems and it does not need to store all forms of the word.
Stemming The following ﬁgure has all the stemming
algorithms/stemmers, which we will discuss in this section:

--- Strana 308 ---
Figure 6.5: Various stemming algorithms
NLTK provides us PorterStemmer class with the help of which we
can easily implement a porter stemming algorithm, which is
designed to remove as well as replace suﬃxes of English words.
Check the following example:
import nltk
from nltk.stem import PorterStemmer
stemming_word = PorterStemmer()
stemming_word.stem('writing')
Output:
'write'
stemming_word.stem('working')
Output:
'work'
Another common stemming algorithm is the Lancaster Stemming
algorithm, which is developed at Lancaster University. NLTK
provides us the LancasterStemmer class with the help of which we
can easily implement this algorithm. Check the following example:

--- Strana 309 ---
import nltk
from nltk.stem import LancasterStemmer
stemming_Lanc = LancasterStemmer()
stemming_Lanc.stem('reads')
Output:
'read'
stemming_Lanc.stem('sweets')
Output:
'sweet'
Another useful stemming algorithm is the Regular Expression
Stemming algorithm, which takes a single RE and removes preﬁx
or suﬃx matching that expression. NLTK provides us
RegexpStemmer class with the help of which we can easily
implement this algorithm. Check the following example:
import nltk
from nltk.stem import RegexpStemmer
Regexp_stemmer = RegexpStemmer('ing')
Regexp_stemmer.stem('enjoying')
Output:
'enjoy'

--- Strana 310 ---
Regexp_stemmer.stem('ingenjoy')
Output:
'enjoy'
The Snowball Steaming algorithm supports 15 non-English
languages. To work with this algorithm, we ﬁrst need to create an
instance of the language and then call the method NLTK provides
us SnowballStemmer class with the help of which we can easily
implement this algorithm. Check the following example:
import nltk
from nltk.stem import SnowballStemmer
SnowballStemmer.languages#Languge supported by Snowball
Stemmer
Output:
('arabic',
'danish',
'dutch',
'english',
'ﬁnnish',
'french',
'german',
'hungarian',
'italian',

--- Strana 311 ---
'norwegian',
'porter',
'portuguese',
'romanian',
'russian',
'spanish',
'swedish')
Language_French = SnowballStemmer('french')
Language_French.stem ('Bonjoura')
Output:
'bonjour'
Language_English = SnowballStemmer('english')
Language_English.stem ('Eating')
Output:
'eat'
Language_English.stem ('Reading')
Output:
'read'

--- Strana 312 ---
Lemmatization
The lemmatization technique is similar to the stemming technique
that we have discussed before but the diﬀerence is that
lemmatization gives us the root word as output, rather than root
stem, which we usually get after stemming. The technical name of
the root word is lemma.
To achieve lemmatization, NLTK provides us WordNetLemmatizer
class. This class is a thin wrapper around the wordnet corpus,
and to ﬁnd lemma, it uses morphy() function to the Check the
following example:
import nltk
from nltk.stem import WordNetLemmatizer
ex_lemmatizer = WordNetLemmatizer()
ex_lemmatizer.lemmatize('reading')
Output:
'reading'
ex_lemmatizer.lemmatize('sweets')

--- Strana 313 ---
Output:
'sweet'

--- Strana 314 ---
Diﬀerence between lemmatization and stemming
Although both techniques look similar, technically there are some
diﬀerences between them, which are given in the following table:
table: 
table: table: table: table: table: table: table: table: table: table:
table: table: table: table: table: table: table: table: table: table:
table: table: table: table: table: table: table: table:
table: table: table: table: table: table: table: table:
Table 6.1: Diﬀerence between lemmatization and stemming
With the help of the following programming example, we will be
able to understand the diﬀerence between both the techniques
more clearly:
#Implementing Stemming
import nltk
from nltk.stem import PorterStemmer
ex_wordstemmer = PorterStemmer()
ex_wordstemmer.stem('believe')
Output:
Believ

--- Strana 315 ---
#Implementing Lemmatization
import nltk
from nltk.stem import WordNetLemmatizer
ex_lemmatizer = WordNetLemmatizer()
ex_lemmatizer.lemmatize(' believe ')
Output:
believe

--- Strana 316 ---
Understanding chunking
Chunking, one of the important processes in NLP, is used to
extract phrases from the unstructured text. In other words,
chunking is used to analyze the structure of a sentence to identify
constituents such as noun groups, verb groups, verbs, and so on.
Chunking is also called partial parsing and works on top of the
POS tagging.

--- Strana 317 ---
Importance of chunking
Do you think for text processing, simply breaking sentences into
words is going to help? We must understand that a sentence
involves various entities like a person, place, a date, a day, and
so on. and an entity alone is of no use. That’s why phrases are
more useful than individual words. Chunking does this job and
breaks sentences into phrases to yield some meaningful results.
Let’s understand this concept with the help of the hierarchical
structure of a sentence. The hierarchical structure of a sentence
consists of the following components:

--- Strana 318 ---
Figure 6.6: Hierarchical structure of a sentence
The last component is words that make up phrases. These are
the following ﬁve categories of phrases:
Noun Phrase
Verb Phrase
Adjective Phrase
Adverb Phrase
Prepositional Phrase
Once you know the categories of phrases, it is also important to
understand the phrase structure. Phrase structure is also called as
constituency grammar because it is based on the constituency
relation. The following is an example of phrase structure, which
can be understood in terms of NP and VP:

--- Strana 319 ---
Figure 6.7: Example of phrase structure
Example:
Follow the steps to implement noun–phrase chunking in Python:
Chunk grammar It is the ﬁrst step for implementing noun–phrase
chunking. Here we need to deﬁne the grammar for chunking,
which would be containing the rules that need to be followed.
Chunk parser Once you deﬁne the chunk grammar, it is time to
create a chunk parser, which will parse the grammar and produce
the output in tree format.
The following is an easy-to-understand Python recipe of chunker
based on regular expression pattern:

--- Strana 320 ---
import nltk
S = [("This", "DT"),("book", "NN"),("has","VBZ"),("ten","JJ"),
("chapters","NNS")]
chunker=nltk.RegexpParser(r'''
NP:{
<.*>*}
}{
''')
chunker.parse(S)
Output=chunker.parse(S)
Output.draw()

--- Strana 321 ---
Figure 6.8: Tree-like structure of the sentence after chunking

--- Strana 322 ---
Understanding Bag-of-Words (BoW) model
Bag-of-Words is an NLP technique of text modeling, which is used
to extract the features from the text. The BoW is a representation
of the text describing the existence of words inside a document. It
is called a bag of words because it is only concerned with the
occurrence of the words in the document and any kind of
information about the structure of words is discarded.

--- Strana 323 ---
Why the BoW algorithm?
Why do we need BoWs? Is there any issue with simple and easy
text?
We know that the text is unstructured, and Machine Learning
algorithms require structured and ﬁxed-length input data. With the
help of the BoW technique, we can easily convert raw data
(variable-length texts) into a ﬁxed-length vector.
We also know that ML algorithms work well with numeric data
rather than textual data. With the help of the BoW technique, we
can easily convert the textual data into its equivalent vector of
numbers.
Example:
The following is an example to understand how the BoW
technique converts text into vectors:
Sentence Bag-of-Words model is a very useful NLP technique.
Sentence Bag-of-Words model is used to extract the features from
the text.

--- Strana 324 ---
Considering the preceding sentences, we have the following 16
distinct words:
bag
of
words
model
is
very
useful
NLP
technique
used
to
extract

--- Strana 325 ---
the
features
from
text
We see that the vocabulary has 16 distinct words. We can use a
ﬁxed-length representation of 16 with one position in the vector
for scoring each word. The scoring method is very simple, use 1
for the presence of each word otherwise use 0.
The following table will represent the scoring of the Sentence 1:
1:
1:
1:
1:
1:
1:
1:
1:
1:
1:
1:

--- Strana 326 ---
1:
1:
1:
1:
1:
1:
Table 6.2: Scoring of the Sentence 1
We can write the preceding frequencies in vector as follows:
Sentence 1 - [1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0]
Similarly, the following table will represent the scoring of Sentence
2:
2:
2:
2:
2:
2:
2:
2:

--- Strana 327 ---
2:
2:
2:
2:
2:
2:
2:
2:
2:
2:
Table 6.3: Scoring of the Sentence 2
We can write the preceding frequencies in vector as follows:
Sentence 2 - [1,1,1,1,1,0,0,0,0,1,1,1,1,1,1,1]

--- Strana 328 ---
Implementing the BoW algorithm using Python
To implement the preceding BoW model, we will use the function
named CountVectorizer() from the Scikit-learn Python library:
from sklearn.feature_extraction.text import CountVectorizer
Sentences=['Bag of Words model is very useful NLP technique.',
'Bag of Words model is used to extract the features from text.']
vector_count = CountVectorizer()
text_feature = vector_count.ﬁt_transform(Sentences).todense()
print(vector_count.vocabulary_)
{'bag': 0, 'of': 7, 'words': 15, 'model': 5, 'is': 4, 'very': 14, 'useful':
13, 'nlp': 6, 'technique': 8, 'used': 12, 'to': 11, 'extract': 1, 'the': 10,
'features': 2, 'from': 3, 'text': 9}
print(text_ feature)
[[1 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 1]
[1 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 1 1 0 0 1]]
The preceding output represents the feature vectors, that is, text
to numeric form. They can now be used in ML algorithms.

--- Strana 329 ---
Understanding stop words
What is one of the major tasks of pre-processing? It ﬁlters out
useless data from our dataset. Isn’t it? In NLP, such useless
words are called stop words. Stop words usually refer to the most
common words in a language that does not add much meaning
to the sentence. For example, words such as

--- Strana 330 ---
When to remove stop words?
There is no hard and fast rule on when to keep unwanted words
out of our corpus. But it is recommended to remove stop words
if you want to perform tasks such as language classiﬁcation, text
classiﬁcation, sentiment analysis, spam ﬁltering, auto-tag
generation, and caption generation because while performing these
tasks, stop words do not provide any information to our model.
On the contrary, if your task is related to machine translation,
question-–answer problems, language modeling, or text
summarization, it is better to keep these unwanted words because
they may be a crucial part of these applications.

--- Strana 331 ---
Removing stop words using the NLTK library
With the help of the following example, let’s see how we can
remove the stop words using the NLTK library:
#Importing the NLTK Python library stopwords
from nltk.corpus import stopwords
from nltk.tokenize import word_tokenize
#Sentence with stop words
sample_sentence = "Hey, this is pretty cool. We will do more
such cool things."
stop_words = set(stopwords.words('english'))
text_tokens = word_tokenize(sample_sentence)
#Filtering the stop words
ﬁltered_sentence = [w for w in text_tokens if not w.lower() in
stop_words]
ﬁltered_sentence = []
for w in text_tokens:
if w not in stop_words:
ﬁltered_sentence.append(w)

--- Strana 332 ---
#Printing the sentence with stop words
print(f"Tokenized text with stop words: \n{text_tokens}")
#Printing the sentence without stop words
print(f"Tokenized text without stop words: \n{ﬁltered_sentence}")
The output of the preceding Python script is as follows:
Tokenized text with stop words:
['Hey', ',', 'this', 'is', 'pretty', 'cool', '.', 'We', 'will', 'do', 'more', 'such',
'cool', 'things', '.']
Tokenized text without stop words:
['Hey', ',', 'pretty', 'cool', '.', 'We', 'cool', 'things', '.']

--- Strana 333 ---
Understanding vectorization and transformers
Vectorization is a methodology to map words or phrases from the
vocabulary to its corresponding vector of real numbers. These
vectors of real numbers further used to ﬁnd word similarities and
word ﬁndings. In simple words, the process of converting words
into numbers is called vectorization.

--- Strana 334 ---
Vectorization techniques
The following are some of the useful vectorization techniques:
Count This is one of the simplest techniques to perform text
vectorization. In this technique, a document term matrix is
created, which is a set of dummy variables indicating whether a
particular word appears in the document or not. Each individual
cell in the document term matrix denotes the frequency (known as
term frequency) of the word in a particular document, whereas the
columns represent each word in the corpus. Let’s understand it
with an example:
Example
To implement this example, we will be using the CountVectorizer
package of Scikit-learn Python library. This package is available
under
from sklearn.feature_extraction.text import CountVectorizer
Data_corpus = [
'This book is on Artiﬁcial Intelligence.',
'This book implements programs in Python.',
'And Python is one of the best programming language.',
'Is this the ﬁrst book?',
]
Count_vectorizer = CountVectorizer()

--- Strana 335 ---
M = Count_vectorizer.ﬁt_transform(Data_corpus)
print(Count_vectorizer.get_feature_names())
print(M.toarray())
['and', 'artiﬁcial', 'best', 'book', 'ﬁrst', 'implements', 'in', 'intelligence',
'is', 'language', 'of', 'on', 'one', 'programming', 'programs', 'python',
'the', 'this']
[[0 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1]
[0 0 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1]
[1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 0]
[0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1]]
Count_vectorizer2 = CountVectorizer(analyzer='word', ngram_range=
(2, 2))
M2 = Count_vectorizer2.ﬁt_transform(corpus)
print(Count_vectorizer2.get_feature_names())
['and python', 'artiﬁcial intelligence', 'best programming', 'book
implements', 'book on', 'ﬁrst book', 'implements programs', 'in
python', 'is book', 'is one', 'is this', 'of the', 'on artiﬁcial', 'one of',
'programming language', 'programs in', 'python is', 'the best', 'the
ﬁrst', 'this book', 'this is', 'this the']
This is like the count vectorization technique because in this
technique a document term matrix is created, and each individual
cell denotes the frequency of the word in a particular document.
The diﬀerence in the N-gram method is that the columns in the
document term matrix represent all the columns of adjacent words
of length n. In simple words, we can say that count vectorization
is N-Gram where n =1.

--- Strana 336 ---
For example, “I like Artiﬁcial Intelligence” has four words, and n
=4.
For n = 2, that is, bigram, the columns would be- [“I like”, “like
Artiﬁcial”, “Artiﬁcial Intelligence”].
For n = 3, that is, trigram, the columns would be- [“I like
Artiﬁcial”, “like Artiﬁcial Intelligence”].
For n = 4, that is, four-gram, the columns would be- [“I like
Artiﬁcial Intelligence”].
The trade-oﬀ is between the number of N values because the
smaller value of N may not be suﬃcient to provide the most
useful information. In contrast, the high value of N will yield a
huge matrix with loads of features.
Term Document Frequency This technique is also similar to the
count vectorization technique because in this technique a
document term matrix is created, and each column represents an
individual unique word. TF–IDF method is diﬀerent in the sense
that along with the term frequency, each cell also contains a
weight value signifying the importance of that word for the
document. Rather than taking the consideration of a word in a
single document, it takes into consideration a word in the entire
corpus. Let’s understand Term Frequency and inverse document
frequency (IDF):

--- Strana 337 ---
Term Frequency As the name implies, it is the frequency of a
word in a document. For a speciﬁed word, TF is deﬁned as the
percentage of the number of times a word(m) occurs in a
particular document (n) divided by the total number of words in
the document. The following is the formula for ﬁnding TF:
tf (‘word’) = Frequency of ‘word’ appears in the document D/total
number of words in the document
For example, consider the following document:
Mohan loves to play cricket.
The term frequency value for the word Mohan will be tf(‘Mohan’)
= 1/5.
Inverse Document Frequency IDF measures the importance of a
particular word in the corpus, that is, how common that word is
across all the documents in the corpus. For a speciﬁed word, IDF
is deﬁned as the logarithmic ratio of the number of total
documents to the number of a document with a particular word.
The following is the formula for ﬁnding IDF:
idf(‘word’) =log(Total number of documents in corpus/number of
document with ‘word’ in it)
For example, suppose the word the is present in all the
documents in a corpus of 500 documents. Then the idf for word
the would be:

--- Strana 338 ---
idf(‘the’) = log(500/500) i.e., log(1) = 0
In this way, TF–IDF(term) = TF(term) * IDF(term).
The formula for ﬁnding TF–IDF is as follows:
Here,
is word m within document n
is the frequency of m in n
is the number of documents containing m
X is the total number of documents
Let’s understand it with an example:
Example
To implement this example, we will use the TﬁdfVectorizer package
of Scikit-learn Python library. This package is available under
from sklearn.feature_extraction.text import TﬁdfVectorizer
import pandas as pd

--- Strana 339 ---
corpus = ["this is the ﬁrst document."," this document is the
second document."," and this is the third one."," is this the ﬁrst
document."]
tﬁdfvectorizer = TﬁdfVectorizer()
vectors_list = tﬁdfvectorizer.ﬁt_transform(corpus)
feature_names = tﬁdfvectorizer.get_feature_names()
print(f"Feature Names are: \n{feature_names}")
matrix = vectors_list.todense()
list_dense = matrix.tolist()
df=pd.DataFrame(list_dense, columns=feature_names)
print(df)
The following is the output of the preceding Python script:
Feature Names are:
['and', 'document', 'ﬁrst', 'is', 'one', 'second', 'the', 'third', 'this']
       and  document     ﬁrst        is      
one    second       the  \
0  0.000000  0.469791  0.580286  0.384085  0.000000  0.0000
00  0.384085  
1  0.000000  0.687624  0.000000  0.281089  0.000000  0.5386
48  0.281089  
2  0.511849  0.000000  0.000000  0.267104  0.511849  0.00000
0  0.267104  
3  0.000000  0.469791  0.580286  0.384085  0.000000  0.0000
00  0.384085  
     third      this  
0  0.000000  0.384085  
1  0.000000  0.281089  

--- Strana 340 ---
2  0.511849  0.267104  
3  0.000000  0.384085  

--- Strana 341 ---
Transformers
The paper titled Attention is All You introduces a novel concept in
NLP called Transformers. It aims to solve seq2seq (sequence-to-
sequence) tasks along with handling the long-range dependencies
with ease.
Read the following quotation from the previously mentioned paper:
“The Transformer is the ﬁrst transduction model relying entirely on
self-attention to compute representations of its input and output
without using sequence-aligned RNNs or convolution.”
The transduction here means the conversion of the input sequence
to the output sequence; hence, we can say that the basic concept
of a Transformer is to handle the dependencies between input and
output with self-attention and recurrence.
Let’s understand the meaning of self-attention. According to the
previously mentioned paper:
“Self-attention, sometimes called intra-attention, is an attention
mechanism relating diﬀerent positions of a single sequence in order to
compute a representation of the sequence.”

--- Strana 342 ---
Figure 6.9: Understanding self-attention
Look at Figure 6.9 and try to ﬁgure out what the term it refers
to? Is it referring to the coﬀee or It’s simple for human beings
but not for an algorithm to answer. When the NLP model
processing the word self-attention tries to associate it with
In simple words, to get a better understanding of a speciﬁed
word in the sequence, self-attention allows the NLP model to
check other words in the input sequence.
We will use the TﬁdfTransformer package of Scikit-learn Python
library for our examples in the next section. This package will
transform a count matrix to normalized Term Frequency or Term
Document Frequency representation.

--- Strana 343 ---
Some examples
In this section, we are going to solve two simple but useful NLP
examples, namely, Predicting the category and Gender ﬁnding by
using the Python programming language.

--- Strana 344 ---
Predicting the category
Every word is important but categorizing the document is equally
important. Categorizing a document means in which category of
text a word falls. For example, we want to predict the given
sentence falls in which category like email, sports, business, and
so on. For our following example, we will be using 20 newsgroup
datasets from the Scikit-learn Python library:
#Import the required packages
from sklearn.datasets import fetch_20newsgroups
from sklearn.naive_bayes import MultinomialNB
from sklearn.feature_extraction.text import TﬁdfTransformer
from sklearn.feature_extraction.text import CountVectorizer
#Deﬁning ﬁve diﬀerent category maps
c_map = {'talk.religion.misc': 'Religion', 'rec.autos':
'Autos','rec.sport.hockey':'Hockey','sci.electronics':'Electronics',
'sci.space': 'Space'}
#Creating the training set
t_data = fetch_20newsgroups(subset='train',
categories=c_map.keys(), shuﬄe=True, random_state=5)
#Building a count vectorizer and extracting the term counts
v_count = CountVectorizer()
train_tc = v_count.ﬁt_transform(t_data.data)

--- Strana 345 ---
print("\nDimensions of training data:", train_tc.shape)
#Creating tf-idf transformer
tﬁdf = TﬁdfTransformer()
train_tﬁdf = tﬁdf.ﬁt_transform(train_tc)
#Deﬁning the test data
input_data = [
'Columbia is the name of a space shuttle',
'Hindu, isai, Sikh, Muslim all are religions',
'We should drive safely',
'Puck is a round disk made of hard rubber',
'Television, Microwave, Mixer Grinder, Refrigerator, all uses
electricity']
#Multinomial Naïve Bayes classiﬁer training
classiﬁer = MultinomialNB().ﬁt(train_tﬁdf, t_data.target)
#Transforming input data by using count vectorizer
input_tc = v_count.transform(input_data)
#Transforming vectorized data by using tf-idf transformer
input_tﬁdf = tﬁdf.transform(input_tc)
#Predicting output categories
predictions = classiﬁer.predict(input_tﬁdf)
for sent, category in zip(input_data, predictions):
print('\nThe Input Data is:', sent, '\n Category:', \
c_map[t_data.target_names[category]])

--- Strana 346 ---
In the preceding program, ﬁrst, we fetch the Sklearn 20newsgroup
dataset and other useful packages. As we will be predicting the
categories, we need to deﬁne diﬀerent categories. We are deﬁning
ﬁve categories for this program. After that, we are creating the
training set from our dataset.
Once done with the training set, we need to extract the term
counts and for this, we build a count vectorizer by using Sklearn
CountVectorizer() package. We now need to deﬁne the transformer
and we are using the Sklearn TF-–IDF transformer. Along with the
training set, the classiﬁer also needs the test data. Hence, next,
we will deﬁne the test dataset.
Now we need to ﬁt the model and here, for this task, we are
using a multinomial Naïve Bayes classiﬁer. Next, we need to
vectorize our input data by using a count vectorizer. After this, we
need to pass this vectorize data to TF–IDF transformer to
transform this data. At last, we will use the predict() function to
predict the output categories.
Output:
The following is the output of the preceding Python script:

--- Strana 347 ---
Figure 6.10: Predicted Output Categories

--- Strana 348 ---
Gender ﬁnding
This example is to train a classiﬁer that will predict the gender by
providing names of males and females. First, the classiﬁer will
decide what features of the input are valid. Second, the classiﬁer
will decide how it can encode those features. We need to create a
feature extractor function that will build a dictionary containing
appropriate data about a given name (male or female).
#Import the required packages
import random
from nltk.corpus import names
from nltk import NaiveBayesClassiﬁer
from nltk.classify import accuracy
#Deﬁning the function to calculate features
def features(name):
name = name.lower()
return {
'last_char': name[-1],
'last_two': name[-2:],
'last_three': name[-3:],
'ﬁrst': name[0],
'ﬁrst2': name[:2]
}
names_M = [(name, 'male') for name in
names.words(r"C:/Users/Leekha/Desktop/malenames.txt")]

--- Strana 349 ---
names_F = [(name, 'female') for name in
names.words(r"C:/Users/Leekha/Desktop/femalenames.txt")]
names_labels = names_M + names_F
random.shuﬄe(labeled_names)
# Splitting the dataset into training set and testing set.
train_set, test_set = featuresets[500:], featuresets[:500]
# Training the Naive Bayes classiﬁer
classiﬁer = NaiveBayesClassiﬁer.train(train_set)
male_gender = classiﬁer.classify(features('Aarav'))
female_gender = classiﬁer.classify(features('Shilpi'))
print("Aarav is a {}.".format(male_gender))
print("Shilpi is a {}.".format(female_gender))
#Getting the accuracy
print(accuracy(classiﬁer, test_set))
#Printing ﬁrst 15 feature sets
classiﬁer.show_most_informative_features(15)
Output:

--- Strana 350 ---
Figure 6.11: Predicted Genders

--- Strana 351 ---
Conclusion
In this chapter, we learned about the basic concept of Natural
Language Processing (NLP) and implement some of its examples
in the Python programming language. We got to know that NLP, a
ﬁeld of Artiﬁcial Intelligence, concerns with enabling machines to
comprehend and process the language in which we communicate,
that is, our natural language. We also came to know about the
working of NLP. We understood four phases of NLP, namely,
morphological analysis, syntactic analysis, semantic analysis, and
pragmatic analysis.
From the implementation perspective in the Python programming
language, we discussed an extremely useful package called NLTK.
You also learned the commands to install this package and its
corpus/dataset on various operating systems. We also discussed
some of the important concepts, such as tokenization, stemming,
and lemmatization. We also implanted them by using the Python’s
NLTK package.
We also understood one important process of NLP called
chunking, which is used to analyze the structure of a sentence to
identify the constituents such as noun groups, verb groups, verbs,
and so on. We also discussed phrase structure with the help of
an example and implemented it in the Python programming
language.

--- Strana 352 ---
The BoW model, an important and most used model in NLP, is
also discussed. It is used to extract the features from the text so
that we can provide structured and ﬁxed-length input data to ML
algorithms. We also implemented an example of the BoW model
by using the Python’s Scikit-learn library.
You can use NLP to solve a variety of problems and build a
variety of applications. With the help of two useful implementation
examples, namely, Predicting the category and Gender we learned
how to solve problems in this domain.
In the next chapter, you will learn about the basic concept of
speech recognition along with its implementation in the Python
programming language.

--- Strana 353 ---
Questions
What is Natural Language Processing (NLP)? How does it work?
Explain various phases of NLP.
What is tokenization? How do you implement it by using the
NLTK package?
What is stemming? Explain along with examples the various
stemming algorithms provided by the NLTK package?
What is lemmatization? Explain the diﬀerence between Stemming
and Lemmatization.
Deﬁne chunking. How can we implement it in Python?
What is Bag-of-Words (BoW) model? Explain its importance with
the help of an example.
What are stop words in NLP? How can we remove them by using
the NLTK python package?
What is Vectorization? Explain various vectorization techniques with
examples.

--- Strana 354 ---
Explain the concept of Transformers in NLP.
______________________________
1 https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03762

--- Strana 355 ---
CHAPTER 7
Implementing Speech Recognition with Python

--- Strana 356 ---
Introduction
Other than our natural language, what else plays a prominent role
in human–human interaction? It is speech, isn’t it? That is why it
is quite natural for us to expect speech interfaces with machines.
Over the last four decades, to ease the communication barrier
between humans and machines, speech technology has come into
existence. But over the past 6 to 7 years, I am sure everyone has
doubtlessly noticed a quantum jump in the quality of a wide
range of speech-enabled personal assistants like Amazon’s Alexa,
Apples’ Siri, Google Assistant, or Microsoft’s Cortana, and voice-
activated appliances as well as other similar technology around us.
Likewise, soon, more than half of all the web searches will be
done by voice.
In this chapter, we are going to learn about speech recognition, a
technology that has unbelievable achievements from the ﬁrst
laboratory model to the commercial products available in the
market today. You will also get to know about building a speech
recognizer using the Python programming language. We will also
discuss about the diﬃculties that one can face while developing a
speech recognition system.

--- Strana 357 ---
Structure
This chapter is structured as follows:
Basics of speech recognition
Working of the speech recognition system
Building a speech recognizer
Diﬃculties while developing a speech recognition system
Visualization of audio signals
Characterization of the audio signal
Monotone audio signal generation
Extraction of features from speech
Recognition of spoken words

--- Strana 358 ---
Objective
The main objective of this chapter is to make you understand
how you can develop a speech recognition system in the Python
programming language. But before that, you must know about the
basics and working of the speech recognition system. This chapter
will fulﬁll this objective too. Last but not the least, this chapter
will also make you aware of the diﬃculties you can face while
developing an ASR system.

--- Strana 359 ---
Basics of speech recognition
In the present era, among the tasks with the help of which we
can interact with machines in our spoken language, automatic
speech recognition that is also known as computer speech
recognition is one of the fastest-growing and most commercially
promising techniques. Speech recognition that allows the machines
to identify the words, phrases, and sentences human beings speak
is the ﬁrst task among the three tasks of speech processing. The
other two tasks consist of Natural Language Processing (allows
machines to read, understand, and make sense of human
languages) and Speech Synthesis (allows machines to convert
normal language text into speech). In this chapter, we will focus
on speech recognition.

--- Strana 360 ---
Working of the speech recognition system
The following ﬁgure depicts the structure of a speech recognition
system:
Figure 7.1: Structure of speech recognition system
The speech recognition system consists of the following two parts:
Front-end processing
Back-end processing
Front-end processing

--- Strana 361 ---
Front-end processing consists of two techniques, namely,
preprocessing and feature extraction. Let’s discuss them in detail.
Preprocessing
The ﬁrst part of a speech recognition system is preprocessing,
which covers the following tasks:
Analog-to-digital conversion
Background noise ﬁltering
Pre-emphasis
Blocking
Windowing
Typically, a speech signal is a stream of 8-bit numbers at the rate
of 10,000 numbers per second. It is a large amount of data and
one of the biggest challenges of a speech recognition system is to
reduce this huge data to some manageable representation. After
the conversion of this electric signal conversion, next, it will ﬁlter
the background noise and keep the SNR say greater than 40
decibels.
Once background noise ﬁltration is completed, it spectrally ﬂattens
the signal. This is called pre-emphasis, which actually ampliﬁes the

--- Strana 362 ---
important areas of the spectrum. For example, in the spectrum
region of 1KHz to 5KHz, hearing is more sensitive. By assisting
the spectral analysis algorithm, pre-emphasis will amplify this area
of the spectrum.
Feature extraction
As the name implies, feature extraction is used to ﬁnd features of
an utterance having acoustic correlations in the speech signal.
These features can be computed on a frame-by-frame basis by
using several feature extraction techniques. The following are some
of the most used feature extraction techniques:
Linear predictive cepstral coeﬃcient In the time domain, the LPCC
model of speech production is given in following equation:
In the preceding equation,
s[n] denotes the speech signal samples,
a[k] are the predictor coeﬃcients,
The total squared prediction error is given in the following
equation:

--- Strana 363 ---
Here p is the order of the predictor.
The main objective of linear predictive analysis is to determine the
coeﬃcients a[k] for every speech frame in such a way that error is
minimized.
Now, given the LPC coeﬃcients the LPCC coeﬃcients are
computed using recursion as follows:
These coeﬃcients for every window of the speech will be used as
features of the speech recognizer.
Mel frequency cepstral coeﬃcient It may be deﬁned as the real
cepstrum of a windowed short-term signal derived from the fast
Fourier transform of that signal. Block ﬁgure of MFCC is depicted
in the following ﬁgure:

--- Strana 364 ---
Figure 7.2: Block diagram of MFCC
The following are the given steps to compute MFCC feature
vectors:
A 39-dimensional MFCC feature vector is computed from 25 ms of
a window with 51 ms overlap using the following steps:
Pre-emphasize and weight the speech signal by a Hamming
window. The Hamming window is deﬁned as:
Where n is the total number of samples in an interval.
Now, take the Fourier transform of the weighted signals.

--- Strana 365 ---
Next, average the spectral magnitude values using a triangular
window at uniform spaces on the Mel-scale to consider auditory
characteristics. The Mel-scale is deﬁned in the following equation:
Where 𝑓 is the frequency in hertz.
Take a logarithm of the averaged spectral values. The convolution
between sound source (pitch) and articulation (vocal tract impulse
response) becomes addition due to the logarithm operations.
Take the inverse Fourier transform of the logarithmic spectral
values. Remove the ﬁrst coeﬃcient and weight the next 12 cepstral
coeﬃcients using the following formula:
Where is the cepstral coeﬃcient and l is the liftering coeﬃcient.
Append normalized frame energy, producing a 13-dimensional
feature vector.
Compute the ﬁrst- and the second-order time derivatives of the 13
coeﬃcients using the following regression formula:

--- Strana 366 ---
Where t is the time, and and represents the following and
previous cepstral coeﬃcients in the time frame, respectively. The
derivatives are appended to the original MFCCs, producing a 39-
dimensional feature vector for every frame.
Perceptual linear prediction PLP technique is based on the
variation of LPC, which we discussed before. Considering human
auditory perceptions, in PLP the critical ﬁlter bank consists of 17
ﬁlters spaced by one Bark on the Bark scale along with a
frequency range of 0-5 kHz. The carrier frequency is deﬁned by
the following equation:
Here, f is the frequency in Hz and z covers the range of 0-5 kHz
by the 17 band pass ﬁlters i.e., 0 ≤ z ≤ 17 Bark. Each band is
simulated by a spectral weighting, as shown in the following
equation:

--- Strana 367 ---
Here, = - 0.5 and are the center frequencies. The beneﬁt of this
analysis is that it signiﬁcantly improves recognition accuracy,
especially in multi-speaker recognition.
Back-end processing
Back-end processing mainly involves pattern recognition, which will
compare the feature vectors extracted in the front end with the
machine’s knowledge of speech. For pattern recognition, back-end
processing constructs a language and an acoustic model. Let’s
discuss both of these models in detail.
Acoustic modeling
Acoustic modeling is used to establish a connection between
acoustic information and phonetics. As we know that speech is a
temporal signal, the speech unit is mapped to its acoustic
counterpart using temporal models. Some of the most used
models for acoustic modeling are HMM Markov ANN Neural and
DBN Bayesian
Language modeling
The main goal of language modeling is to generate the
probabilities of a word W for which it uses the structural
constraints available in the language. Language modeling uses the
following two approaches:

--- Strana 368 ---
Grammar-based For small vocabulary constraints tasks such as
phone dialing, it uses the grammar-based approach.
Stochastic On the other hand, for large vocabulary constraints
tasks such as broadcast news transcription, it uses the stochastic
approach.

--- Strana 369 ---
Building a speech recognizer
One of the centers of attention for artiﬁcial intelligence projects
like robotics is ASR (automatic speech recognition). Without
speech recognition, we cannot even imagine the cognitive
interaction of humans and machines, especially robots. In this
section, we will learn how to develop a speech recognizer in the
Python programming language. But building a speech recognizer is
not an easy task. It has a lot of diﬃculties and before deep
diving into building a speech recognizer, we will ﬁrst discuss
about the diﬃculties.

--- Strana 370 ---
Diﬃculties while developing a speech recognition system
The following are some of the diﬃculties the developer might face
while developing a speech recognition system:
Vocabulary Vocabulary size plays an important role in the success
of a speech recognizer. The larger the size of the vocabulary, the
harder it would be to recognize that. For example, for a voice-
menu system, we need a small vocabulary size containing 2-100
words and on the other hand for a database retrieval task, we
need a large vocabulary size containing around 10,000 words.
Channel Another important dimension that plays an important role
is the characteristics of the channel. If we talk about human
speech, we need high bandwidth with full frequency, whereas in
the case of telephone speech, we need low bandwidth with limited
frequency. It is tough to recognize telephonic speech.
Mode of We have three modes of speech-isolated, connected, and
continuous speech. Among these three, continuous speech is
tough to recognize.
Style of We have three styles of speech-formal, spontaneous, and
conversational speech. Among these three, conversational speech is
tough to recognize.

--- Strana 371 ---
Speech recognition is aﬀected by signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), which
can be high (>30 dB), medium (between 30 and 10 dB), and low
(< 10dB). It is also aﬀected by the type of background noise like
stationary, and crosstalk by other speakers.
Now, let’s understand various steps to build a speech recognizer:

--- Strana 372 ---
Visualization of audio signals
This is the ﬁrst step in building a speech recognizer. With the
help of this step, we can understand the structure of an audio
signal. Recording and sampling are the two sub-steps to be
followed while visualizing audio signals. A recording is needed in
case if you want to read the audio signal from a ﬁle. Sampling is
required to convert digitized signals into discrete numerical form.
We should do sampling at a certain frequency because high
frequency makes it feel as a continuous audio signal.
In the following example, by using the Python programming
language, we will analyze an audio signal that is stored in a ﬁle.
#importing necessary packages
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from scipy.io import wavﬁle
#Reading the stored audio ﬁle, returning sampling frequency and
audio signal
freq_sampling, audio_sig =
wavﬁle.read("C:/Users/Leekha/Desktop/audio_Harvard.wav")
#Displaying various parameters of the audio signal
print('\nSignal shape:', audio_sig.shape)
print('Signal Datatype:', audio_sig.dtype)

--- Strana 373 ---
print('Signal duration:', round(audio_sig.shape[0] /
ﬂoat(freq_sampling), 2), 'seconds')
#Normalizing the audio signal
audio_sig = audio_sig / np.power(2, 15)
#To visualize the signal, extracting ﬁrst 200 values from it
audio_sig = audio_sig [:200]
time_axis = 1000 * np.arange(0, len(audio_sig), 1) /
ﬂoat(freq_sampling)
#Now, let’s visualize the stored audio signal
plt.plot(time_axis, audio_sig, color='red')
plt.xlabel('Time (ms)')
plt.ylabel('Amplitude')
plt.title('Audio Signal')
plt.show()
Output:
Signal shape: (445699,)
Signal Datatype: int16
Signal duration: 55.71 seconds

--- Strana 374 ---
Figure 7.3: Visualization of the audio signal

--- Strana 375 ---
Characterization of the audio signal
Characterization of the audio signal is another important step in
which we will convert time-domain signal into a frequency domain.
For such transformation, we use a mathematical tool named
Fourier Transform.
Now, let’s characterize the audio signal we have used previously
for visualization purposes:
#importing necessary packages
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from scipy.io import wavﬁle
#Reading the stored audio ﬁle, returning sampling frequency and
audio signal
freq_sampling, audio_sig =
wavﬁle.read("C:/Users/Leekha/Desktop/audio_Harvard.wav")
#Displaying various parameters of the audio signal
print('\nSignal shape:', audio_sig.shape)
print('Signal Datatype:', audio_sig.dtype)
print('Signal duration:', round(audio_sig.shape[0] /
ﬂoat(freq_sampling), 2), 'seconds')
#Normalizing the audio signal

--- Strana 376 ---
audio_sig = audio_sig / np.power(2, 15)
#Extracting length and half length of the signal
len_signal = len(audio_sig)
half_len = np.ceil((len_signal + 1) / 2.0).astype(np.int)
#Using Fourier Transform
signal_frequency = np.ﬀt.ﬀt(audio_sig)
#Normalizing frequency domain signal
signal_frequency = abs(signal_frequency[0:half_len]) / length_signal
signal_frequency **= 2
#Extracting length and half length of the frequency transformed
signal
len_fts = len(signal_frequency)
#Adjusting Fourier transformed signal for both even and odd case:
if len_signal % 2:
signal_frequency[1:len_fts] *= 2
else:
signal_frequency[1:len_fts-1] *= 2
#Extracting the power in dB and measuring frequency in kHz for
x-axis
signal_power = 10 * np.log10(signal_frequency)
x_axis = np.arange(0, half_len, 1) * (freq_sampling / len_signal) /
1000.0

--- Strana 377 ---
#Visualizing characterized signal
plt.ﬁgure()
plt.plot(x_axis, signal_power, color='green')
plt.xlabel('Frequency (kHz)')
plt.ylabel('Signal power (dB)')
plt.show()
Output:
Signal shape: (445699,)
Signal Datatype: int16
Signal duration: 55.71 seconds
Figure 7.4: Characterization of an audio signal

--- Strana 378 ---
Monotone audio signal generation
Here we will be generating the audio signal with some predeﬁned
parameters:
#importing necessary packages
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from scipy.io.wavﬁle import write
#File for saving the output audio signal
ﬁle_output =
"C:/Users/Leekha/Desktop/audio_Harvard_monotone.wav"
#Specifying the parameters
duration = 35 # in seconds
freq_sampling = 44100 # in Hz
freq_tone = 784
min_val = -4 * np.pi
max_val = 4 * np.pi
#Generating the audio signal
t = np.linspace(min_val, max_val, duration * freq_sampling)
audio_sig = np.sin(2 * np.pi * freq_tone * t)
#Saving the audio signal ﬁle in the output ﬁle
write(ﬁle_output, freq_sampling, audio_sig)

--- Strana 379 ---
#Extracting ﬁrst 200 values for our graph
audio_sig = audio_sig[:200]
time_axis = 1000 * np.arange(0, len(audio_sig), 1) /
ﬂoat(freq_sampling)
#Visualizing the generated audio signal
plt.plot(time_axis, audio_sig, color='red')
plt.xlabel('Time in milliseconds')
plt.ylabel('Amplitude')
plt.title('Generated audio signal')
plt.show()
Output:
Figure 7.5: Monotone audio signal

--- Strana 380 ---
Extraction of features from speech
After converting the speech signal into the frequency domain, we
need to extract its features. Feature extraction is one of the most
important steps in building the speech recognizer. There are
various techniques such as MFCC, PLP, PLP–RASTA, which can be
used for this task. For our example, we will use the MFCC feature
extraction technique.
#importing necessary packages
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from scipy.io import wavﬁle
from python_speech_features import mfcc, logfbank
#Reading the stored audio ﬁle, returning sampling frequency and
audio signal
freq_sampling, audio_sig =
wavﬁle.read("C:/Users/Leekha/Desktop/audio_Harvard.wav")
#Taking ﬁrst 15000 samples for analysis
audio_sig = audio_sig[:15000]
#Exatracting MFCC features and printing its parameters
mfcc_features = mfcc(audio_sig, freq_sampling)
print('\nMFCC:\nNumber of windows =', mfcc_features.shape[0])
print('Length of each feature =', mfcc_features.shape[1])

--- Strana 381 ---
Output:
MFCC:
Number of windows = 186
Length of each feature = 13
#Plotting and visualizing the MFCC features
mfcc_features = mfcc_features.T
plt.matshow(mfcc_features)
plt.title('MFCC')
Output:
Text(0.5, 1.05, 'MFCC')
Figure 7.6: MFCC features
#Exatracting Filter bank features and printing its parameters
ﬁlterbank_features = logfbank(audio_sig, freq_sampling)
print('\nFilter bank:\nNumber of windows =',
ﬁlterbank_features.shape[0])
print('Length of each feature =', ﬁlterbank_features.shape[1])
Output:

--- Strana 382 ---
Filter bank:
Number of windows = 186
Length of each feature = 26
#Plotting and visualizing the Filterbank features
ﬁlterbank_features = ﬁlterbank_features.T
plt.matshow(ﬁlterbank_features)
plt.title('Filter bank')
plt.show()
Output:
Figure 7.7: Filter bank features

--- Strana 383 ---
Recognition of spoken words
For recognizing the spoken words, we will use Google Speech API
in Python. For our example, we need to install the following
Python packages:
The command to install PyAudio package is pip install
The command to install SpeechRecognition package is pip install
The command to install Google-Speech-API package is pip install
#importing necessary packages
import speech_recognition as srec
#creating an object
recording = srec.Recognizer()
#voice will be taken by Microphone() module as input
with srec.Microphone() as source:
recording.adjust_for_ambient_noise(source)
print("Say something:")
audio = recording.listen(source)
#Google API will recognize the voice and provide output

--- Strana 384 ---
try:
print("What you said is: \n" + recording.recognize_google(audio))
except Exception as e:
print(e)
Output:
Say something:
What you said is:
speech recognition example

--- Strana 385 ---
Conclusion
In this chapter, we learned about the basics of speech recognition
and how to build a speech recognizer in the Python programming
language. We got to know that speech recognition, which is one
of the fastest-growing and most commercially promising
techniques, is the ﬁrst task among the three tasks of speech
processing. It allows the machines to identify the words, phrases,
and sentences human beings speak. We also came to know about
the working of speech recognition system under which we
understood its two parts, namely, front-end processing and back-
end processing.
From the implementation perspective, we learned how to develop
a speech recognizer in the Python programming language. We
discussed the diﬃculties one can face while developing the speech
recognition system. Vocabulary size, channel quality, speaking
mode, speaking style, and type of noise are some of the common
diﬃculties. In the next chapter, you will learn about the basic
concepts of Artiﬁcial Neural Network along with its
implementation in the Python programming language.

--- Strana 386 ---
Questions
What is automatic speech recognition (ASR)? How does it work?
What is feature extraction? Explain along with any two feature
extraction techniques.
What is the role of acoustic modeling and language modeling in
speech recognition? Explain.
What are some of the common diﬃculties one can face while
building a speech recognition system?
Write down the Python program to extract features from a speech
by using the MFCC feature extraction technique.
Write down the Python program for recognizing spoken words by
using Google-Speech-API.

--- Strana 387 ---
CHAPTER 8
Implementing Artiﬁcial Neural Network (ANN) with Python

--- Strana 388 ---
Introduction
Hubots – are they some kind of humans or machines?
Human beings, with their intelligence, can quickly ﬁnd the answer
to the previous question. In fact, we humans can easily tell the
diﬀerence between the two of them. Do you think a machine can
tell the right answer?
Yes, machines can also tell the right answer but for making such
predictions correctly, it must rely on algorithms like the Artiﬁcial
Neural Network which is inspired by the way our brain processes
information by managing nonlinear relationships between inputs
and outputs. There are both surprising similarities and diﬀerences
in how humans think and how machines learn.
In this chapter, we will learn about the ANN, an eﬃcient
computing system whose central theme is borrowed from the
biological nervous system. You will also get to know about the
Python packages, which are useful for constructing the ANNs.
With the help of some examples, we will understand how to
construct the ANNs.

--- Strana 389 ---
Structure
In this chapter, we will cover the following topics:
Understanding of Artiﬁcial Neural Network
Installing useful Python packages for ANN
Examples of building some neural networks:
Perceptron-based classiﬁer
Single-layer neural networks
Multi-layer neural networks
Vector quantization

--- Strana 390 ---
Objective
The main objective of this chapter is to make the learner
understand how they can construct ANN in the Python
programming language. The learner will understand the basic
concepts of ANN along with some useful Python packages for
building ANNs. The learner will also be able to build neural
networks such as Perceptron-based classiﬁers, single-layer neural
networks, multi-layer neural networks, and vector quantization.

--- Strana 391 ---
Understanding of Artiﬁcial Neural Network (ANN)
ANNs are those computational models that are inspired by the
way the human brain processes information using the biological
nervous system. In other words, we can say that the ANN is a
biologically inspired network of artiﬁcial neurons conﬁgured to
process the nonlinear relationship between inputs and outputs in
parallel like our brain does. Therefore, the ANNs are sometimes
termed as Artiﬁcial Neural Systems and Parallel Distributed
Processing
To understand the working of the ANN, we ﬁrst need to
understand the working of the human brain, that is, how our
brain processes information using biological neurons.

--- Strana 392 ---
A biological neuron
Does the following ﬁgure come into your mind when you hear the
word neural network?
Figure 8.1: Biological neuron credit: https://towardsdatascience.com
As you can see in the preceding ﬁgure, a biological neuron
consists of the following four parts:
Dendrites, which look like branches of a tree, are responsible for
receiving signals from other neurons they are connected to.
It is located inside the cell body of a neuron. Its key task is to
sum all the signals received from dendrites and generate the

--- Strana 393 ---
input.
It is just like a wire through which a signal travels from one
neuron to another.
It is the point of interconnection between two neurons. The higher
the synaptic weight of the connections, the higher the amount of
signal that will be transmitted between neurons. Based on weights,
there are two types of synapses:
Excitatory A synapse is known as excitatory if the corresponding
synaptic weight is positive.
Inhibitory A synapse is known as inhibitory if the corresponding
synaptic weight is negative.
For better understanding, the ﬁgure depicting the model of a
biological neuron is shown here:

--- Strana 394 ---
Figure 8.2: Model of a biological neuron

--- Strana 395 ---
Working of ANN
The following is the diagram of an ANN (refer ﬁgure
Figure 8.3: Artiﬁcial Neural Network
From the preceding ﬁgure, we can see that the ANNs are a kind
of weighted directed graph. The nodes are formed by artiﬁcial
neurons and directed edges are connections between neuron
inputs and outputs. These directed edges are having weights
(representing the strength of interconnection among artiﬁcial
neurons) on them.

--- Strana 396 ---
Now let us understand the working of the ANNs with the help of
the following steps:
First, it receives the input signal in various forms of information.
Once received, each input then is multiplied by its corresponding
weight.
Now, all the weighted inputs will be summed up inside the
artiﬁcial neuron, that is, the computing unit. Here, suppose if the
weighted sum is zero, a bias will be added to make the output
non-zero. The weight of the bias is always equal to 1.
At last, the sum of weighted inputs will be passed through an
activation function.
Here the question arises as to what is an activation function?
To obtain the desired output, we need to apply some set of
transfer functions applied over the input. These sets of transfer
functions are called activation functions.
Let’s see some of the most commonly used activation functions
(broadly divided into two categories, linear and nonlinear):
Linear

--- Strana 397 ---
Such activation functions are also called identity activation
functions because the equation they have is similar to that of a
straight line.
F(x) = x
inﬁnity to +inﬁnity
It is used only at the output layer that is, the last layer of
neurons in ANN. The output layer produces the given outputs for
the program.
The following ﬁgure depicts the linear activation function:
Figure 8.4: Linear activation function
Nonlinear
The following are some of the nonlinear activation functions:

--- Strana 398 ---
Sigmoid It is a kind of nonlinear activation function having an S-
shaped curve, as shown in ﬁgure
F(x) = sigm(x) =
0 to 1 (another commonly used range for sigmoid activation
function is from -1 to 1).
It is mainly used in the output layer for binary classiﬁcation,
which refers to predicting one of two classes.
The following ﬁgure depicts the sigmoid activation function:
Figure 8.5: Sigmoid activation function
Tangent hyperbolic (Tanh): It is also a nonlinear activation function
having an S-shaped curve. It is basically a mathematically shifted
version of the sigmoid (logistic) activation function with the
additional value ranging from 0 to -1.0. This additional value is

--- Strana 399 ---
useful in the case when the input values to the network are
negative.
F(x) = tanh(x) =
-1 to 1
It is mainly used in the hidden layer for classiﬁcation between two
classes.
The following ﬁgure depicts the Tanh activation function:
Figure 8.6: Tanh activation function
RELU (Rectiﬁed Linear RELU, also a nonlinear activation function,
is the most widely used activation function because of having a
less computationally expensive nature than the Tanh and the
sigmoid activation functions.
F(x) = max(0, x), that is, it gives an output = x if x is positive
an 0 otherwise.

--- Strana 400 ---
(0, inﬁnity).
It is used in almost all Convolutional Neural Networks
The following ﬁgure depicts the RELU activation function:
Figure 8.7: RELU activation function
Leaky ReLU activation Leaky ReLU function is an improved version
of the ReLU activation function, which addresses one of the
biggest problems of the latter. As we know, in the ReLU activation
function, the gradient is 0 for all the negative values of inputs(x),
which further may lead to a dead ReLU problem, that is, the
neurons get dead in that region.
Rather than deﬁning the function as 0, the leaky ReLU activation
function deﬁnes the function as an extremely small linear
component of input(x). It means this activation function returns
output for negative values as well. Therefore, we would not

--- Strana 401 ---
encounter the problem of dead neurons in that region. The
following is the formula for leaky ReLU function:
f(x)= max (0.01*x,x)
The following table depicts the analogies between Biological
Neuron Model and Artiﬁcial Neuron model
Table 8.1: BNN versus ANN

--- Strana 402 ---
The basic structure of ANN
ANNs are composed of layers of artiﬁcial neurons called units,
organized in interconnected layers, where each artiﬁcial neuron can
make simple decisions and feed those decisions to other neurons.
The following ﬁgure depicts the working of interconnected layers
comprised in an ANN framework:
Figure 8.8: Basic structure of ANN
The explanation of three interconnected layers comprised in an
ANN framework is as follows:

--- Strana 403 ---
Input As the name implies, this layer contains those neurons/units
that receive input in various forms of information from the
outside world.
Hidden Hidden layer is an intermediate layer between input and
output layers. It contains the neurons/units that process the
inputs obtained by its previous layer. The activation function is
also applied over this layer.
Output As the name implies, the neurons/units in the output
layer collect and transmit the information exactly as it has been
designed to give.
The one thing that should be kept in mind is the connection
between units/neurons of adjacent layers having ‘weights’
associated with them.

--- Strana 404 ---
Types of ANNs
The following table consists of various types of ANNs. The factors
used are network topology, number of hidden layers, weights, and
memory unit:
unit: unit: unit:
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit:
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit:
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit:
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit:
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit:
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit:
unit: unit: 
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit:
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit:
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit:
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit:
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit:
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit:
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit:
unit: unit: unit: unit: 
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit:
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit:

--- Strana 405 ---
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit:
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: 
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit:
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit:
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit:
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit:
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit:
unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: unit: 
Table 8.2: Types of ANN

--- Strana 406 ---
Optimizers for training the neural network
Optimizers may be deﬁned as the algorithms or methods to
update various parameters, such as weights and learning rate, of
your NN to minimize an error function (loss function).
This section will walk you through various types of optimizers:

--- Strana 407 ---
Gradient descent
Gradient descent, the most basic but most used optimization
method, is a ﬁrst-order optimization algorithm that depends on
the ﬁrst-order derivative of a loss function. This approach reduces
a loss function by moving in the direction opposite to that of the
steepest ascent and achieve the minima. Gradient descent is also
adopted in backpropagation in NN where the loss is transferred
from one layer to another and the parameter i.e., weights are
updated depending upon when the minimum loss is achieved. The
following is the mathematical equation of gradient descent:
Where W represents the weight and α represents the learning rate.
Advantages of Gradient descent:
Easy to understand.
The computation is easy.
Disadvantages of Gradient descent:
It may trap at local minima.

--- Strana 408 ---
As this method calculates the gradient for the whole datasetin one
update, it may take months or years to converge to the minima if
the dataset is too large.
It requires large memory.

--- Strana 409 ---
Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD)
SGD is a variant of gradient descent. It updates the model’s
parameters one by one and more frequently. For example, if our
dataset is having 10000 rows, the stochastic gradient descent
algorithm will update the model’s parameters 10000 times in one
cycle of dataset rather than in one time in the gradient descent.
Advantages of Stochastic gradient descent:
It converges in less time.
It requires less memory.
Disadvantages of gradient descent:
The frequent update of the model parameter may result in a noisy
gradient.
It becomes computationally expensive because of frequent updates.
High variance.

--- Strana 410 ---
Mini-Batch Gradient Descent
Mini-Batch gradient descent, a combination of the concepts of
batch gradient descent and SGD, splits the training dataset into
small batches and performs an update after every batch.
Advantages of Mini-Batch gradient descent:
Less variance.
It requires a medium amount of memory.
It performs more eﬃcient gradient calculations.
Disadvantages of Mini-Batch gradient descent:
It does not guarantee good convergence.
The smaller the learning rate the slower will be the convergence
rate.

--- Strana 411 ---
Stochastic Gradient Descent with Momentum
As the name entails, it is a stochastic optimization method that
adds a term called momentum to regular SGD. Momentum
accelerates the convergence towards the relevant direction and
increases the stability to a certain extent. The following is the
formula for SGD with momentum:
Here, L is the loss function.
β is another hyperparameter that takes the value from 0 to 1.
α is the learning rate.
is the gradient with respect to weight.
Advantages of SGD with Momentum:
It reduces the noise and high variance of parameters.
It converges faster than the gradient Descent method.
Disadvantages of SGD with Momentum:

--- Strana 412 ---
An extra hyperparameter is added that needs to be selected
manually and accurately.

--- Strana 413 ---
Adam (Adaptive Moment Estimation)
Adam optimizer, one of the most popular and famous gradient
descent optimization methods, works with momentums of ﬁrst
and second order. Adam computes adaptive learning rates for
each parameter to decrease the velocity so that we do not jump
over the minimum. It stores the decaying average of the past
gradients as well as the decaying average of the past squared
gradients as follows:
Advantages of Adam:
It converges rapidly.
It reduces the high variance of parameters.
Disadvantages of Adam:
It is computationally costly.

--- Strana 414 ---
Regularization
Neural networks are complex models, and it makes them prone to
overﬁtting i.e., they perform well on the training dataset but not
so good on the test dataset. In other words, we can say that
neural network models have a high variance, and they cannot
generalize well on the dataset they have not been trained on.
Getting more data and using regularization are the two ways to
address overﬁtting in neural networks. The ﬁrst way i.e., getting
more data for training is quite impossible and expensive too.
That’s why regularization is the most common method to reduce
overﬁtting.

--- Strana 415 ---
Regularization techniques
The following are the given two commonly used regularization
techniques applied in neural networks:
L1 and L2 regularization
L1 and L2, the most common types of regularization, update the
general cost function by penalizing the complex models that is,
adding another term known as the Complexity term or
Regularization
Cost function = Loss + Regularization term
The beneﬁt of adding the regularization term is that the values of
weight matrices decrease. Now the question arises as to how it
reduces overﬁtting with this? After adding the regularization term,
the model assumes that an NN with smaller weight matrices
leads to simpler models and hence reduces the overﬁtting to quite
an extent.
The regularization term in both L1 and L2 diﬀers as shown in the
following equation:
In L1:

--- Strana 416 ---
Here, λ(lambda) is the regularization parameter whose value is
optimized for better results.
As seen, the absolute value of weights is penalized, hence the
weights may be reduced to zero here.
In L2:
L2 regularization forces the weights to decay towards zero but not
exactly zero, hence it is very useful when we are not trying to
compress our model. Otherwise, prefer L1 over L2.
Dropout
As the name implies, this regularization technique sets the
probability of keeping a certain node in the NN to make it much
smaller and simpler. We only decide the threshold but the
probability of keeping each node is set at random. For example,
there is a 25% probability of removing a node from the network if
we set the threshold to 0.75.
To regularize an NN, it might seem a bad idea to randomly
remove nodes from it. Yet, dropout regularization is a widely used
method. But why does it work so well?

--- Strana 417 ---
In dropout regularization, each node has a random probability of
being removed, hence the NN cannot rely on any input node.
That’s the reason, the NN will be reluctant to provide high
weights to some features because they might vanish. Consequently,
the weights are spread across all the features and shrink the
model to regularize it.

--- Strana 418 ---
Installing useful Python package for ANN
For building ANNs, we will be using a powerful Python package
for neural networks called NeuroLab. This package consists of
basic neural networks algorithms along with ﬂexible network
conﬁgurations as well as learning algorithms for Python. The
following command is used to install the NeuroLab:
pip install NeuroLab
In case you are using an anaconda environment, the following
would be the command to install the NeuroLab:
conda install -c labfabulous neurolab

--- Strana 419 ---
Examples of building some neural networks
Here, we will be creating some neural networks by using the
Python NeuroLab package.

--- Strana 420 ---
Perceptron-based classiﬁer
Perceptron is the building block of neural networks. The following
Python code is used to build a simple Perceptron-based classiﬁer:
#Importing the required python packages:
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import neurolab as nl
#Providing the input values. We also need to provide the target
value because it is of supervised learning:
input = [[0.5, 0.3], [0, 1.5], [1.6, 0.8], [0.7, 2.1]]
target = [[0], [0], [0], [1]]
#Building the neural network with 2 inputs and 1 neuron:
net = nl.net.newp([[0, 1],[0, 1]], 1)
#Train the network using Delta rule:
error = net.train(input, target, epochs=200, show=15, lr=0.1)
#Visualizing the output and plotting the graph:
plt.ﬁgure()
plt.plot(error)
plt.xlabel('Number of epochs')
plt.ylabel('Training error')
plt.grid()
plt.show()

--- Strana 421 ---
The output of the preceding Python script is given as follow:
Figure 8.9: Training error versus number of epochs (Perceptron-based
classiﬁer)

--- Strana 422 ---
Single-layer neural networks
With the help of the following written Python script, we will create
a single-layer neural network. This single-layer NN consists of
independent neurons acting on input data to produce the output.
We are using the text ﬁle named NN_single.txt as our input
whose ﬁrst two columns are features and the last two columns
are labels.
#Importing the required python packages:
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import neurolab as nl
#Loading the dataset from saved text ﬁle in local directory:
data_input = np.loadtxt("{Your Directory Path}/NN_single.txt")
#Separating the four columns of input data into 2 data columns
and 2 labels
data = data_input[:, 0:2]
labels = data_input[:, 2:]
#Plotting the input data:
plt.ﬁgure()
plt.scatter(data[:,0], data[:,1])
plt.xlabel('Dimension_1')
plt.ylabel('Dimension_2')

--- Strana 423 ---
plt.title('Input-Data')
#Deﬁning the minimum as well as maximum values for each
dimension
dimension1_min, dimension1_max = data[:,0].min(), data[:,0].max()
dimension2_min, dimension2_max = data[:,1].min(), data[:,1].max()
#Deﬁning the number of neurons in the output layer
nn_output_layer = labels.shape[1]
#Deﬁning a single-layer NN
dim1 = [dimension1_min, dimension1_max]
dim2 = [dimension2_min, dimension2_max]
neural_net = nl.net.newp([dim1, dim2], nn_output_layer)
#Training the NN with number of epochs and learning rate
error = neural_net.train(data, labels, epochs=100, show=10, lr=0.01)
#Visualizing and plotting the training progress
plt.ﬁgure()
plt.plot(error)
plt.xlabel('Number of epochs')
plt.ylabel('Training error')
plt.title('Training error progress')
plt.grid()
plt.show()
#Using the test data-points to test the classiﬁer
print('\nThe Test Results are:')

--- Strana 424 ---
data_test = [[2.5, 4.5], [2.9, 3.8], [3.6, 4.7],[4.5, 7.8]]
for item in data_test:
print(item, '-->', neural_net.sim([item])[0])
The output of the preceding Python script is given as follow:
Epoch: 10; Error: 8.0;
Epoch: 20; Error: 4.0;
Epoch: 30; Error: 4.0;
Epoch: 40; Error: 4.0;
Epoch: 50; Error: 4.0;
Epoch: 60; Error: 4.0;
Epoch: 70; Error: 4.0;
Epoch: 80; Error: 4.0;
Epoch: 90; Error: 4.0;
Epoch: 100; Error: 4.0;
The maximum number of train epochs is reached
Figure 8.10: Input data (single-layer neural network)

--- Strana 425 ---
Figure 8.11: Training error versus number of epochs (single-layer neural
network)
The Test Results are:
[2.5, 4.5] --> [1. 1.]
[2.9, 3.8] --> [1. 1.]
[3.6, 4.7] --> [1. 1.]
[4.5, 7.8] --> [1. 1.]

--- Strana 426 ---
Multi-layer neural networks
With the help of the following written Python script, we will create
a multi-layer neural network. This multi-layer NN, which works like
a regressor, consists of more than one layer to extract the
underlying patterns in the training data. We will generate the data
points based on the equation:.
#Importing the required python packages:
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import neurolab as nl
#Generating some data point based on the equation: y= 2X^2+8.
minimum_val = -35
maximum_val = 35
num_points = 160
x = np.linspace(minimum_val, maximum_val, num_points)
y = 2 * np.square(x) + 8
y /= np.linalg.norm(y)
#Reshape the input dataset
data = x.reshape(num_points, 1)
labels = y.reshape(num_points, 1)
#Visualizing and plotting the input dataset
plt.ﬁgure()

--- Strana 427 ---
plt.scatter(data, labels)
plt.xlabel('Dimension_1')
plt.ylabel('Dimension_2')
plt.title('Data_points')
#Creating the NN having two hidden layers-10 neurons in the ﬁrst
hidden layer and 6 in the second hidden layer. The output layer
consists of 1 neuron.
NN = nl.net.newﬀ([[min_val, max_val]], [10, 6, 1])
#Using the gradient-descend training algorithm to train the NN
NN.trainf = nl.train.train_gd
#Training the NN on previously generated data
error = NN.train(data, labels, epochs=100, show=10, goal=0.01)
#Running the NN on the training data-points
output = NN.sim(data)
y_pred = output.reshape(num_points)
#Plotting and visualizing
plt.ﬁgure()
plt.plot(error)
plt.xlabel('Number of epochs')
plt.ylabel('Error')
plt.title('Training error progress')
#Plotting visualizing the actual versus predicted output
x_dense = np.linspace(min_val, max_val, num_points * 2)

--- Strana 428 ---
y_dense_pred=NN.sim(x_dense.reshape(x_dense.size,1)).reshape(x_de
nse.size)
plt.ﬁgure()
plt.plot(x_dense, y_dense_pred, '-', x, y, '.', x, y_pred, 'p')
plt.title('Actual versus predicted')
plt.show()
Output:
Epoch: 10; Error: 15.477455279786286;
Epoch: 20; Error: 13.528289284270963;
Epoch: 30; Error: 0.7008856414498756;
Epoch: 40; Error: 2.5499794643999127;
Epoch: 50; Error: 0.609645167038151;
Epoch: 60; Error: 1.4625867712043874;
Epoch: 70; Error: 0.12571106553919292;
Epoch: 80; Error: 0.22895324068235945;
Epoch: 90; Error: 0.5779960386023401;
Epoch: 100; Error: 0.4679757574525619;
The maximum number of train epochs is reached

--- Strana 429 ---
Figure 8.12: Input data (multi-layer neural network)
Figure 8.13: Training error versus number of epochs (multi-layer neural
network)
Figure 8.14: Actual versus predicted output (multi-layer neural
network)

--- Strana 430 ---
Vector quantization
Vector quantization, an N-dimensional version of rounding oﬀ, is
commonly used in Natural Language Processing Computer Vision
and Machine Learning We can use neural networks to create a
vector quantizer. The following Python script will be implemented
using the NeuroLab library:
#Importing required Python packages
import numpy as np
import neurolab as nl
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
#Creating the train samples
input_data = np.array([[-3, 0], [-2, 1], [-2, -1], [0, 2], [0, 1], [0, -1],
[0, -2], [2, 1], [2, -1], [3, 0]])
labels = np.array([[1, 0], [1, 0], [1, 0], [0, 1], [0, 1], [0, 1], [0, 1], [1,
0], [1, 0], [1, 0]])
# Creating NN with 2 layers (4 neurons in input layer and 2
neurons in output layer)
NN = nl.net.newlvq(nl.tool.minmax(input_data), 4, [.5, .5])
# Training the neural network
error = NN.train(input_data, labels, epochs=500, goal=-1)
# Plotting and visualizing the result

--- Strana 431 ---
xx, yy = np.meshgrid(np.arange(-3, 3.4, 0.2), np.arange(-3, 3.4, 0.2))
xx.shape = xx.size, 1
yy.shape = yy.size, 1
i = np.concatenate((xx, yy), axis=1)
o = net.sim(i)
grid1 = i[o[:, 0]>0]
grid2 = i[o[:, 1]>0]
class1 = input_data[target[:, 0]>0]
class2 = input_data[target[:, 1]>0]
plt.plot(class1[:,0], class1[:,1], 'cs', class2[:,0], class2[:,1], 'ko')
plt.plot(grid1[:,0], grid1[:,1], 'b.', grid2[:,0], grid2[:,1], 'gx')
plt.axis([-3.3, 3.3, -3, 3])
plt.xlabel('Input_data[:, 0]')
plt.ylabel('Input_data[:, 1]')
plt.legend(['class 1', 'class 2', 'detected class 1', 'detected class 2'])
plt.title('Vector quantization using neural networks')
plt.show()
Output:
Epoch: 100; Error: 0.0;
Epoch: 200; Error: 0.0;
Epoch: 300; Error: 0.0;
Epoch: 400; Error: 0.0;
Epoch: 500; Error: 0.0;
The maximum number of train epochs is reached

--- Strana 432 ---
Figure 8.15: Vector quantization using neural networks

--- Strana 433 ---
Conclusion
In this chapter, we learned about the basics of Artiﬁcial Neural
Networks and build some neural networks in the Python
programming language. We got to know that the ANNs, also
termed as Artiﬁcial Neural Systems and Parallel Distributed
Processing Systems, are those computational models that are
inspired by the way the human brain processes information using
the biological nervous system. We also discussed the working of
the biological neuron so that we can understand how our brain
works.
From the implementation perspective, we learned how we can
build some neural networks, namely, Perceptron-based classiﬁer,
single-layer neural network, multi-layer neural network, and vector
quantization in the Python programming language by using the
NeuroLab library.
In the next chapter, you will learn about the basic concepts of
reinforcement learning along with its implementation in the Python
programming language.

--- Strana 434 ---
Questions
How does the biological neuron work?
What is Artiﬁcial Neural Network (ANN) and how does it work?
What are the various types of ANN? Explain.
What is an activation function? Explain various types of activation
functions.
How to build a Perceptron-based classiﬁer in the Python
programming language?
How can you create a single-layer neural network using the Python
programming language?
How can you create a multi-layer neural network using the Python
programming language?
How to build a vector quantizer using the Python programming
language?

--- Strana 435 ---
CHAPTER 9
Implementing Reinforcement Learning with Python

--- Strana 436 ---
Introduction
Machine Learning is a large ﬁeld of study that focuses on
learning, that is, acquiring skills or knowledge from experience. As
a practitioner in the ﬁeld of ML, you may encounter diﬀerent
types of learning. Among them, one is reinforcement learning, the
coolest branch of Artiﬁcial Intelligence which has already proven
its prowess by beating the world champions in games of Chess,
Go, and even DotA 2.
We humans went through the learning enforcement when we were
children. In childhood, when we started crawling and tried to get
up, we fell over and over, but our parents or elders were there to
lift us and teach us. Reinforcement Learning is a teaching based
on experience, that is, the machine must deal with what went
wrong before and look for the correct outlook. In simple words,
reinforcement learning is the concept where machines can teach
themselves based on the results of their own actions.
In this chapter, we will learn about reinforcement learning and its
building blocks, namely, environment and agent. With the help of
some examples, we will understand how to construct an
environment and an agent using the Python programming
language.

--- Strana 437 ---
Structure
This chapter is structured as follows:
Understanding reinforcement learning
Markov Decision Process (MDP)
Building blocks of reinforcement learning
Environment
Agent
Constructing an environment using Python
Constructing an agent using Python

--- Strana 438 ---
Objective
After studying this chapter, the reader will be able to construct a
reinforcement learning environment and agent in the Python
programming language. The reader will also be able to install and
use OpenAI Gym, an open-source Python library, to develop,
compare, and construct reinforcement learning algorithms.

--- Strana 439 ---
Understanding reinforcement learning
Reinforcement learning methods are a bit diﬀerent from
supervised, unsupervised, and semi-supervised learning methods.
In these kinds of learning algorithms, a trained agent interacts
with a speciﬁc environment. The job of the agent is to interact
with the environment and once observed, it takes actions
regarding the current state of that environment.

--- Strana 440 ---
Workﬂow of reinforcement learning
The workﬂow of reinforcement learning is as follows (refer ﬁgure
Figure 9.1: Reinforcement learning workﬂow

--- Strana 441 ---
Let’s understand the working of reinforcement learning methods in
the following steps:
Prepare an agent with some set of strategies.
Observe the environment’s current state.
Regarding the current state of the environment, select the optimal
policy and perform suitable action accordingly.
Agent gets reward or penalty based on the action it took
according to the current state of the environment.
If needed update the set of strategies.
Repeat the process until the agent learns and adopts the optimal
policy.

--- Strana 442 ---
Markov Decision Process (MDP)
Let’s understand the basic elements of a reinforcement learning
problem:
The learner in reinforcement learning is called an agent. It is the
sole decision-maker.
It represents a physical world where an agent learns. It also
decides what actions are to be performed by an agent.
It consists of a list of actions that can be performed by an agent.
It represents the current situation of the agent.
It is the feedback given by the environment for every selected
action by the agent. It is a scalar value.
As the name implies, it is the strategy that the agent prepares to
map situations to actions.
Value It is the value of the state, that is, the current situation of
the agent. It shows up the rewards achieved by the agent from
starting of the state until the policy/strategy is executed.

--- Strana 443 ---
The following ﬁgure depicts the terminologies used in
reinforcement learning:
Figure 9.2: Terminologies used in reinforcement learning
Markov Decision Process may be deﬁned as the mathematical
framework to describe an environment in RL. The following
diagram depicts the interaction between agent and environment in
MDP:

--- Strana 444 ---
Figure 9.3: Basic diagram of reinforcement learning
As shown previously, an MDP model contains the following:
A set of possible world states denoted by
A set of possible actions denoted by
A set of models.
A reward function denoted by R(s,

--- Strana 445 ---
Working of Markov Decision Process (MDP)
First, at each discrete time step t = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4,…, the agent and
the environment interact with each other. Next, at each time step,
the agent gets the information about the environment state and
based on that state it will choose an action Based on the actions,
the agent will also get a numerical reward signal say In this way,
we will get the sequence like and so on.
The random variables and have a well-deﬁned discrete probability
distributions, which by the virtue of Markov property, are
dependent only on the preceding state. Assume and R as the sets
of states, actions, and rewards, then the following is given the
probability that the values of and are taking values of and a along
with the previous state:
p(S',r|s,a) = = s, a}
Here p is the function that controls the dynamics of the process.

--- Strana 446 ---
Diﬀerence between reinforcement learning and supervised learning
The following table shows the main diﬀerences between
reinforcement learning and supervised learning:
learning: learning:
learning: learning: learning: learning: learning: learning: learning:
learning: learning: learning: learning: learning: learning: learning:
learning: learning: learning: learning: learning: learning: learning:
learning: learning: learning: learning:
learning: learning: learning: learning: learning: learning: learning:
learning: learning: learning: learning: learning: learning: learning:
learning:
learning: learning: learning: learning:
learning: learning: learning: learning: learning: learning: learning:
learning: learning: learning: learning: learning: learning: learning:
learning:
learning: learning:
Table 9.1: Reinforcement Learning versus Supervised Learning

--- Strana 447 ---
Implementing reinforcement learning algorithms
The following are the three approaches to implement
reinforcement learning algorithms:
Value-based This approach is all about ﬁnding the optimal value
function, i.e., the maximum value at a state under any policy.
That’s the reason, in this approach, the agent expects the long-
term return at any state(s) under policy
Policy-based This approach is all about ﬁnding the optimal policy
for the maximum future rewards. Opposite to the value-based
approach, it does not use the value function. There are mainly
two types of policies in the policy-based approach:
As the name implies, in deterministic policy, the same action is
produced by policy X at any state.
As the name implies, in stochastic policy, the action is determined
by probability.
Model-based In the model-based approach, to make the agent
learn, a virtual model is created for the environment. As the
model representation is diﬀerent for each environment, there will
be no speciﬁc solution or algorithm for a model-based approach.

--- Strana 448 ---
Reinforcement learning algorithms
Reinforcement learning algorithms are mainly used in AI and
gaming applications. Some of the mainly used reinforcement
learning algorithms are given as follows:
It is a value-based oﬀ-policy reinforcement learning algorithm for
supplying information to intimate which action an agent should
perform. Q-learning algorithm learns the value function Q(S, This
value function means how good to act a at a speciﬁc state
The working of the Q-learning algorithm is explained in the
following ﬂowchart in ﬁgure

--- Strana 449 ---
Figure 9.4: Working of Q-learning
State Action Reward State Action It is an on-policy reinforcement
learning algorithm that selects the action for each state while
learning using a speciﬁc policy. In SARSA, unlike Q-learning, the
maximum reward for the next state is not required for updating
the Q-value in the table. In other words, new actions and rewards
are selected using the same policy that determined the original
action.
It is named SARSA because it uses Q(s, a,r, s’, a’) quintuple as
described here:
s: Original state.
a: Original action.
r: Reward that is observed while following the state(s).
New state.
New action.
Deep Q Neural Network DQN, as the name implies, is a Q-
learning algorithm using neural networks. The use of DQN is for
a big state environment where updating a Q-table is a challenging
and complex task. In such cases, instead of updating the Q-table,

--- Strana 450 ---
the neural network approximates the Q-value for every action and
state.

--- Strana 451 ---
Types of reinforcement learning
The following are the two types of reinforcement learning:
Positive It may be deﬁned as an event that occurs due to a
speciﬁc behavior and has a positive eﬀect on that behavior. In
other words, it increases the strength and the frequency of that
behavior.
The advantage of positive reinforcement is that it maximizes the
performance as well as sustains the change for a long period of
time. On the other hand, the disadvantage of positive
reinforcement is that it can lead to the overload of states, which
can diminish the results.
Negative It is opposite to positive reinforcement learning as it
strengthens the speciﬁc behavior by avoiding the negative
condition.
The advantage of negative reinforcement is that it increases the
behavior as well as provides a decent to a minimum standard of
performance. On the other hand, the disadvantage of negative
reinforcement is that it only provides enough to meet up a
minimum behavior.

--- Strana 452 ---
Beneﬁts of reinforcement learning
Reinforcement learning, which applies to complex problems that
cannot be tackled with other ML algorithms, is closer to Artiﬁcial
General Intelligence RL explores various possibilities autonomously
as well as seeks long-term goals. Various beneﬁts of RL include:
Focuses on the whole problem rather than dividing it into
Reinforcement learning, rather than dividing the problem into
subproblems, focuses on the whole problem to maximize the long-
term reward. RL understands the ﬁnal goal and is capable of
trading oﬀ short-term rewards for long-term rewards.
No need to perform the data collection In reinforcement learning,
instead of a separate collection of data for the algorithms, training
data is obtained via the direct interaction of the agent with the
environment. In other words, training data is the experience of a
learning agent. Therefore, in RL, there is no need to perform the
data collection step.
Reinforcement learning algorithms are innovative because they can
come up with completely new solutions that were never even
considered by human beings.
Resistant to As we know that supervised learning algorithms will
pick up the bias, if there is any in the way data is labeled. But

--- Strana 453 ---
on the other hand, reinforcement learning is resistant to bias and
gives us solutions that are free from bias or discrimination.
RL is adaptable, that is, it adapts to new environments
automatically hence does not require retraining and redeployment
to accomplish.

--- Strana 454 ---
Challenges with reinforcement learning
Despite being successful in solving complex problems in diverse
simulated environments, the adoption of reinforcement learning in
the real world is slow. The following are the various challenges
that have made the uptake of RL diﬃcult:
RL agent’s As discussed, training data is obtained via the direct
interaction of the agent with the environment, that is, training
data is the experience of the learning agent. Therefore, the rate of
data collection is limited by the dynamics of the environment. For
example, the environment having high latency will slow down the
learning curve. On the other hand, the environment having high-
dimensional state spaces will need extensive exploration for a
good solution.
Delay in The foundation principle of reinforcement learning is that
the agent can trade oﬀ short-term rewards for long-term gains.
This principle makes RL useful. But on the other hand, this
principle makes it diﬃcult for the agent to ﬁnd the optimal policy.
It is true in the case of those environments where the outcome is
unknown until many sequential actions are taken. For example, in
the game of chess, the outcome is unknown until both the
players have ﬁnished all their moves.

--- Strana 455 ---
Inadequacy of The RL agent, deployed in the environment, takes
actions based on its experience. Due to the lack of interpretability,
the external observer sometimes cannot understand the reasons
for those actions taken by the agent. In such a scenario, it is
diﬃcult to develop trust between the agent and the external
observer.

--- Strana 456 ---
Building blocks of reinforcement learning
There are two building blocks of reinforcement learning: agent and
environment. Let’s understand them in detail, as follows:

--- Strana 457 ---
Agent
The learner in reinforcement learning is called an agent. It uses
sensors and eﬀectors for learning. Through sensors, it can
perceive the environment, whereas through eﬀectors it can act
upon that environment. Following are some of the agents:
Human As the name implies, here the learners are human beings.
The eyes, ears, nose, skin, and tongue play the role of sensors to
perceive its environment. Other organs, such as hands, mouth,
and legs play the role of eﬀectors for acting upon the
environment.
Robotic As the name implies, here the learners are robots. Camera
and IR range ﬁnders play the role of sensors to perceive its
environment. Other instruments such as motors and actuators
play the role of eﬀectors for acting upon the environment.
Software As the name implies, here the learners are software
programs. For sensors and eﬀectors, it has encoded bit strings.
Agent terminology
The following are some of the agent terminologies:

--- Strana 458 ---
Performance The performance measure of an agent is the criteria
that determines how successful that agent is.
The behavior of an agent is the action performed by any agent
after any given sequence of percepts.
Percept is the perceptual inputs of agents.
Percept It represents the history of all perceptual inputs that have
been received by an agent.
Agent It may be deﬁned as the map from the percept sequence
to an action taken by the agent.

--- Strana 459 ---
Environment
It represents a physical world where an agent learns. It also
decides what actions to be performed by an agent. In simple
words, the environment is the whole world for the agent where it
lives as well as interacts. The agent interacts with its environment
by means of some action, but is conﬁned to the rules of that
environment and cannot inﬂuence those rules by its actions.
Environment action space
Action space, as the name implies, is a set of actions that are
allowed to be an agent in each environment. There are two types
of environment action space as follows:
Discrete action In discrete action space, as the name implies, all
the actions are discrete in nature. For example, the Atari Wall
Breaker game has a discrete action space of [Left, Right], whereas
the Pac-Man game has a discrete action space of [Left, Right, Up,
Down].
Continuous action In continuous action space, as the name
implies, all the actions are continuous in nature. For example, the
environment of the self-driving car has a continuous action space
of [steering wheel rotation, velocity].
Types of environments

--- Strana 460 ---
Diﬀerent types of environments can be categorized as follows:
Deterministic versus stochastic In deterministic environments, the
next state of that environment can always be determined by the
current state and the actions of an agent. For example, while
driving a car if the agent performs an action of steering right, the
car will move right only.
On the other hand, in a stochastic environment, the next state of
that environment cannot always be determined by the current state
and the actions of the agent. For example, in case the agent’s
world of driving a car is not perfect and the agent tries to
accelerate the car, then there is a small probability that the car
may just stop.
Episodic versus sequential In episodic environments, the actions of
agents do not depend upon any previous action. The actions are
limited to the speciﬁc episode only. For example, in the game of
archery, the action of the agent is independent of its previous
attempts.
On the other hand, in sequential environments, the actions of
agents depend upon the previous actions. For example, in the
game of chess, all the future actions will be dependent on its
previous actions, that is, the history of sequences.
Fully observable versus partially observable In fully observable
environments, as the name implies, the agent is always aware of

--- Strana 461 ---
the complete state of the environment at any point in time. For
example, the game of chess is fully observable because at any
given time the agent can always see the position of itself as well
as its opponent.
On the other hand, in partially observable environments, as the
name implies, the agent cannot be aware of the complete state of
the environment at any point in time. For example, the game of
poker is partially observable because at any given time the agent
cannot see the hands of its opponent.
Single-agent versus multi-agent In single-agent environments, as
the name implies, there is only one agent that interacts with that
environment. For example, only one person driving a car from one
point to another.
On the other hand, in multi-agent environments, as the name
implies, there is more than one agent that interacts with that
environment. For example, multiple cars are controlled by diﬀerent
agents.
Discrete versus continuous In discrete environments, there is a
limited number of distinct and clearly deﬁned states. For example,
the game of chess.
On the other hand, in continuous environments, the action space
of the environment is continuous in nature. For example, self-
driving cars.

--- Strana 462 ---
Constructing an environment using Python
For constructing reinforcement learning environments, we will be
using an open-source library called OpenAI Gym. We can use the
following command to install it:
pip install gym
Once installed we can access various environments, such as and
so on. You can learn more about OpenAI Gym at
Env interface
The Env interface is used to create an environment. It provides
make() method, which can be used to create an environment, as
shown in the following Python script:
import gym
#creating cartpole-v0 environment
env = gym.make('CartPole-v0')
#intializing the environment
env.reset()
for _ in range(1000):
env.render()#render the environment for visual representation
env.step(env.action_space.sample())

--- Strana 463 ---
env.close()#closing the environment for necessary cleanup
After running the preceding Python script, we will get a window
showing a cartpole moving to the right. The initial position of the
cartpole is depicted in the following ﬁgure:
Figure 9.5: CartPole environment-screenshot1
Next, we will see the cartpole moving. This is depicted in the
following ﬁgure:

--- Strana 464 ---
Figure 9.6: CartPole environment-screenshot2
In the end, we will see the cartpole going out of the window.
This is depicted in the following ﬁgure:
Figure 9.7: CartPole environment-screenshot3

--- Strana 465 ---
Constructing an agent using Python
For constructing reinforcement learning agents, we will use the
open-source library called OpenAI Gym as we did in the previous
section:
import gym
#Creating cartpole-v0 environment
env = gym.make('CartPole-v0')
for _ in range(20):
obs = env.reset()
for i in range(100):
env.render()
print(obs)
action = env.action_space.sample()
obs, reward, done, info = env.step(action)
if done:
print("Episode ﬁnished after {} timesteps".format(i+1))
break
When we run the preceding Python script, we will observe that
the cartpole balances itself. The following ﬁgure depicts it:

--- Strana 466 ---
Figure 9.8: Creating an agent-screenshot1
If we let the script run for few seconds, we will see that the
cartpole is still standing in balance. The following ﬁgure depicts it:
Figure 9.9: Creating an agent-screenshot2

--- Strana 467 ---
Conclusion
In this chapter, we learned about the basics of reinforcement
learning and construct its two building blocks, agent and
environment, in the Python programming language. We got to
know that in reinforcement learning methods, which are a bit
diﬀerent from supervised, unsupervised, and semi-supervised
learning methods, a trained agent interacts with a speciﬁc
environment. The job of the agent is to interact with the
environment and once observed, it takes actions regarding the
current state of that environment.
From the implementation perspective, we learned how to build the
CartPole-v0 environment and a learning agent for this environment
that balance the cartpole in the Python programming language by
using the OpenAI Gym package. In the next chapter, you will
learn about the basic concept of Convolutional Neural Network
along with its implementation in the Python programming
language.

--- Strana 468 ---
Questions
What is reinforcement learning? How does it work?
What are the various reinforcement learning algorithms? Explain
them in detail.
How reinforcement learning is diﬀerent from supervised learning?
What is the role of the environment in reinforcement learning?
What are the various types of environments?
What is the role of an agent in reinforcement learning? Explain in
detail.
How to build a reinforcement learning environment in the Python
programming language?
How can you create a reinforcement learning agent in the Python
programming language?

--- Strana 469 ---
CHAPTER 10
Implementing Deep Learning and Convolutional Neural Network

--- Strana 470 ---
Introduction
Over the past decade, without any doubt, we have noticed a
quantum jump in the quality of a wide range of everyday
technologies. Let’s have a look at the applications around us like
self-driving cars, speech-enabled personal assistants, Gmail’s smart
reply, image recognition, chatbots, humanoid robots. All of these
applications get the power from Deep Learning Apart from these
applications, DL also powers some of the other interesting
applications in the world like Amazon Go, Kitty Hawk’s Cora, and
Google Tulip. The ability of deep learning to handle a large
amount of data makes it possible.
In this chapter, we will learn about deep learning and also how it
is diﬀerent from machine learning. We will also learn about
Convolutional Neural Network which is one of the most popular
deep neural networks. We will understand how to construct an
image classiﬁer using CNN in the Python programming language.

--- Strana 471 ---
Structure
This chapter is structured as follows:
Understanding deep learning
Machine learning versus deep learning
Elucidation of convolutional neural networks
Architecture of convolutional neural networks
Localization and object detection with deep learning
Image classiﬁcation using CNN in Python.

--- Strana 472 ---
Objective
After studying this chapter, the reader will be able to construct an
image classiﬁer using convolutional neural networks in the Python
programming language. The reader will also be able to install and
use Keras – a deep learning API written in python for developing
and evaluating deep learning models.

--- Strana 473 ---
Understanding Deep Learning
Deep learning sets to be the most transformative technology
existing over the next decade. It is a subset of Machine Learning
which on the other hand is a subset of Artiﬁcial Intelligence
These three are a set of tracking dolls nested within each other
as shown in the following ﬁgure:
Figure 10.1: AI, ML, and DL
AI is a technique that enables machines to mimic human
intelligence. Whereas ML represents a set of algorithms that learn
from data and make all this possible. On the other hand, DL is a
type of ML inspired by the structure and function of the human
brain. Deep learning uses a multi-layered structure of algorithms
called Artiﬁcial Neural Network to draw similar conclusions as
human beings.

--- Strana 474 ---
We have already discussed ANN and its implementation in the
Python programming language in chapter Just to recall, the basic
structure of ANN is shown here:
Figure 10.2: Basic structure of ANN

--- Strana 475 ---
Machine learning versus deep learning
Although there are many diﬀerences between machine learning and
deep learning, the following table gives ﬁve most important
diﬀerences between these two subsets of AI:
AI: AI:
AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI:
AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI:
AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI:
AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI:
AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI: AI:
Table 10.1: Machine Learning versus Deep Learning

--- Strana 476 ---
Elucidation of Convolutional Neural Networks
Convolutional Neural Networks and ordinary neural networks are
similar to each other in the manner that they both are made up
of neurons having weights and biases. If we talk about the
working of ordinary neural networks, each neuron receives one or
more inputs, does the sum of the weights, and passes that
weighted sum through an activation function to produce the ﬁnal
output. Here the question arises that if CNNs and ordinary NNs
are so much similar then what makes them diﬀerent?
The diﬀerence between CNNs and ordinary NNs is in the types of
layers along with how they both treat the input data. As we know
that ordinary NNs ignore the structure of the input data and
convert all the input data into one-dimensional data before feeding
it into the network for ﬁnal processing. Whereas, while processing,
CNN architecture considers the two-dimensional structure of
images. It can also take any other two-dimensional input such as
speech signals. The CNN architecture is designed in such a way
that it extracts the properties speciﬁc to images.
In contrast to standard multilayer neural networks, CNNs have
one or more convolutional layers and pooling layers followed by
one or more fully connected layers. That’s the reason we can
think of CNN as a special case of fully connected networks. Isn’t
it interesting?

--- Strana 477 ---
The Architecture of Convolutional Neural Network
CNN is a list of layers that transforms the 3-dimensional (image
having a width, height, and depth) image volume into a 3-
dimensional output volume. The working seems similar as we
overlay an ﬁlter on the input image because each neuron in the
current layer of CNN is connected to a small patch of the output
from the previous layer. It uses M ﬁlters, that is, feature extractors
to get all the details like edges, corners, and so on. Before deep
diving into the architecture of CNN, let’s understand the layers
[INPUT-CONV-RELU-POOL-FC] used to construct CNNs, which is
given as follows:
INPUT The input layer holds the raw pixel values of an input
image. By raw pixel values, we mean the data of the image as it
is. For example, INPUT [6×6×3] means the array of matrix of
RGB; here 3 refers to RGB values. Whereas INPUT [4×4×1] means
the array of matrix of grayscale image; here 1 refers to grayscale
values.
Convolution Layer It is the ﬁrst layer and most of the
computation i.e., convolutions between neurons and various
patches in the input is done in this layer. We can consider it as a
mathematical operation that takes an image matrix and a ﬁlter
(kernel) as two inputs.
An image matrix (h × w × d)

--- Strana 478 ---
A ﬁlter or kernel of dimension × × d)
The output will be a volume of dimension +1) × (w- +1) × 1
For example, we can get the convolved feature map from 5 × 5
image matrix and 3 × 3 ﬁlter matrices by multiplying them as
follows:
follows:
follows:
follows:
follows:
follows:
follows:
follows:
follows:
Table 10.2: Image matrix: 5×5 and ﬁlter or kernel matrix: 3×3
The convolved feature map (3 × 3 output matrix) will be as
follows:

--- Strana 479 ---
follows:
follows:
follows:
Table 10.3: Feature map
By applying various kinds of ﬁlters (kernels) in images, we can
perform operations such as identity, Edge detection, Sharpen, Box
Blur, Gaussian Blur, and so on.
The following are the two conﬁguration hyperparameters, namely,
Stride and Padding, used in the Convolution layer:
The ﬁlter is moved across the input image from top to bottom
and left to right. While doing a horizontal movement, it observes
one-pixel column change. On the other hand, while doing a
vertical movement, it observes the one-pixel row change. The
amount of movement is called stride. The stride is almost always
symmetrical in width and height dimensions. The default stride in
2-D is (1, 1), which can also be changed to (2, 2). The change of
stride will change the size of the resulting feature map.
It may be deﬁned as the addition of the pixels to the edge of the
input image. There are two options for padding:
Zero As the name implies, zero padding is the technique to pad
the input image with zeros.

--- Strana 480 ---
Valid As the name implies, valid padding is the technique to keep
only the valid part of the input image. It will drop that part of
the image where the ﬁlter (kernel) does not ﬁt.
Non-Linearity It is called a rectiﬁed linear unit layer. Its function is
to introduce non-linearity in the convolutional network. It basically
applies an activation function to the output of the previous layer.
The output of ReLU function is f(x) = max(0, x). We can also use
two other non-linear functions, namely, tanh or sigmoid but the
performance of ReLU is much better than these two.
Pooling Layer The pooling layer, another building block of CNN,
reduces the number of parameters in a case when images are too
large. Its main task is down-sampling or subsampling by reducing
the dimensionality of each map but retains important information.
It is called spatial pooling because it operates independently on
every slice of the input and resizes it spatially. Spatial pooling can
be of the following three types:
Max It involves taking the largest element from the rectiﬁed
feature map.
Average It involves taking the average for each part of the feature
map.
Sum It involves taking the sum of all elements in the feature
map.

--- Strana 481 ---
Fully Connected Layer (FC We ﬂatten our matrix into a vector and
feed it into the fully connected layer (FC layer) or more
speciﬁcally called the output layer. The output class score will also
be computed in this layer.
The typical architecture of CNN is shown here:
Figure 10.3: Architecture of CNN

--- Strana 482 ---
Localization and object recognition with deep learning
Object recognition may be deﬁned as the general term to describe
a collection of computer-related vision tasks – image classiﬁcation,
object localization, and object detection – that involve identifying
objects mainly in digital images.
First, let’s understand these three computer vision tasks:
Image As the name implies, it involves predicting the class of an
object in a digital image. The input for image classiﬁcation would
be an image with a single object and the output would be a class
label.
Object It refers to locating the presence of one or more objects
and drawing a bounding box to show their location. The input for
object localization would be an image with one or more objects
and the output would be one or more bounding boxes depending
on the number of objects in an image.
Object You can say it is the combination of image classiﬁcation
and object localization because it refers to locating the presence
of one or more objects and drawing a bounding box to show
their location along with predicting the classes of the located
objects in an image. The input for object detection would be an
image with one or more objects and the output would be one or

--- Strana 483 ---
more bounding boxes along with a class label for each bounding
box.
Object It is another extension to the breakdown of computer
vision tasks. In this, the instances of recognized objects, instead
of indicating by a coarse bounding box, are indicated by
highlighting the speciﬁc pixels of the object.
The following ﬁgure gives an overview of the object recognition
computer vision tasks:
Figure 10.4: Object recognition computer vision tasks

--- Strana 484 ---
We got most of the recent innovations in image recognition from
ImageNet Large Scale Visual Recognition Challenge which is an
annual academic competition with a separate challenge for
previously deﬁned problems. Let’s see an example of comparing
single-object localization (a simpler version of the more broadly
deﬁned object localization) and object detection taken from the
ILSVRC review (refer ﬁgure
Figure 10.5: Comparison between single-object localization and object
detection

--- Strana 485 ---
Deep learning models
As we are now familiar with the problem of image classiﬁcation,
object localization, object detection, and object segmentation, next
we will understand some top-performing deep learning models.
R-CNN Model family
R-CNN family of methods was developed by Ross Girshick, et al.
It may stand for Regions with CNN Features or Region-Based
Convolutional Neural R-CNN model family includes three
techniques, namely, R-CNN, Fast R-CNN, and Faster-RCNN. Let’s
have a look at all of them:
The R-CNN, one of the ﬁrst large and successful applications of
CNN to the problem of object detection, object localization, and
object segmentation, was described in the by Ross Girshick, et al.
Their proposed R-CNN model is having the following given
modules:
Region This is the ﬁrst module, and it generates and extracts
category-independent region proposals. Example: candidate
bounding boxes.
Feature This is the second module and as the name implies, it
extracts features from each candidate region. Example: Using a
deep CNN.

--- Strana 486 ---
This is the third module, and as the name implies, it classiﬁes
features as one of the known classes. Example: Linear Support
Vector Machine Classiﬁer model.
The architecture of the model, taken from the previously
mentioned paper, is summarized as follows:
Figure 10.6: R-CNN model architecture
Fast The Fast R-CNN is proposed by Ross Girshick in a 2015
titled Fast R-CNN as an extension to address the following given
limitations of R-CNN:
R-CNN involves the preparation and operation of three separate
models, hence the training process in this technique is a multi-
stage pipeline.

--- Strana 487 ---
The training in R-CNN is expensive because training a deep
convolutional neural network on so many region proposals per
image is very slow.
Object detection in R-CNN is slow because making a prediction
using a deep convolutional neural network on so many region
proposals is very slow.
The architecture of the model, taken from the previously
mentioned paper, is summarized as follows:
Figure 10.7: Fast R-CNN model architecture
As we can see in the architecture of the Fast R-CNN image, the
model takes the photograph of a set of region proposals as input.
This set of region proposals then passed through a deep CNN
and here a pre-trained CNN (such as a VGG-16) is used for
extracting features. The end of this deep CNN is a custom layer
extracting feature speciﬁc for a given input candidate region. This
custom layer is called Region-of-Interest Pooling. After this, the

--- Strana 488 ---
fully connected layer interprets the output of the CNN and
bifurcates it into two outputs. One output will be used for class
prediction via a SoftMax layer and the other output will be used
with a linear output for the bounding box. The whole process is
repeated many times for each region of interest in a given
photograph.
Faster The Faster R-CNN is proposed by Shaoqing Ren et. al in a
2016 titled “Faster R-CNN: Towards Real-Time Object Detection
with Region Proposal Networks” with both improved speed of
training and detection. Their proposed Faster R-CNN model has
the following given modules:
Region Proposal This is the ﬁrst module, and it consists of CNN
for proposing regions and the type of object to consider in the
region as well.
Fast This is the second module and as the name implies, it uses
CNN to extract features from the proposed regions and can
output the bounding box along with class labels.
The ﬁrst module, that is the region proposal network, acts as an
attention mechanism for the second module, that is the fast R-
CNN network. The architecture of the model, taken from the
previously mentioned paper, is summarized as follows:

--- Strana 489 ---
Figure 10.8: Faster R-CNN model architecture
YOLO model family
YOLO family of methods, another popular family of object
recognition model, was developed by Joseph Redmon, et al. It
stands for You Only Look YOLO family of models achieve object
detection in real time and hence are much faster than R-CNN
models. YOLO model family includes techniques, namely, YOLO,
YOLOv2, and YOLOv3. Let’s have a look at all of them:
YOLO: The YOLO model, one of the fastest and successful
applications of CNN to the problem of object detection, was

--- Strana 490 ---
described in the by Joseph Redmon, et al. The YOLO approach
single NN trained end-to-end. The trained NN takes the
photograph as input and predicts both bounding boxes and their
class labels directly. This technique is relatively fast as it operates
at 45 frames per second and up to 155 frames per second. One
of the disadvantages of this technique, as compared with R-CNN,
is that it oﬀers lower predictive errors that is, having more
localization errors.
The working of YOLO model starts by splitting the input image
into a grid of cells. Each cell is responsible for predicting a
bounding box and its class labels. This prediction is done if the
center of a bounding box falls within the cell. For example, an
image may be divided into 7× 7 grids. If each cell in the grid
may predict 2 bounding boxes, the output will be 94 proposed
bounding box predictions. The summary of predictions made by
YOLO model, taken from the previously mentioned paper, is
summarized as follows:

--- Strana 491 ---
Figure 10.9: Summary of predictions made by YOLO
YOLOv2 and To further improve the YOLO model performance,
the YOLOv2 model was purposed by Joseph Redmon and Ali
Farhadi in their titled YOLO9000: Better, Faster, This model is
referred to as YOLOv2 but as it was trained on two object
recognition datasets in parallel and capable of predicting 9000
object classes, it is given the name YOLO9000. It uses batch
normalization, high-resolution input images, anchor boxes (as used
in faster R-CNN), and pre-deﬁned bounding boxes with useful
shapes and sizes.
The following is the example, taken from the previously mentioned
paper, of the representation chosen while predicting the bounding
box position and shape:

--- Strana 492 ---
Figure 10.10: Example of the representation chosen while predicting
bounding box position and shape
YOLOv3 model is having some reasonably minor improvements. It
was proposed by Joseph Redmon and Ali Farhadi in their titled
YOLOv3: An Incremental

--- Strana 493 ---
Image classiﬁcation using CNN in Python
Here, we are going to create an image classiﬁer using CNN in
the Python programming language. The image classiﬁer
distinguishes which category or class the input image belongs to.
For this, we will use Keras deep learning library, a high-level
neural networks API, written in Python and capable of running on
top of TensorFlow, CNTK, or Theno. You can learn more about
Keras at To install Keras on your computer system, use the
following commands:
pip install keras
To install it using the command would be as follows:
conda install –c conda-forge keras
For training and testing the dataset of images, we will use the
dataset of cats and dogs, which you can download from the link
# Importing the required libraries and packages.
from keras.models import Sequential
from keras.layers import Conv2D
from keras.layers import MaxPooling2D
from keras.layers import Flatten
from keras.layers import Dense
from keras.layers import Activation

--- Strana 494 ---
# Initializing the CNN by using the Sequential Class from keras.
Image_Classiﬁer = Sequential()
# Adding the ﬁrst convolutional layer.
Image_Classiﬁer.add(Conv2D(ﬁlters=32,kernel_size=(3, 3),
input_shape = (64, 64, 3), activation = 'relu'))
Let’s understand the working of arguments we passed previously
in the Convolutional layer:
It denotes the number of feature detectors.
It denotes the shape of feature detector. For example, (3, 3)
represents a matrix.
It will standardize the size of the input image.
It represents the activation function to introduce non-linearity. Here
we will use the ReLU activation function.
#Adding a pooling layer.
Image_classiﬁer.add(MaxPooling2D(pool_size = (2, 2)))
The argument pool_size is representing the shape of the pooling
window:
# Adding the ﬂatten layer that will convert the data into a 1-
Dimensional array.

--- Strana 495 ---
Image_classiﬁer.add(Flatten())
# Adding Full-Connection layers consisting of two layers, Hidden
layer and Output layer.
Img_classiﬁer.add(Dense(units = 128, activation = 'relu'))
Img_classiﬁer.add(Dense(units = 1, activation = 'sigmoid'))
The argument units are representing the number of nodes in the
layer:
#Compiling our classiﬁer.
Image_classiﬁer.compile(optimizer = 'adam', loss =
'binary_crossentropy', metrics = ['accuracy'])
The details of arguments are given as follows:
It is used to reduce the cost calculated by cross-entropy, which is
a measure of the diﬀerence between two probability distributions
for random variables.
It is used to calculate the error.
It is used to represent the eﬃciency of the model.
# Rescaling the images by using ImageDataGenerator.
from keras.preprocessing.image import ImageDataGenerator
train_datagen = ImageDataGenerator(rescale = 1./255,shear_range =
0.2, zoom_range = 0.2,horizontal_ﬂip = True)
test_datagen = ImageDataGenerator(rescale = 1./255)

--- Strana 496 ---
The details of arguments are described as follows:
It represents a rescaling factor. The default value of rescale
argument is none. If the value is none or there will be no
rescaling else the data will be multiplied by the value provided in
the argument.
It represents the sheer intensity.
It represents the range for random zooming of the input image.
# Now ﬁt the CNN to the images that lets the classiﬁer directly
identify the labels form the name of the directories where images
lie in.
training_set =
train_datagen.ﬂow_from_directory('D:/Dataset/train',target_size =
(64, 64),batch_size = 32,class_mode = 'binary')
test_set =
test_datagen.ﬂow_from_directory('D:/Dataset/test',target_size = (64,
64),batch_size =32,class_mode = 'binary')
The details of arguments are described as follows:
It gives the location of the training_set and test_set both.
It represents the dimension to which all input images will be
resized.

--- Strana 497 ---
It represents the size of the batches of data. Its default value is
This argument will determine the type of label arrays that are
returned.
# Training and evaluating our classiﬁer.
Image_classiﬁer.ﬁt_generator(training_set,steps_per_epoch =
4000,epochs = 15,validation_data = test_set,validation_steps = 10)
The details of arguments are given as follows:
As the name implies, it represents the sequence used to train the
neural network.
This argument represents the total number of steps.
It represents one complete cycle of predictions of the neural
network.
As the name implies, this argument represents the sequence used
to test the neural network.
As the name implies, this argument represents the total number
of steps to yield from
#Making new predictions by providing test image to our classiﬁer.
import numpy as np
from keras.preprocessing import image

--- Strana 498 ---
test_image = image.load_img('{File ﬁle path to image}', target_size
= (64, 64))
test_image = image.img_to_array(test_image)
test_image = np.expand_dims(test_image, axis = 0)
result = Image_classiﬁer.predict(test_image)
training_set.class_indices
if result[0][0] == 1:
prediction = 'dog'
else:
prediction = 'cat'
print(prediction)

--- Strana 499 ---
Conclusion
In this chapter, we learned about the basics of deep learning and
convolutional neural network, which is one of the most popular
deep neural networks. We also constructed an image classiﬁer
using CNN in the Python programming language.
We got to know that the diﬀerence between CNNs and ordinary
NNs is in the types of layers along with how they both treat the
input data. Ordinary NNs ignore the structure of the input data
and convert all the input data into one-dimensional data before
feeding it into the network for ﬁnal processing. Whereas, while
processing, CNN architecture considers the two-dimensional
structure of images. The CNN architecture is designed in such a
way that it extracts the properties speciﬁc to images. We also
learned about the architecture of CNN and its layers. From the
implementation perspective, we learned how to build an image
classiﬁer in the Python programming language by using CNN.

--- Strana 500 ---
Questions
What is deep learning? How is it diﬀerent from machine learning?
What are Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN)? Explain in detail.
What are various layers used in the architecture of CNN?
What is the role of the convolutional layer in CNN? Also, explain
the role of stride and padding.
Which activation function is used to add non-linearity in CNN?
How does it work?
How to build an image classiﬁer using CNN in the Python
programming language?
______________________________
1 https://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0575
2 https://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2524
3 https://arxiv.org/abs/1504.08083

--- Strana 501 ---
4 https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.01497
5 https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.02640
6 https://arxiv.org/abs/1612.08242
7 https://arxiv.org/abs/1804.02767

--- Strana 502 ---
Index
A
acoustic modeling 169
activation function
about 185
Leaky ReLU activation function 188
linear activation function 185
nonlinear activation function 186
Adaptive Moment Estimation (Adam)
about 193
advantages 193
disadvantages 194
adaptive weight neural networks 190
adjusted R-squared (R2) 90
agent
about 216
constructing, with Python 220
types 13
agent environment
about 16
complete, versus incomplete 17
deterministic, versus stochastic 17
discrete, versus continuous 17
fully observable, versus partially observable 17
single-agent, versus multi-agent 18
static, versus dynamic 17
agent terminology 216

--- Strana 503 ---
agglomerative hierarchical algorithms 107
agglomerative hierarchical clustering
dendrograms role 108
AI agent
about 10
structure 12
AI applications
building, with Python
AI applications, libraries
Caﬀe 19
Keras 19
Matplotlib 19
NLTK 19
Pandas 19
Scikit-learn 19
TensorFlow 19
AI environment 10
ANN framework
hidden layer 190
input layer 189
output layer 190
application industries, Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI)
automobiles 8
digital marketing 8
e-commerce 8
education 7
healthcare 7
Artiﬁcial General Intelligence (AGI)
about 214
beneﬁts 215
Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI)

--- Strana 504 ---
about 169
application industries 7
concept 4
learning 9
need for 3
study ﬁelds 6
types 4
Artiﬁcial Neural Network (ANN)
about 224
basic structure 189
biological neuron 182
Python package, installing 195
types 190
working 185
Artiﬁcial Neural Systems 182
Augmented Reality (AR) 7
B
back-end processing 169
Bag-of-Words (BoW) model 145
Balanced Iterative Reducing Clustering using Hierarchies (BIRCH)
95
Bernoulli Naïve Bayes 51
binary labels
used, for implementing Naïve Bayes classiﬁer 53
biological neuron
about 182
axon 183
dendrites 183
soma 183

--- Strana 505 ---
synapse 183
Biological Neuron Network (BNN) 188
BoW algorithm
implementing, with Python 148
need for
C
cab-service ride-sharing feature 9
CentOS
Python3, installing on 23
chunking 143
class conditional independence 51
classiﬁcation
classiﬁer
accuracy, evaluating 80
building, with Python 76
dataset, importing
data-training, organizing 78
ML library, importing 76
ML model, creating 79
ML model, training 79
testing set 78
test set result, predicting 79
clustering 94
Clustering in Quest (CLIQUE) 96
Clustering Large Applications based upon Randomized Search
(CLARANS) 96
Clustering using Representatives (CURE) 95
cluster methods

--- Strana 506 ---
about 95
density-base method 95
grid method 96
hierarchical-based method 95
mean-shift clustering algorithm 104
partitioning method 96
CNN layers
convolution layer (CONV) 227
fully connected layer (FC layer) 229
input layer 227
non-linearity (ReLU) 228
pooling layer (POOL) 228
Complexity term 194
components, Machine Learning (ML) algorithm
experience 30
performance 30
task 30
Computer Algebra System (CAS) 119
Computer Vision (CV) 203
Computer Vision (CV) tasks
image classiﬁcation 230
object detection 230
object localization 230
object segmentation 230
constituency grammar 143
Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN)
about 226
architecture 226
used, for image classiﬁcation in Python
convolution layer (CONV)

--- Strana 507 ---
padding 228
stride 228
count vectorization 151
D
Davies-Bouldin index 113
decision tree algorithm
about 44
implementing, in Python 47
deep learning
about 224
versus Machine Learning (ML) 225
deep learning models
about 231
R-CNN model family 231
YOLO model family 234
Deep Q Neural Network (DQN) 213
Density-Based Spatial Clustering of Applications with Noise
(DBSCAN) 95
density-base method 95
divisive hierarchical algorithms 107
document
categorizing 157
Don’t Repeat Yourself (DRY) 18
dropout regularization 195
Dunn index 114
Dynamic Bayesian Network (DBN) 169
dynamic neural networks 191
E

--- Strana 508 ---
eager learning
versus lazy learning 80
elbow method
for k evaluation, in k-means clustering algorithm 101
environment
constructing, with Python 219
environment rules
continuous action space 217
discrete action space 217
environment action space 216
environment types 218
Euclidean distance 64
excitatory synapse 183
Expected Time of Arrivals (ETAs) 9
F
Faster R-CNN 233
Faster R-CNN modules
Fast R-CNN 234
region proposal network 234
Fast R-CNN 233
feature extraction techniques
linear predictive cepstral coeﬃcient (LPCC) 166
mel frequency cepstral coeﬃcient (MFCC) 168
perceptual linear prediction (PLP) 168
Fedora
Python3, installing on 23
Feedforward Neural Networks (FNNs) 190

--- Strana 509 ---
ﬁxed weight neural networks 190
front-end processing, techniques
feature extraction 166
preprocessing 166
fully connected layer (FC layer) 229
G
Gaussian Naïve Bayes 51
gender ﬁnding 158
General Motors (GM) 8
goal-based agent 15
Google-Speech-API 178
gradient descent
about 191
advantages 191
disadvantages 192
Graph Neural Networks (GNN) 9
grid method 96
H
Hamming distance 64
Hidden Markov Model (HMM) 169
hierarchical-based method 95
hierarchical clustering algorithm
about 107
advantages 112
agglomerative hierarchical algorithms 107
dendrograms role 109

--- Strana 510 ---
disadvantages 112
divisive hierarchical algorithms 107
implementing, in Python 110
human agent 10
humanoid 9
I
identity activation function 185
image classiﬁcation
with CNN, in Python
ImageNet Large Scale Visual Recognition Challenge (ILSVRC) 231
inhibitory synapse 183
Inverse Document Frequency (IDF)
K
Kanren 119
Keras
reference link 236
Kernel SVM
about 60
implementing, in Python
k-means clustering
about 96
implementing, in Python 68
k-means clustering algorithm
about 97
advantages 104
disadvantages 104

--- Strana 511 ---
elbow method, for k evaluation 101
implementing, in Python 100
k-Nearest Neighbor (kNN) 226
KNN Classiﬁer
implementing, in Python 66
KNN regressor
implementing, in Python 68
Knowledge Representation (KR) 7
L
L1 regularization 194
L2 regularization 194
LancasterStemmer 138
language modeling 169
language modeling, approach
grammar-based approach 169
stochastic approach 169
lazy learners 80
lazy learning
versus eager learning 80
Leaky ReLU activation function 188
learning styles, Machine Learning (ML) algorithm
supervised learning 31
lemmatization
about 141
versus stemming 142
linear activation function 185
linear predictive cepstral coeﬃcient (LPCC) 166
linear regression 34

--- Strana 512 ---
linear regression, types
Multiple Linear Regression (MLR) 39
Simple Linear Regression (SLR) 35
Linux
Python3, installing on 22
Linux Mint
Python3, installing on 23
localization
with deep learning 229
logic programming 118
building blocks 119
Python packages 119
logic programming examples
implementing 119
prime members, generating 120
prime numbers, checking 120
puzzles, solving
logistic regression
M
Machine Learning (ML)
about 204
versus deep learning 225
Machine Learning (ML) algorithm
about 34
components 29
decision tree algorithm 44
k-Nearest Neighbor (kNN) 63
learning styles 30

--- Strana 513 ---
linear regression 34
logistic regression
Naïve Bayes algorithm 51
random forest algorithm 48
reinforcement learning 34
semi-supervised learning 33
Support Vector Machine (SVM) 55
Machine Learning (ML), types
reinforcement learning 10
supervised learning 10
unsupervised learning 10
macOS
Python3, installing on 25
Mac OS
Python’s NLTK Package, installing 131
Mac OS X
Python3, installing on 25
Manhattan distance 65
maps and directions 9
Markov Decision Process (MDP)
about 210
working 211
Maximum Marginal Hyperplane (MMH) 56
Mean Absolute Error (MAE) 88
Mean Absolute Error (MAE), characteristics
linear score 88
robust to outliers 88
mean-shift clustering algorithm
about 104
advantages 106
disadvantages 107

--- Strana 514 ---
implementing, in Python 106
working 104
Mean Squared Error (MSE) 88
Mini-Batch gradient descent
about 192
advantages 192
disadvantages 192
ML clustering algorithms
about 96
k-means clustering algorithm 97
model-based approach 212
model-based reﬂex agent 14
Momentum
using, in Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) 193
morphological analysis 130
multi-layer neural networks 200
multi-layer NNs 190
Multinomial Naïve Bayes 51
multiple labels
used, for implementing Naïve Bayes classiﬁer
Multiple Linear Regression (MLR)
about 84
implementing, in Python 40
N
Naïve Bayes algorithm 51
Naïve Bayes classiﬁer
building, with Naïve Bayes models in Python 51
implementing, with binary labels 53

--- Strana 515 ---
implementing, with multiple labels
Naïve Bayes models
Bernoulli Naïve Bayes 51
Gaussian Naïve Bayes 51
Multinomial Naïve Bayes 51
used, for building Naïve Bayes classiﬁer in Python 51
Natural Language Processing (NLP)
about 203
implementing 130
logical steps 129
phases 129
working 129
negative reinforcement 214
neural network, optimizers
Adaptive Moment Estimation (Adam) 193
for training 191
gradient descent 191
Mini-Batch gradient descent 192
SGD with Momentum 193
Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) 192
neural networks, build examples
about 195
multi-layer neural networks 200
perceptron-based classiﬁer 196
single-layer neural networks 199
vector quantization 204
N-Grams 152
NLTK corpus
downloading 133
nltk.tokenize package
RegexpTokenizer 136

--- Strana 516 ---
tokenizing paragraphs 137
tokenizing sentences 134
TreebankWordTokenizer 135
WordPunctTokenizer 136
nonlinear activation function
about 186
Rectiﬁed Linear Unit (RELU) 188
Sigmoid (logistic) 186
Tangent hyperbolic (Tanh) 187
non-linearity (ReLU) 228
non-parametric algorithm 104
noun-phrase chunking
implementing, in Python 144
O
object recognition
about 229
with deep learning 229
OpenAI Gym 218
Ordering Points to Identify Clustering Structure (OPTICS) 95
P
padding, options
valid padding 228
zero padding 228
Parallel Distributed Processing Systems 182
partial parsing 142
partitioning method 96

--- Strana 517 ---
P.E.A.S representation
about 13
self-diving vehicles 13
vacuum cleaner 13
perceptron-based classiﬁer 196
performance metrics for classiﬁcation
about 81
accuracy 82
confusion matrix 81
F1 score 84
precision 83
recall 83
speciﬁcity 83
performance metrics for clustering
about 113
Davies–Bouldin index 113
Dunn index 114
performance metrics for regression
about 88
adjusted R-squared (R2) 90
Mean Absolute Error (MAE) 88
Mean Squared Error (MSE) 88
R-squared (R2) 89
phases, Natural Language Processing (NLP)
morphological analysis 130
pragmatic analysis 130
semantic analysis 130
syntactic analysis/parsing 130
policy-based approach
about 212
stochastic 212

--- Strana 518 ---
policy-based approach, policies
deterministic 212
pooling layer (POOL) 228
PorterStemmer 138
positive reinforcement 214
pragmatic analysis 130
Principal Component Analysis (PCA) 33
PyAudio package 177
Python
decision tree algorithm, implementing 47
hierarchical clustering algorithm, implementing 110
image classiﬁcation, with CNN
Kernel SVM, implementing
k-means clustering algorithm, implementing 100
k-means clustering, implementing 68
KNN Classiﬁer, implementing 66
KNN regressor, implementing 68
mean-shift clustering algorithm, implementing 106
Multiple Linear Regression (MLR), implementing 40
Naïve Bayes models, for building Naïve Bayes classiﬁer 51
noun-phrase chunking, implementing 144
random forest algorithm, implementing 50
Simple Linear Regression (SLR), implementing
SVM algorithm, implementing 57
used, for building classiﬁer 76
used, for building regressor 85
used, for constructing agent 220
used, for constructing environment 219
used, for implementing BoW algorithm 148
Python3
about 18

--- Strana 519 ---
compiling, from source
installing 20
installing, from source
installing, on CentOS 23
installing, on Fedora 23
installing, on Linux 22
installing, on Linux Mint 23
installing, on macOS 25
installing, on Mac OS X 25
installing, on Ubuntu 22
installing, on Windows 21
setting up 20
used, for building AI applications
Python package
for logic programming 119
Google-Speech-API package 178
installing, for ANN 195
PyAudio package 177
SpeechRecognition package 178
Python’s NLTK Package
installing 130
installing, on Mac OS 131
installing, on operating system 131
installing, on Unix OS 131
installing, on Windows OS 131
installing, through Anaconda distribution installer 132
Q
Q-learning 213

--- Strana 520 ---
R
Radial Basis Function (RBF) 60
random forest algorithm
about 48
implementing, in Python 50
Rapid Application Development (RAD) 18
rationality 12
R-CNN 232
R-CNN model family
about 231
Faster R-CNN 233
Fast R-CNN 233
R-CNN 232
R-CNN modules
classiﬁer 232
feature extractor 232
region proposal 232
rectiﬁed linear unit layer 228
Rectiﬁed Linear Unit (RELU) 188
Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) 190
RegexpStemmer 139
Region-of-Interest (RoI) 233
regression 84
regressor
building, with Python 85
data, organizing into testing set 86
data, organizing into training set 86
dataset, importing 85

--- Strana 521 ---
ML library, importing 85
ML model, creating 86
model, training 86
regression line, plotting 86
variance, calculating 87
regularization 194
regularization techniques
about 194
dropout regularization 195
L1 regularization 194
L2 regularization 194
Regularization term 194
reinforcement learning algorithms
about 212
Deep Q Neural Network (DQN) 213
implementing 212
Q-learning 213
State Action Reward State Action (SARSA) 213
reinforcement learning algorithms, approach
model-based approach 212
policy-based approach 212
value-based approach 212
reinforcement learning (RL)
about 208
beneﬁts 214
challenges 215
reinforcement learning algorithms, implementing 212
versus supervised learning 211
workﬂow 209
reinforcement learning (RL), building blocks
about 215

--- Strana 522 ---
agent 216
agent terminology 216
environment 216
reinforcement learning (RL), types
about 214
negative reinforcement 214
positive reinforcement 214
robotic agent 10
R-Squared (R2) 89
S
semantic analysis 130
semi-supervised learning
about 33
approach-I 33
approach-II 33
SGD with Momentum
about 193
advantages 193
disadvantages 193
Sigmoid (logistic) 186
Silhouette analysis 113
Simple Linear Regression (SLR)
about 84
implementing, in Python
simple reﬂex agent 14
single-layer neural networks 199
single-layer NNs 190
SnowballStemmer 139

--- Strana 523 ---
software agent 11
spatial pooling, types
average pooling 229
max pooling 229
sum pooling 229
speech recognition
audio signal, characterization 172
audio signal, visualization 171
basics 164
building 169
feature extraction 176
monotone audio signal generation 174
spoken words, recognizing 177
SpeechRecognition package 178
speech recognition system
back-end processing 169
front-end processing 165
problems 170
working 165
Speech-to-Noise Ratio (SNR) 166
State Action Reward State Action (SARSA) 213
static neural networks 191
Statistical Information Grid (STING) 96
stemming
about 137
versus lemmatization 142
stemming algorithms 138
Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD)
about 192
advantages 192
disadvantages 192

--- Strana 524 ---
stop words
about 149
removing 149
removing, with NLTK library 149
study ﬁelds, Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI)
Deep Learning (DL) 6
Knowledge Representation (KR) 7
Logic 6
Machine Learning (ML) 6
supervised learning
about 31
versus reinforcement learning (RL) 211
supervised learning, features
anomaly detection 33
association 33
clustering 32
dimensionality reduction 33
input variable 32
supervised learning methods
about 31
classiﬁcation 31
regression 31
Support Vector Machine (SVM)
about 55
Hyperplane 56
Margin 56
Support Vectors 56
SVM algorithm
implementing, in Python 57
working 55

--- Strana 525 ---
SymPy 119
synapse
about 183
excitatory synapse 183
inhibitory synapse 183
syntactic analysis 130
syntactic parsing 130
T
Tangent hyperbolic (Tanh) 187
Term Frequency–Inverse Document Frequency (TF–IDF) 152
Term Frequency (TF) 152
tokenization 134
transformers 155
types, Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI)
bodily kinesthetic intelligence 5
inter-personal intelligence 5
intra-personal intelligence 5
linguistic-verbal intelligence 4
logical-mathematical intelligence 4
musical intelligence 4
naturalistic intelligence 6
visual-spatial intelligence 5
U
Ubuntu
Python3, installing on 22
Unix OS
Python’s NLTK Package, installing 131

--- Strana 526 ---
unsupervised learning 32
utility-based agent 16
V
valid padding 228
value-based approach 212
vectorization 150
vectorization techniques
about 150
count vectorization 151
N-Grams 152
Term Frequency–Inverse Document Frequency (TF–IDF) 152
vector quantization 204
video games 9
Virtual Personal Assistants (VPAs) 8
Virtual Reality (VR) 7
W
Windows
Python3, installing on 21
Windows OS
Python’s NLTK Package, installing 131
Y
YOLO model family
about 234

--- Strana 527 ---
YOLO model 235
YOLOv2 model 235
YOLOv3 model 236
Z
zero padding 228
