
--- Strana 1 ---

--- Strana 2 ---
Modern Computer Vision with PyTorch
 
 
 
 
 
 
Explore deep learning concepts and implement over 50 real-world image
applications
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
V Kishore Ayyadevara
Yeshwanth Reddy

--- Strana 3 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BIRMINGHAM - MUMBAI

--- Strana 4 ---
Modern Computer Vision with
PyTorch
Copyright © 2020 Packt Publishing
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any
means, without the prior written permission of the publisher, except in the case of brief quotations embedded in critical articles or
reviews.
Every effort has been made in the preparation of this book to ensure the accuracy of the information presented. However, the
information contained in this book is sold without warranty, either express or implied. Neither the authors, nor Packt Publishing or
its dealers and distributors, will be held liable for any damages caused or alleged to have been caused directly or indirectly by this
book.
Packt Publishing has endeavored to provide trademark information about all of the companies and products mentioned in this
book by the appropriate use of capital. However, Packt Publishing cannot guarantee the accuracy of this information.
 
Commissioning Editor: Sunith Shetty
Acquisition Editor: Siddharth Mandal
Content Development Editor: Joseph Sunil
Senior Editor: Roshan Kumar
Technical Editor: Manikandan Kurup
Copy Editor: Safis Editing
Project Coordinator: Aishwarya Mohan
Proofreader: Safis Editing
Indexer: Rekha Nair
Production Designer: Prashant Ghare
First published: November 2020
Production reference: 1261120
Published by Packt Publishing Ltd.
Livery Place
35 Livery Street
Birmingham
B3 2PB, UK.
ISBN 978-1-83921-347-2
www.packt.com

--- Strana 5 ---
 
I am grateful to my wife, Sindhura, for her love, constant support, and for being a source of
inspiration all throughout. Sincere thanks to the Packt team, Joseph Sunil, Kirti Pisat, Gebin George,
and Tushar Gupta, for their support and belief in me. 
Special thanks to the reviewers for their helpful feedback. This book would not have been in this
shape without the great support and feedback I received from Kiran Kumar Meetakoti, Raghav Bali,
Subhadip Maji, and Shresth Verma.

--- Strana 6 ---
 
Packt.com
Subscribe to our online digital library for full access to over 7,000 books
and videos, as well as industry leading tools to help you plan your personal
development and advance your career. For more information, please visit
our website.
Why subscribe?
Spend less time learning and more time coding with practical eBooks
and Videos from over 4,000 industry professionals
Improve your learning with Skill Plans built especially for you
Get a free eBook or video every month
Fully searchable for easy access to vital information
Copy and paste, print, and bookmark content
Did you know that Packt offers eBook versions of every book published,
with PDF and ePub files available? You can upgrade to the eBook version
at www.packt.com and as a print book customer, you are entitled to a discount
on the eBook copy. Get in touch with us at customercare@packtpub.com for more
details.
At www.packt.com, you can also read a collection of free technical articles, sign
up for a range of free newsletters, and receive exclusive discounts and
offers on Packt books and eBooks. 

--- Strana 7 ---
Contributors
About the authors
V Kishore Ayyadevara leads a team focused on using AI to solve
problems in the healthcare space. He has more than 10 years' experience in
the field of data science with prominent technology companies. In his
current role, he is responsible for developing a variety of cutting-edge
analytical solutions that have an impact at scale while building strong
technical teams.
Kishore has filed 8 patents at the intersection of machine learning,
healthcare, and operations. Prior to this book, he authored four books in the
fields of machine learning and deep learning. Kishore got his MBA from
IIM Calcutta and his engineering degree from Osmania University.
I would like to dedicate this book to my dear parents, Hema and Subrahmanyeswara Rao, my lovely
wife, Sindhura, and my dearest daughter, Hemanvi. This would not have been possible without their
patience, support, and encouragement.
 
Yeshwanth Reddy is a senior data scientist with a strong focus on the
research and implementation of cutting-edge technologies to solve
problems in the health and computer vision domains. He has filed four
patents in the field of OCR. He also has 2 years of teaching experience,
where he delivered sessions to thousands of students in the fields of
statistics, machine learning, AI, and natural language processing. He has
completed his MTech and BTech at IIT Madras.
I would like to thank and dedicate this book to my dear parents Lalitha and Ravi, and my brother
Sumanth - for whom I am ever grateful.  My gratitude also goes to my extended family and all my
friends who directly or indirectly helped me through the past year.
 

--- Strana 8 ---
About the reviewer
Jamshaid Sohail is passionate about data science, machine learning,
computer vision, and natural language processing and has more than 2 years
of experience in the industry. He has worked in a Silicon Valley-based start-
up named FunnelBeam, as a data scientist. He has worked with the founders
of FunnelBeam from Stanford University. Currently, he is working as a data
scientist at Systems Limited. He has completed over 66 online courses from
different platforms. He authored the book Data Wrangling with Python 3.X
for Packt Publishing and has reviewed multiple books and courses. He is
also developing a comprehensive course on data science at Educative and is
in the process of writing books for multiple publishers.
 
 
 
 
 
Packt is searching for authors like
you
If you're interested in becoming an author for Packt, please visit authors.packt
pub.com and apply today. We have worked with thousands of developers and
tech professionals, just like you, to help them share their insight with the
global tech community. You can make a general application, apply for a
specific hot topic that we are recruiting an author for, or submit your own
idea.

--- Strana 9 ---
Table of Contents
Title Page
Copyright and Credits
Modern Computer Vision with PyTorch
Dedication
About Packt
Why subscribe?
Contributors
About the authors
About the reviewer
Packt is searching for authors like you
Preface
Who this book is for
What this book covers
To get the most out of this book
Download the example code files
Download the color images
Conventions used
Get in touch
Reviews
1. Section 1 - Fundamentals of Deep Learning for Computer Vision
1. Artificial Neural Network Fundamentals
Comparing AI and traditional machine learning
Learning about the artificial neural network building blocks
Implementing feedforward propagation
Calculating the hidden layer unit values
Applying the activation function
Calculating the output layer values
Calculating loss values
Calculating loss during continuous variable prediction
Calculating loss during categorical variable prediction
Feedforward propagation in code
Activation functions in code
Loss functions in code

--- Strana 10 ---
Implementing backpropagation
Gradient descent in code
Implementing backpropagation using the chain rule
Putting feedforward propagation and backpropagation together
Understanding the impact of the learning rate 
Summarizing the training process of a neural network
Summary
Questions
2. PyTorch Fundamentals
Installing PyTorch
PyTorch tensors
Initializing a tensor
Operations on tensors
Auto gradients of tensor objects
Advantages of PyTorch's tensors over NumPy's ndarrays
Building a neural network using PyTorch
Dataset, DataLoader, and batch size
Predicting on new data points
Implementing a custom loss function
Fetching the values of intermediate layers
Using a sequential method to build a neural network
Saving and loading a PyTorch model
state dict
Saving
Loading
Summary
Questions
3. Building a Deep Neural Network with PyTorch
Representing an image
Converting images into structured arrays and scalars
Why leverage neural networks for image analysis?
Preparing our data for image classification
Training a neural network
Scaling a dataset to improve model accuracy
Understanding the impact of varying the batch size
Batch size of 32
Batch size of 10,000

--- Strana 11 ---
Understanding the impact of varying the loss optimizer
Understanding the impact of varying the learning rate
Impact of the learning rate on a scaled dataset
High learning rate
Medium learning rate
Low learning rate
Parameter distribution across layers for different learning rates
Impact of varying the learning rate on a non-scaled dataset
Understanding the impact of learning rate annealing
Building a deeper neural network
Understanding the impact of batch normalization
Very small input values without batch normalization
Very small input values with batch normalization
The concept of overfitting
Impact of adding dropout
Impact of regularization
L1 regularization
L2 regularization
Summary
Questions
2. Section 2 - Object Classification and Detection
4. Introducing Convolutional Neural Networks
The problem with traditional deep neural networks
Building blocks of a CNN
Convolution
Filter
Strides and padding 
Strides
Padding
Pooling
Putting them all together
How convolution and pooling help in image translation
Implementing a CNN 
Building a CNN-based architecture using PyTorch
Forward propagating the output in Python
Classifying images using deep CNNs
Implementing data augmentation

--- Strana 12 ---
Image augmentations
Affine transformations
Changing the brightness
Adding noise
Performing a sequence of augmentations
Performing data augmentation on a batch of images and the need for collat
e_fn
Data augmentation for image translation
Visualizing the outcome of feature learning
Building a CNN for classifying real-world images
Impact on the number of images used for training
Summary
Questions
5. Transfer Learning for Image Classification
Introducing transfer learning
Understanding VGG16 architecture
Understanding ResNet architecture
Implementing facial key point detection
2D and 3D facial key point detection
Multi-task learning – Implementing age estimation and gender classificati
on
Introducing the torch_snippets library
Summary
Questions
6. Practical Aspects of Image Classification
Generating CAMs
Understanding the impact of data augmentation and batch normalization
Coding up road sign detection
Practical aspects to take care of during model implementation
Dealing with imbalanced data
The size of the object within an image
Dealing with the difference between training and validation data
The number of nodes in the flatten layer
Image size
Leveraging OpenCV utilities
Summary
Questions

--- Strana 13 ---
7. Basics of Object Detection
Introducing object detection
Creating a bounding box ground truth for training
Installing the image annotation tool
Understanding region proposals
Leveraging SelectiveSearch to generate region proposals
Implementing SelectiveSearch to generate region proposals
Understanding IoU
Non-max suppression
Mean average precision
Training R-CNN-based custom object detectors
Working details of R-CNN
Implementing R-CNN for object detection on a custom dataset
Downloading the dataset
Preparing the dataset
Fetching region proposals and the ground truth of offset
Creating the training data
R-CNN network architecture
Predict on a new image
Training Fast R-CNN-based custom object detectors
Working details of Fast R-CNN
Implementing Fast R-CNN for object detection on a custom dataset
Summary
Questions
8. Advanced Object Detection
Components of modern object detection algorithms
Anchor boxes
Region Proposal Network
Classification and regression
Training Faster R-CNN on a custom dataset
Working details of YOLO
Training YOLO on a custom dataset
Installing Darknet
Setting up the dataset format
Configuring the architecture
Training and testing the model
Working details of SSD

--- Strana 14 ---
Components in SSD code
SSD300
MultiBoxLoss
Training SSD on a custom dataset
Summary
Test your understanding
9. Image Segmentation
Exploring the U-Net architecture
Performing upscaling
Implementing semantic segmentation using U-Net
Exploring the Mask R-CNN architecture
RoI Align
Mask head
Implementing instance segmentation using Mask R-CNN
Predicting multiple instances of multiple classes
Summary
Questions
10. Applications of Object Detection and Segmentation
Multi-object instance segmentation
Fetching and preparing data
Training the model for instance segmentation
Making inferences on a new image
Human pose detection
Crowd counting
Coding up crowd counting
Image colorization
3D object detection with point clouds
Theory
Input encoding
Output encoding
Training the YOLO model for 3D object detection
Data format
Data inspection
Training
Testing
Summary
3. Section 3 - Image Manipulation

--- Strana 15 ---
11. Autoencoders and Image Manipulation
Understanding autoencoders
Implementing vanilla autoencoders
Understanding convolutional autoencoders
Grouping similar images using t-SNE
Understanding variational autoencoders
Working of VAE
KL divergence
Building a VAE
Performing an adversarial attack on images
Performing neural style transfer
Generating deep fakes
Summary
Questions
12. Image Generation Using GANs
Introducing GANs
Using GANs to generate handwritten digits
Using DCGANs to generate face images
Implementing conditional GANs
Summary
Questions
13. Advanced GANs to Manipulate Images
Leveraging the Pix2Pix GAN
Leveraging CycleGAN
Leveraging StyleGAN on custom images
Super-resolution GAN
Architecture
Coding SRGAN
Summary
Questions
4. Section 4 - Combining Computer Vision with Other Techniques
14. Training with Minimal Data Points
Implementing zero-shot learning
Coding zero-shot learning
Implementing few-shot learning
Building a Siamese network
Coding Siamese networks

--- Strana 16 ---
Working details of prototypical networks
Working details of relation networks
Summary
Questions
15. Combining Computer Vision and NLP Techniques
Introducing RNNs
The idea behind the need for RNN architecture
Exploring the structure of an RNN
Why store memory?
Introducing LSTM architecture
The working details of LSTM
Implementing LSTM in PyTorch
Implementing image captioning
Image captioning in code
Transcribing handwritten images
The working details of CTC loss
Calculating the CTC loss value
Handwriting transcription in code
Object detection using DETR
The working details of transformers
Basics of transformers
The working details of DETR
Detection with transformers in code
Summary
Questions
16. Combining Computer Vision and Reinforcement Learning
Learning the basics of reinforcement learning
Calculating the state value
Calculating the state-action value
Implementing Q-learning
Q-value
Understanding the Gym environment
Building a Q-table
Leveraging exploration-exploitation
Implementing deep Q-learning
Implementing deep Q-learning with the fixed targets model
Coding up an agent to play Pong

--- Strana 17 ---
Implementing an agent to perform autonomous driving
Installing the CARLA environment
Install the CARLA binaries
Installing the CARLA Gym environment
Training a self-driving agent
model.py
actor.py
Training DQN with fixed targets
Summary
Questions
17. Moving a Model to Production
Understanding the basics of an API
Creating an API and making predictions on a local server
Installing the API module and dependencies
Serving an image classifier
fmnist.py
server.py
Running the server
Moving the API to the cloud
Comparing Docker containers and Docker images
Creating a Docker container
Creating the requirements.txt file
Creating a Dockerfile
Building a Docker image and creating a Docker container
Shipping and running the Docker container in the cloud
Configuring AWS
Creating a Docker repository on AWS ECR and pushing the image
Creating an EC2 instance
Pulling the image and building the Docker container
Summary
18. Using OpenCV Utilities for Image Analysis
Drawing bounding boxes around words in an image
Detecting lanes in an image of a road
Detecting objects based on color
Building a panoramic view of images
Detecting the number plate of a car
Summary

--- Strana 18 ---
Appendix
Chapter 1 - Artificial Neural Network Fundamentals
Chapter 2 - PyTorch Fundamentals
Chapter 3 - Building a Deep Neural Network with PyTorch
Chapter 4 - Introducing Convolutional Neural Networks
Chapter 5 - Transfer Learning for Image Classification
Chapter 6 - Practical Aspects of Image Classification
Chapter 7 - Basics of Object Detection
Chapter 8 - Advanced Object Detection
Chapter 9 - Image Segmentation
Chapter 11 - Autoencoders and Image Manipulation
Chapter 12 - Image Generation Using GANs
Chapter 13 - Advanced GANs to Manipulate Images
Chapter 14 - Training with Minimal Data Points
Chapter 15 - Combining Computer Vision and NLP Techniques
Chapter 16 - Combining Computer Vision and Reinforcement Learning
Other Books You May Enjoy
Leave a review - let other readers know what you think

--- Strana 19 ---
Preface
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is here, and has become a powerful force and is
fuelling some of the modern applications that are used on a daily basis.
Much like the discovery/invention of fire, wheel, oil, electricity, and
electronics - Artificial Intelligence is reshaping our world in ways that we
could only fantasize about. AI has been historically a niche computer
science subject, offered by a handful of labs. But because of the explosion
of excellent theory, increase in computing power, and availability of data,
the field started growing exponentially since the 2000s and has shown no
sign of slowing down anytime soon.
AI has proven again and again that given the right algorithm and enough
amount of data, it can learn the task by itself with limited human
intervention and produce results that rival human judgement and sometimes
even surpass them. Whether you are a rookie learning the ropes or a veteran
driving large organizations, there is every reason to understand how AI
works. Neural networks are some of the most flexible classes of Artificial
Intelligence algorithms that have been adapted to a vast range of
applications including structured data, text, and vision domains.
This book starts with the basics of neural networks and covers over 50
applications of computer vision. First, you will build a neural network
(NN) from scratch using both NumPy, PyTorch, and then learn the best
practices of tweaking a NN's hyper-parameters. As we progress, you will
learn about CNNs, transfer-learning with a focus on classifying images.
You will also learn about the practical aspects to take care of while building
a NN model.
Next, you will learn about multi-object detection, segmentation, and
implement them using R-CNN family, SSD, YOLO, U-Net, Mask-RCNN
architectures. You will then learn to use the Detectron2 framework to
simplify the process of building a NN for object detection and human-pose-
estimation. Finally, you will implement 3-D object detection.

--- Strana 20 ---
Subsequently, you will learn about auto-encoders and GANs with a strong
focus on image manipulation and generation. Here, you will implement
VAE, DCGAN, CGAN, Pix2Pix, CycleGan, StyleGAN2, SRGAN, Style-
Transfer to manipulate images on a variety of tasks.
You will then learn to combine NLP and CV techniques while performing
OCR, Image Captioning, object detection with transformers. Next, you will
learn to combine RL with CV techniques to implement a self-driving car
agent. Finally, you'll wrap up with moving a NN model to production and
learn conventional CV techniques using the OpenCV library.

--- Strana 21 ---
Who this book is for
This book is for newcomers to PyTorch and intermediate-level machine
learning practitioners who are looking to become well versed in CV
techniques using deep learning and PyTorch. Those who are just getting
started with NNs will also find this book useful. Basic knowledge of the
Python programming language and machine learning is all you need to get
started with this book.

--- Strana 22 ---
What this book covers
Chapter 1, Artificial Neural Network Fundamentals, gives you the complete
details of how a neural network works. You will start by learning the key
terminology associated with neural networks. Next, you will understand the
working details of the building blocks and build a neural network from
scratch on a toy dataset. By the end of this chapter, you will be confident
about how a neural network works.
Chapter 2, PyTorch Fundamentals, introduces you to working with PyTorch.
You will learn about the ways of creating and manipulating tensor objects
before learning about the different ways of building a neural network model
using PyTorch. You will still work with a toy dataset so that you understand
the specifics of working with PyTorch.
Chapter 3, Building a Deep Neural Network with PyTorch, combines all that
has been covered in the previous chapters to understand the impact of
various neural network hyperparameters on model accuracy. By the end of
this chapter, you will be confident about working with neural networks on a
realistic dataset.
Chapter 4, Introducing Convolutional Neural Networks, details the challenges
of using a vanilla neural network and you will be exposed to the reason why
convolutional neural networks overcome the various limitations of
traditional neural networks. You will dive deep into the working details of
CNN and understand the various components in it. Next, you will learn the
best practices of working with images. In this chapter, you will start
working with real-world images and learn the intricacies of how CNNs help
in image classification.
Chapter 5, Transfer Learning for Image Classification, exposes you to
solving image classification problems in real-world. You will learn about
multiple transfer learning architectures and also understand how it helps in
significantly improving the image classification accuracy. Next, you will

--- Strana 23 ---
leverage transfer learning to implement the use cases of facial keypoint
detection and age, gender estimation.
Chapter 6, Practical Aspects of Image Classification, provides insight into
the practical aspects to take care of while building and deploying image
classification models. You will practically see the advantages of leveraging
data augmentation and batch normalization on real-world data. Further, you
will learn about how class activation maps help in explaining the reason
why CNN model predicted a certain outcome. By the end of this chapter,
you can confidently tackle a majority of image classification problems and
leverage the models discussed in the previous 3 chapters on your custom
dataset.
Chapter 7, Basics of Object Detection, lays the foundation for object
detection where you will learn about the various techniques that are used to
build an object detection model. Next, you will learn about region proposal-
based object-detection techniques through a use case where you will
implement a model to locate trucks and buses in an image.
Chapter 8, Advanced Object Detection, exposes you to the limitations of the
region-proposal based architectures. You will then learn about the working
details of more advanced architectures that address the issues of region
proposal-based architectures. You will implement all the architectures on
the same dataset (trucks vs buses detection) so that you can contrast how
each architecture works.
Chapter 9, Image Segmentation, builds upon the learnings in previous
chapters and will help you build models that pin-point the location of the
objects of various classes as well as instances of objects in an image. You
will implement the use cases on images of a road and also on images of
common household. By the end of this chapter, you will confidently tackle
any image classification, object detection/ segmentation problem and solve
it by building a model using PyTorch.
Chapter 10, Applications of Object Detection and Segmentation, sums up the
learnings of all the previous chapters where you will implement object

--- Strana 24 ---
detection, segmentation in a few lines of code, implement models to
perform human crowd counting and image colorization. Finally, you will
also learn about how 3D object detection on a real-world dataset.
Chapter 11, Autoencoders and Image Manipulation, , lays the foundation for
modifying an image. You will start by learning about various autoencoders
that help in compressing an image and also generating novel images. Next,
you will learn about adversarial attack that fools a model before
implementing neural style transfer. Finally, you will implement an
autoencoder to generate deep fake images.
Chapter 12, Image Generation Using GANs, starts by giving you a deep dive
into how GANs work. Next, you will implement fake facial image
generation as well as generating images of interest using GANs.
Chapter 13, Advanced GANs to Manipulate Images, takes image manipulation
to the next level. You will implement GANs to convert objects from one
class to another, generate images from sketches, and manipulate custom
images so that we can generate an image in a specific style. By the end of
this chapter, you can confidently perform image manipulation using a
combination of autoencoders and GANs.
Chapter 14, Training with Minimal Data Points, lays the foundation where
you will learn about leveraging other techniques in combination with
computer vision techniques. You will also learn about classifying images
from minimal and also zero training data points.
Chapter 15, Combining Computer Vision and NLP Techniques, gives you the
working details of various NLP techniques like word embedding, LSTM,
transformer, using which you will implement applications like image
captioning, OCR, and object detection with transformers.
Chapter 16, Combining Computer Vision and Reinforcement Learning, starts
by exposing you to the terminology of RL and also the way to assign value
to a state. You will appreciate how RL and neural networks can be
combined as you learn about Deep Q-Learning. With this learning, you will

--- Strana 25 ---
implement an agent to play the game of Pong and also an agent to
implement a self-driving car.
Chapter 17, Moving a Model to Production, describes the best practices of
moving a model to production. You will first learn about deploying a model
on a local server before moving it to the AWS public cloud.
Chapter 18, Using OpenCV Utilities for Image Analysis, details the various
OpenCV utilities to create 5 interesting applications. Through this chapter,
you will learn about utilities that aid deep learning as well as utilities that
can substitute deep learning in scenarios where there are considerable
constraints on memory or speed of inference.
To get the most out of this book
Software/hardware covered in the book
OS requirements
Minimum 128 GB storage
Minimum 8 GB RAM
Intel i5 processor or better
NVIDIA 8+ GB graphics card – GTX1070 or
better
Minimum 50 Mbps internet speed
Windows, Linux,
and macOS
Python 3.6 and above
Windows, Linux,
and macOS
PyTorch 1.7
Windows, Linux,
and macOS

--- Strana 26 ---
Google Colab (can run in any browser)
Windows, Linux,
and macOS
 
Do note that almost all the code in the book can be run using Google Colab
by clicking the Open Colab button in each of the notebooks for the
chapters on GitHub.
If you are using the digital version of this book, we advise you to type
the code yourself or access the code via the GitHub repository (link
available in the next section). Doing so will help you avoid any potential
errors related to the copying and pasting of code.
Download the example code files
You can download the example code files for this book from GitHub at http
s://github.com/PacktPublishing/Modern-Computer-Vision-with-PyTorch. In case there's
an update to the code, it will be updated on the existing GitHub repository.
We also have other code bundles from our rich catalog of books and videos
available at https://github.com/PacktPublishing/. Check them out!
Download the color images
We also provide a PDF file that has color images of the
screenshots/diagrams used in this book. You can download it here: https://st
atic.packt-cdn.com/downloads/9781839213472_ColorImages.pdf.
Conventions used
There are a number of text conventions used throughout this book.

--- Strana 27 ---
CodeInText: Indicates code words in the text, database table names, folder
names, filenames, file extensions, pathnames, dummy URLs, user input,
and Twitter handles. Here is an example: "We are creating an object of
the FMNISTDataset class named val, in addition to the train object that we saw
earlier."
A block of code is set as follows:
# Crop image
img = img[50:250,40:240]
# Convert image to grayscale
img_gray = cv2.cvtColor(img, cv2.COLOR_BGR2GRAY)
# Show image
plt.imshow(img_gray, cmap='gray')
When we wish to draw your attention to a particular part of a code block,
the relevant lines or items are set in bold:
def accuracy(x, y, model):
    model.eval() # <- let's wait till we get to dropout section
    # get the prediction matrix for a tensor of `x` images
    prediction = model(x)
    # compute if the location of maximum in each row coincides
    # with ground truth
    max_values, argmaxes = prediction.max(-1)
    is_correct = argmaxes == y
    return is_correct.cpu().numpy().tolist()
Bold: Indicates a new term, an important word, or words that you see
onscreen. For example, words in menus or dialog boxes appear in the text
like this. Here is an example: "We will apply gradient descent (after a
feedforward pass) using one batch at a
time until we exhaust all data points within one epoch of training."
Warnings or important notes appear like this.
Tips and tricks appear like this.
Get in touch
Feedback from our readers is always welcome.

--- Strana 28 ---
General feedback: If you have questions about any aspect of this
book, mention the book title in the subject of your message and email us
at customercare@packtpub.com.
Errata: Although we have taken every care to ensure the accuracy of our
content, mistakes do happen. If you have found a mistake in this book, we
would be grateful if you would report this to us. Please visit www.packtpub.com/
support/errata, selecting your book, clicking on the Errata Submission Form
link, and entering the details.
Piracy: If you come across any illegal copies of our works in any form on
the Internet, we would be grateful if you would provide us with the location
address or website name. Please contact us at copyright@packt.com with a link
to the material.
If you are interested in becoming an author: If there is a topic that you
have expertise in and you are interested in either writing or contributing to a
book, please visit authors.packtpub.com.
Reviews
Please leave a review. Once you have read and used this book, why not
leave a review on the site that you purchased it from? Potential readers can
then see and use your unbiased opinion to make purchase decisions, we at
Packt can understand what you think about our products, and our authors
can see your feedback on their book. Thank you!
For more information about Packt, please visit packt.com.

--- Strana 29 ---
Section 1 - Fundamentals of Deep
Learning for Computer Vision
In this section, we will learn what the basic building blocks of a neural
network are, and what the role of each block is, in order to successfully
train a network. In this part, we will first briefly look at the theory of neural
networks, before moving on to building and training neural networks with
the PyTorch library.
This section comprises the following chapters:
Chapter 1, Artificial Neural Network Fundamentals
Chapter 2, PyTorch Fundamentals
Chapter 3, Building a Deep Neural Network with PyTorch

--- Strana 30 ---
Artificial Neural Network
Fundamentals
An Artificial Neural Network (ANN) is a supervised learning algorithm
that is loosely inspired by the way the human brain functions. Similar to the
way neurons are connected and activated in the human brain, a neural
network takes input and passes it through a function, resulting in certain
subsequent neurons getting activated, and consequently producing the
output.
There are several standard ANN architectures. The universal approximation
theorem says that we can always find a large enough neural network
architecture with the right set of weights that can exactly predict any output
for any given input. This means, for a given dataset/task we can create an
architecture and keep adjusting its weights until the ANN predicts what we
want it to predict. Adjusting the weights until this happens is called training
the neural network. Successful training on large datasets and customized
architecture is how ANNs have gained prominence in solving various
relevant tasks. 
One of the prominent tasks in computer vision is to recognize the class of the
object present in an image. ImageNet was a competition held to identify the
class of objects present in an image. The reduction in classification error rate
over the years is as follows:

--- Strana 31 ---
The year 2012 was when a neural network (AlexNet) was used in the
winning solution of the competition. As you can see from the preceding
chart, there was a considerable reduction in errors from the year 2011 to the
year 2012 by leveraging neural networks. Over time since then, with more
deep and complex neural networks, the classification error kept reducing and
has beaten human-level performance. This gives a solid motivation for us to
learn and implement neural networks for our custom tasks, where applicable.
In this chapter, we will create a very simple architecture on a simple dataset
and mainly focus on how the various building blocks (feedforward,
backpropagation, learning rate) of an ANN help in adjusting the weights so
that the network learns to predict the expected outputs from given inputs. We
will first learn, mathematically, what a neural network is, and then build one
from scratch to have a solid foundation. Then we will learn about each
component responsible for training the neural network and code them as
well. Overall, we will cover the following topics:
Comparing AI and traditional machine learning
Learning about the artificial neural network building blocks
Implementing feedforward propagation

--- Strana 32 ---
Implementing backpropagation
Putting feedforward propagation and backpropagation together
Understanding the impact of the learning rate
Summarizing the training process of a neural network
Comparing AI and traditional
machine learning
Traditionally, systems were made intelligent by using sophisticated
algorithms written by programmers.
For example, say you are interested in recognizing whether a photo contains
a dog or not. In the traditional Machine Learning (ML) setting, an ML
practitioner or a subject matter expert first identifies the features that need to
be extracted from images. Then they extract those features and pass them
through a well-written algorithm that deciphers the given features to tell
whether the image is of a dog or not. The following diagram illustrates the
same idea:

--- Strana 33 ---
Take the following samples:

--- Strana 34 ---
From the preceding images, a simple rule might be that if an image contains
three black circles aligned in a triangular shape, it can be classified as a dog.
However, this rule would fail against this deceptive close-up of a muffin: 
Of course, this rule also fails when shown an image with anything other than
a dog's face close up. Naturally, therefore, the number of manual rules we'd
need to create for the accurate classification of multiple types can be
exponential, especially as images become more complex. Therefore,
the traditional approach works well in a very constrained environment (say,
taking a passport photo where all the dimensions are constrained within
millimeters) and works badly in an unconstrained environment, where every
image varies a lot.

--- Strana 35 ---
We can extend the same line of thought to any domain, such as text or
structured data. In the past, if someone was interested in programming to
solve a real-world task, it became necessary for them to understand
everything about the input data and write as many rules as possible to cover
every scenario. This is tedious and there is no guarantee that all new
scenarios would follow said rules.
However, by leveraging artificial neural networks, we can do this in a single
step.
Neural networks provide the unique benefit of combining feature extraction
(hand-tuning) and use those features for classification/regression in a single
shot with little manual feature engineering. Both these subtasks only require
labeled data (for example, which pictures are dogs and which pictures are
not dogs) and neural network architecture. It does not require a human to
come up with rules to classify an image, which takes away the majority of
the burden traditional techniques impose on the programmer.
Notice that the main requirement is that we provide a considerable amount
of examples for the task that needs a solution. For example, in the preceding
case, we need to provide lots and lots of dog and not-dog pictures to the
model so it learns the features. A high-level view of how neural networks are
leveraged for the task of classification is as follows:
Now that we have gained a very high-level overview of the fundamental
reason why neural networks perform better than traditional computer vision

--- Strana 36 ---
methods, let's gain a deeper understanding of how neural networks work
throughout the various sections in this chapter.
Learning about the artificial neural
network building blocks
An ANN is a collection of tensors (weights) and mathematical operations,
arranged in such a way to loosely replicate the functioning of a human brain.
It can be viewed as a mathematical function that takes in one or more tensors
as inputs and predicts one or more tensors as outputs. The arrangement of
operations that connects these inputs to outputs is referred to as the
architecture of the neural network – which we can customize based on the
task at hand, that is, based on whether the problem contains structured
(tabular) or unstructured (image, text, audio) data (which is the list of input
and output tensors).
An ANN is made up of the following:
Input layers: These layers take the independent variables as input.
Hidden (intermediate) layers: These layers connect the input and
output layers while performing transformations on top of input data.
Furthermore, the hidden layers contain nodes (units/circles in the
following diagram) to modify their input values into higher-/lower-
dimensional values. The functionality to achieve a more complex
representation is achieved by using various activation functions that
modify the values of the nodes of intermediate layers.
Output layer: This contains the values the input variables are expected
to result in.
With this in mind, the typical structure of a neural network is as follows:

--- Strana 37 ---
The number of nodes (circles in the preceding diagram) in the output layer
depends on the task at hand and whether we are trying to predict a
continuous variable or a categorical variable. If the output is a continuous
variable, the output has one node. If the output is categorical with m possible
classes, there will be m nodes in the output layer. Let's zoom into one of the
nodes/neurons and see what's happening. A neuron transforms
its inputs as follows:

--- Strana 38 ---
In the preceding diagram, x1,x2, ..., xn are the input variables, and w0 is the
bias term (similar to the way we have a bias in linear/logistic regression).
Note that w1,w2, ..., wn are the weights given to each of the input variables
and w0 is the bias term. The output value a is calculated as follows:
As you can see, it is the sum of the products of weight and input pairs
followed by an additional function f (the bias term + sum of
products). The function f  is the activation function that is used to apply non-
linearity on top of this sum of products. More details on the activation
functions will be provided in the next section, on feedforward propagation.
Further, higher nonlinearity can be achieved by having more than one hidden
layer, stacking multitudes of neurons.
At a high level, a neural network is a collection of nodes where each node
has an adjustable float value and the nodes are interconnected as a graph to
return outputs in a format that is dictated by the architecture of the network.
The network constitutes three main parts: the input layer, the hidden layer(s),
and the output layer. Note that you can have a higher number (n) of hidden
layers, with the term deep learning referring to the greater number of hidden
layers. Typically, more hidden layers are needed when the neural network
has to comprehend something complicated such as image recognition.
With the architecture of a neural network understood, in the next section, we
will learn about feedforward propagation, which helps in estimating the
amount of error (loss) the network architecture has.
Implementing feedforward
propagation

--- Strana 39 ---
To build a strong foundational understanding of how feedforward
propagation works, we'll go through a toy example of training a neural
network where the input to the neural network is (1, 1) and the
corresponding (expected) output is 0. Here, we are going to find the optimal
weights of the neural network based on this single input-output pair.
However, you should note that in reality, there will be thousands of data
points on which an ANN is trained.
Our neural network architecture for this example contains one hidden layer
with three nodes in it, as follows:
Every arrow in the preceding diagram contains exactly one float value
(weight) that is adjustable. There are 9 (6 in the first hidden layer and 3 in
the second) floats that we need to find, so that when the input is (1,1), the
output is as close to (0) as possible. This is what we mean by training the
neural network. We have not introduced a bias value yet, for simplicity
purposes only – the underlying logic remains the same.
In the subsequent sections, we will learn the following about the preceding
network:

--- Strana 40 ---
Calculating hidden layer values
Performing non-linear activations
Estimating the output layer value
Calculating the loss value corresponding to the expected value
Calculating the hidden layer unit values
We'll now assign weights to all of the connections. In the first step, we
assign weights randomly across all the connections. And in general, neural
networks are initialized with random weights before the training starts.
Again, for simplicity, while introducing the topic, we will not include the
bias value while learning about feedforward propagation and
backpropagation. But we will have it while implementing both feedforward
propagation and backpropagation from scratch.
Let's start with initial weights that are randomly initialized between 0 and 1,
but note that the final weights after the training process of a neural network
don't need to be between a specific set of values. A formal representation of
weights and values in the network is provided in the following diagram (left
half) and the randomly initialized weights are provided in the network in the
right half.
In the next step, we perform the multiplication of the input with weights to
calculate the values of hidden units in the hidden layer.
The hidden layer's unit values before activation are obtained as follows:

--- Strana 41 ---
The hidden layer's unit values (before activation) that are calculated here are
also shown in the following diagram:
Now, we will pass the hidden layer values through a non-linearity activation.
Note that, if we do not apply a non-linear activation function in the hidden
layer, the neural network becomes a giant linear connection from input to
output, no matter how many hidden layers exist.
Applying the activation function
Activation functions help in modeling complex relations between the input
and the output.
Some of the frequently used activation functions are calculated as follows
(where x is the input):

--- Strana 42 ---
Visualizations of each of the preceding activations for various input values
are as follows:
For our example, let’s use the sigmoid (logistic) function for activation. 
By applying sigmoid (logistic) activation, S(x), to the three hidden
layer sums, we get the following values after sigmoid activation:

--- Strana 43 ---
Now that we have obtained the hidden layer values after activation, in the
next section, we will obtain the output layer values.
Calculating the output layer values
So far, we have calculated the final hidden layer values after applying the
sigmoid activation. Using the hidden layer values after activation, and the
weight values (which are randomly initialized in the first iteration), we will
calculate the output value for our network:
We perform the sum of products of the hidden layer values and weight
values to calculate the output value. Another reminder: we excluded the bias
terms that need to be added at each unit(node), only to simplify our
understanding of the working details of feedforward propagation and

--- Strana 44 ---
backpropagation for now and will include it while coding up feedforward
propagation and backpropagation:
Because we started with a random set of weights, the value of the output
node is very different from the target. In this case, the difference
is 1.235 (remember, the target is 0). In the next section, we will learn about
calculating the loss value associated with the network in its current state.
Calculating loss values
Loss values (alternatively called cost functions) are the values that we
optimize for in a neural network. To understand how loss values get
calculated, let's look at two scenarios:
Categorical variable prediction
Continuous variable prediction
Calculating loss during continuous variable prediction
Typically, when the variable is continuous, the loss value is calculated as the
mean of the square of the difference in actual values and predictions, that is,
we try to minimize the mean squared error by varying the weight values
associated with the neural network. The mean squared error value is
calculated as follows:
In the preceding equation, 
 is the actual output. 
 is the prediction
computed by the neural network   (whose weights are stored in the form of 
), where its input is 
, and m is the number of rows in the dataset. 

--- Strana 45 ---
The key takeaway should be the fact that for every unique set of weights, the neural
network would predict a different loss and we need to find the golden set of weights for
which the loss is zero (or, in realistic scenarios, as close to zero as possible).
In our example, let's assume that the outcome that we are predicting is
continuous. In that case, the loss function value is the mean squared error,
which is calculated as follows:
Now that we understand how to calculate the loss value for a continuous
variable, in the next section, we will learn about calculating the loss value
for a categorical variable.
Calculating loss during categorical variable prediction
When the variable to predict is discrete (that is, there are only a few
categories in the variable), we typically use a categorical cross-entropy loss
function. When the variable to predict has two distinct values within it, the
loss function is binary cross-entropy.
Binary cross-entropy is calculated as follows:
y is the actual value of the output, p is the predicted value of the output,
and m is the total number of data points.
Categorical cross-entropy is calculated as follows:

--- Strana 46 ---
y is the actual value of the output, p is the predicted value of the output, m is
the total number of data points, and C is the total number of classes.
A simple way of visualizing cross-entropy loss is to look at the prediction
matrix itself. Say you are predicting five classes – Dog, Cat, Rat, Cow, and
Hen – in an image recognition problem. The neural network would
necessarily have five neurons in the last layer with softmax activation (more
on softmax in the next section). It will be thus forced to predict a probability
for every class, for every data point. Say there are five images and the
prediction probabilities look like so (the highlighted cell in each row
corresponds to the target class): 
Note that each row sums to 1. In the first row, when the target is Dog and the
prediction probability is 0.88, the corresponding loss is 0.128 (which is the
negative of the log of 0.88). Similarly, other losses are computed. As you
can see, the loss value is less when the probability of the correct class is
high. As you know, the probabilities range between 0 and 1. So, the
minimum possible loss can be 0 (when the probability is 1) and the
maximum loss can be infinity when the probability is 0.
The final loss within a dataset is the mean of all individual losses across all
rows.
Now that we have a solid understanding of calculating mean squared error
loss and cross-entropy loss, let's get back to our toy example. Assuming our
output is a continuous variable, we will learn how to minimize the loss value
using backpropagation in a later section. We will update the weight values 
 (which were initialized randomly earlier) to minimize the loss (
). But,

--- Strana 47 ---
before that, let's first code feedforward propagation in Python using NumPy
arrays to solidify our understanding of its working details.
Feedforward propagation in code
A high-level strategy of coding feedforward propagation is as follows:
1. Perform a sum product at each neuron.
2. Compute activation.
3. Repeat the first two steps at each neuron until the output layer.
4. Compute the loss by comparing the prediction with the actual output.
It is going to be a function that takes in input data, current neural network
weights, and output data as the inputs to the function and returns the loss of
the current network state.
The feedforward function to calculate the mean squared error loss values
across all data points is as follows:
The following code is available as Feed_forward_propagation.ipynb in the Chapter01 folder of
this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
We strongly encourage you to execute the code notebooks by clicking the
Open in Colab button in each notebook. A sample screenshot is as follows:

--- Strana 48 ---
Once you click on Open in Colab (highlighted in the preceding screenshot),
you will be able to execute all the code without any hassle and should be
able to replicate the results shown in this book.
With the way to execute code in place, let's go ahead and code feedforward
propagation:
1. Take the input variable values (inputs), weights (randomly initialized if
this is the first iteration), and the actual outputs in the provided dataset as
the parameters of the feed_forward function:
import numpy as np
def feed_forward(inputs, outputs, weights):        
To make this exercise a little more realistic, we will have bias
associated with each node. Thus the weights array will contain not
only the weights connecting different nodes but also the bias
associated with nodes in hidden/ output layers.
2. Calculate hidden layer values by performing the matrix multiplication
(np.dot) of inputs and weight values (weights[0]) connecting the input

--- Strana 49 ---
layer to the hidden layer and add the bias terms (weights[1]) associated
with the hidden layer's nodes:
    pre_hidden = np.dot(inputs,weights[0])+ weights[1]
3. Apply the sigmoid activation function on top of the hidden layer values
obtained in the previous step – pre_hidden:
    hidden = 1/(1+np.exp(-pre_hidden))
4. Calculate the output layer values by performing the matrix
multiplication (np.dot) of hidden layer activation values (hidden) and
weights connecting the hidden layer to the output layer (weights[2]) and
summing the output with bias associated with the node in the output
layer – weights[3]:
    pred_out = np.dot(hidden, weights[2]) + weights[3]
5. Calculate the mean squared error value across the dataset and return the
mean squared error:
    mean_squared_error = np.mean(np.square(pred_out \
                                           - outputs)) 
    return mean_squared_error
We are now in a position to get the mean squared error value as we forward-
pass through the network. 
Before we learn about backpropagation, let's learn about some constituents
of the feedforward network that we built previously – the activation
functions and loss value calculation – by implementing them in NumPy so
that we have a detailed understanding of how they work.
Activation functions in code
While we applied the sigmoid activation on top of the hidden layer values in
the preceding code, let's examine other activation functions that are
commonly used:
Tanh: The tanh activation of a value (the hidden layer unit value) is
calculated as follows:

--- Strana 50 ---
def tanh(x): 
    return (np.exp(x)-np.exp(-x))/(np.exp(x)+np.exp(-x))
ReLU: The Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU) of a value (the hidden layer
unit value) is calculated as follows:
def relu(x):       
    return np.where(x>0,x,0)
Linear: The linear activation of a value is the value itself. This is
represented as follows:
def linear(x):       
    return x
Softmax: Unlike other activations, softmax is performed on top of an
array of values. This is generally done to determine the probability of
an input belonging to one of the m number of possible output classes in
a given scenario. Let's say we are trying to classify an image of a digit
into one of the possible 10 classes (numbers from 0 to 9). In this case,
there are 10 output values, where each output value should represent the
probability of an input image belonging to one of the 10 classes.
Softmax activation is used to provide a probability value for each
class in the output and is calculated as follows:
def softmax(x):       
    return np.exp(x)/np.sum(np.exp(x))
Notice the two operations on top of input x – np.exp will make all values
positive, and the division by np.sum(np.exp(x)) of all such exponents will force
all the values to be in between 0 and 1. This range coincides with the
probability of an event. And this is what we mean by returning a probability
vector. 
Now that we have learned about various activation functions, next, we will
learn about the different loss functions.
Loss functions in code

--- Strana 51 ---
Loss values (which are minimized during a neural network training process)
are minimized by updating weight values. Defining the proper loss function
is the key to building a working and reliable neural network model. The loss
functions that are generally used while building a neural network are as
follows: 
Mean squared error: The mean squared error is the squared difference
between the actual and the predicted values of the output. We take a
square of the error, as the error can be positive or negative (when the
predicted value is greater than the actual value and vice versa).
Squaring ensures that positive and negative errors do not offset each
other. We calculate the mean of the squared error so that the error over
two different datasets is comparable when the datasets are not of the
same size.
The mean squared error between an array of predicted output values
(p) and an array of actual output values (y) is calculated as follows:
def mse(p, y):   
    return np.mean(np.square(p - y))
The mean squared error is typically used when trying to predict a
value that is continuous in nature.
Mean absolute error: The mean absolute error works in a manner that
is very similar to the mean squared error. The mean absolute error
ensures that positive and negative errors do not offset each other by
taking an average of the absolute difference between the actual and
predicted values across all data points.
The mean absolute error between an array of predicted output values
(p) and an array of actual output values (y) is implemented as follows:
def mae(p, y):       
    return np.mean(np.abs(p-y))
Similar to the mean squared error, the mean absolute error is
generally employed on continuous variables. Further, in general, it is
preferable to have a mean absolute error as a loss function when the

--- Strana 52 ---
outputs to predict have a value less than 1, as the mean squared error
would reduce the magnitude of loss considerably (the square of a
number between 1 and -1 is an even smaller number) when the
expected output is less than 1.
Binary cross-entropy: Cross-entropy is a measure of the difference
between two different distributions: actual and predicted. Binary cross-
entropy is applied to binary output data, unlike the previous two loss
functions that we discussed (which are applied during continuous
variable prediction).
Binary cross-entropy between an array of predicted values (p) and an
array of actual values (y) is implemented as follows:
def binary_cross_entropy(p, y):      
    return -np.mean(np.sum((y*np.log(p)+(1-y)*np.log(1-p))))
Note that binary cross-entropy loss has a high value when the
predicted value is far away from the actual value and a low value
when the predicted and actual values are close.
Categorical cross-entropy: Categorical cross-entropy between an
array of predicted values (p) and an array of actual values (y) is
implemented as follows:
def categorical_cross_entropy(p, y):         
    return -np.mean(np.sum(y*np.log(p)))
So far, we have learned about feedforward propagation, and various
components, such as weight initialization, bias associated with nodes,
activation, and loss functions, that constitute it. In the next section, we will
learn about backpropagation, a technique to adjust weights so that they will
result in a loss that is as small as possible.
Implementing backpropagation
In feedforward propagation, we connected the input layer to the hidden
layer, which then was connected to the output layer. In the first iteration, we

--- Strana 53 ---
initialized weights randomly and then calculated the loss resulting from
those weight values. In backpropagation, we take the reverse approach. We
start with the loss value obtained in feedforward propagation and update the
weights of the network in such a way that the loss value is minimized as
much as possible.
The loss value is reduced as we perform the following steps:
1. Change each weight within the neural network by a small amount – one
at a time.
2. Measure the change in loss (
) when the weight value is changed (
).
3. Update the weight by 
 (where k is a positive value and is a
hyperparameter known as the learning rate).
Note that the update made to a particular weight is proportional to the amount of loss
that is reduced by changing it by a small amount. Intuitively, if changing a weight
reduces the loss by a large value, then we can update the weight by a large amount.
However, if the loss reduction is small by changing the weight, then we update it only by
a small amount.
If the preceding steps are performed n number of times on the entire dataset
(where we have done both the feedforward propagation and
backpropagation), it essentially results in training for n epochs.
As a typical neural network contains thousands/millions (if not billions) of
weights, changing the value of each weight, and checking whether the loss
increased or decreased is not optimal. The core step in the preceding list is
the measurement of "change of loss" when the weight is changed. As you
might have studied in calculus, measuring this is the same as computing the
gradient of loss concerning the weight. There's more on leveraging partial
derivatives from calculus to calculate the gradient of the loss concerning the
weight in the next section, on the chain rule for backpropagation.
In this section, we will implement gradient descent from scratch by updating
one weight at a time by a small amount as detailed at the start of this section.

--- Strana 54 ---
However, before implementing backpropagation, let's understand one
additional detail of neural networks: the learning rate.
Intuitively, the learning rate helps in building trust in the algorithm. For
example, when deciding on the magnitude of the weight update, we would
potentially not change the weight value by a big amount in one go but update
it more slowly.
This results in obtaining stability in our model; we will look at how the
learning rate helps with stability in the Understanding the impact of the
learning rate section.
This whole process by which we update weights to reduce errors is
called gradient descent.
Stochastic gradient descent is how errors are minimized in the preceding
scenario. As mentioned earlier, gradient stands for the difference (which is
the difference in loss values when the weight value is updated by a small
amount) and descent means to reduce. Stochastic stands for the selection of
random samples based on which a decision is taken.
Apart from stochastic gradient descent, many other similar optimizers help
to minimize loss values; the different optimizers will be discussed in the next
chapter.
In the next two sections, we will learn about coding the intuition for
backpropagation from scratch in Python, and will also discuss in brief how
backpropagation works using the chain rule.
Gradient descent in code
Gradient descent is implemented in Python as follows:
The following code is available as Gradient_descent.ipynb in the Chapter01 folder of this
book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 

--- Strana 55 ---
1. Define the feedforward network and calculate the mean squared error
loss value as we did in the Feedforward propagation in code section:
from copy import deepcopy
import numpy as np
def feed_forward(inputs, outputs, weights): 
    pre_hidden = np.dot(inputs,weights[0])+ weights[1]
    hidden = 1/(1+np.exp(-pre_hidden))
    pred_out = np.dot(hidden, weights[2]) + weights[3]
    mean_squared_error = np.mean(np.square(pred_out \
                                           - outputs)) 
    return mean_squared_error
2. Increase each weight and bias value by a very small amount (0.0001)
and calculate the overall squared error loss value one at a time for each
of the weight and bias updates.
In the following code, we are creating a function named
update_weights, which performs the gradient descent process to update
weights. The inputs to the function are the input variables to the
network – inputs, expected outputs, weights (which are randomly
initialized at the start of training the model), and the learning rate of
the model – lr (more on the learning rate in a later section):
def update_weights(inputs, outputs, weights, lr):
Ensure that you deepcopy the list of weights. As the weights will be
manipulated in later steps, deepcopy ensures we can work with
multiple copies of weights without disturbing actual weights. We
will create three copies of the original set of weights that were
passed as an input to the function – original_weights, temp_weights, and
updated_weights:
original_weights = deepcopy(weights)
temp_weights = deepcopy(weights)
updated_weights = deepcopy(weights)           
Calculate the loss value (original_loss) with the original set of
weights by passing inputs, outputs, and original_weights through
the feed_forward function:
original_loss = feed_forward(inputs, outputs, \
                                 original_weights)
We will loop through all the layers of the network:

--- Strana 56 ---
for i, layer in enumerate(original_weights):
There are a total of four lists of parameters within our neural
network – two lists for the weight and bias parameters that connect
the input to the hidden layer and another two lists for the weight and
bias parameters that connect the hidden layer to the output layer.
Now, we loop through all the individual parameters and because
each list has a different shape, we leverage np.ndenumerate to loop
through each parameter within a given list:
for index, weight in np.ndenumerate(layer):
Now we store the original set of weights in temp_weights. We select its
index weight present in the ith layer and increase it by a small value.
Finally, we compute the new loss with the new set of weights for
the neural network: 
temp_weights = deepcopy(weights)
temp_weights[i][index] += 0.0001
_loss_plus = feed_forward(inputs, outputs, \
                            temp_weights)
In the first line of the preceding code, we are resetting temp_weights
to the original set of weights, as in each iteration, we update a
different parameter to calculate the loss when a parameter is
updated by a small amount within a given epoch.
We calculate the gradient (change in loss value) due to the weight
change:
grad = (_loss_plus - original_loss)/(0.0001)
This process of updating a parameter by a very small amount and then calculating the
gradient is equivalent to the process of differentiation.
Finally, we update the parameter present in the
corresponding ith layer and index, of updated_weights. The
updated weight value will be reduced in proportion to the value of
the gradient. Further, instead of completely reducing it by a value
equal to the gradient value, we bring in a mechanism to build trust
slowly by using the learning rate – lr (more on learning rate in the
Understanding the impact of the learning rate section):

--- Strana 57 ---
updated_weights[i][index] -= grad*lr
Once the parameter values across all layers and indices within
layers are updated, we return the updated weight values –
 updated_weights:
return updated_weights, original_loss
One of the other parameters in a neural network is the batch size considered
in calculating the loss values.
In the preceding scenario, we considered all the data points to calculate the
loss (mean squared error) value. However, in practice, when we have
thousands (or in some cases, millions) of data points, the incremental
contribution of a greater number of data points while calculating the loss
value would follow the law of diminishing returns, and hence we would be
using a batch size that is much smaller compared to the total number of data
points we have. We will apply gradient descent (after feedforward
propagation) using one batch at a time until we exhaust all data points
within one epoch of training. 
The typical batch size considered in building a model is anywhere between
32 and 1,024.
In this section, we learned about updating weight values based on the change
in loss values when the weight values are changed by a small amount. In the
next section, we will learn about how weights can be updated without
computing gradients one gradient at a time. 
Implementing backpropagation using the chain
rule
So far, we have calculated gradients of loss concerning weight by updating
the weight by a small amount and then calculating the difference between
the feedforward loss in the original scenario (when the weight was
unchanged) and the feedforward loss after updating weights. One drawback
of updating weight values in this manner is that when the network is large, a

--- Strana 58 ---
large number of computations are needed to calculate loss values (and in
fact, the computations are to be done twice – once where weight values are
unchanged and again where weight values are updated by a small amount).
This results in more computations and hence requires more resources and
time. In this section, we will learn about leveraging the chain rule, which
does not require us to manually compute loss values to come up with the
gradient of the loss concerning the weight value.
In the first iteration (where we initialized weights randomly), the predicted
value of the output is 1.235.
In order to get the theoretical formulation, let's denote the weights and
hidden layer values and hidden layer activations as w, h, and a respectively
as follows:
Note that, in the preceding diagrams, we have taken each component value
of the left diagram and generalized it in the diagram on right.
In order to keep it easy to comprehend, in this section, we will understand
how to use the chain rule to compute the gradient of loss value with respect
to only w11. The same learning can be extended to all the weights and biases
of the neural network. We encourage you to practice and apply the chain rule
calculation to the rest of the weights and bias values.
The chain_rule.ipynb notebook in the Chapter01 folder of this book's GitHub repository
contains the way to calculate gradients with respect to changes in weights and biases for
all the parameters in a network using the chain rule.

--- Strana 59 ---
Additionally, in order to keep this simple for our learning purposes, we will
be working on only one data point, where the input is {1,1} and the expected
output is {0}.
Given that we are calculating the gradient of loss value with w11, let's
understand all the intermediate components that are to be included while
calculating the gradient through the following diagram (the components that
do not connect the output to w11 are grayed out in the following diagram):
From the preceding diagram, we can see that w11 is contributing to the loss
value through the path that is highlighted, – 
, 
, and  .
Next, let's formulate how 
, 
, and   are obtained individually.
The loss value of the network is represented as follows:

--- Strana 60 ---
The predicted output value   is calculated as follows:
The hidden layer activation value (sigmoid activation) is calculated as
follows:
The hidden layer value is calculated as follows:
Now that we have formulated all the equations, let's calculate the impact of
the change in the loss value (C) with respect to the change in weight 
 as
follows:
This is called a chain rule. Essentially, we are performing a chain of
differentiations to fetch the differentiation of our interest.
Note that, in the preceding equation, we have built a chain of partial
differential equations in such a way that we are now able to perform partial
differentiation on each of the four components individually and ultimately
calculate the derivative of the loss value with respect to weight value 
. 
The individual partial derivatives in the preceding equation are computed as
follows:

--- Strana 61 ---
The partial derivative of the loss value with respect to the predicted
output value  
 is as follows:
The partial derivative of the predicted output value  
 with respect to
the hidden layer activation value 
 is as follows:
The partial derivative of the hidden layer activation value 
 with
respect to the hidden layer value prior to activation 
 is as follows:
Note that the preceding equation comes from the fact that the derivative of
the sigmoid function   is 
.
The partial derivative of the hidden layer value prior to activation 
 with respect to the weight value 
 is as follows:
With this in place, the gradient of the loss value with respect to 
 is
calculated by replacing each of the partial differentiation terms with the
corresponding value as calculated in the previous steps as follows:

--- Strana 62 ---
From the preceding formula, we can see that we are now able to calculate
the impact on the loss value of a small change in the weight value (the
gradient of the loss with respect to weight) without brute-forcing our way by
recomputing the feedforward propagation again.
Next, we will go ahead and update the weight value as follows:
Working versions of the two methods, 1) identifying gradients using the chain rule and
then updating weights, and 2) updating weight values by learning the impact a small
change in weight value can have on loss values, resulting in the same values for updated
weight values, are provided in the notebook Chain_rule.ipynb in the Chapter01 folder of this
book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
In gradient descent, we performed the weight update process sequentially
(one weight at a time). By leveraging the chain rule, we learned that there is
an alternative way to calculate the impact of a change in weight by a small
amount on the loss value, however, with an opportunity to perform
computations in parallel.
Because we are updating parameters across all layers, the whole process of updating
parameters can be parallelized. Further, given that in a realistic scenario, there can
exist millions of parameters across layers, performing the calculation for each
parameter on a different core of GPU results in the time taken to update weights is a
much faster exercise than looping through each weight, one at a time.
Now that we have a solid understanding of backpropagation, both from an
intuition perspective and also by leveraging the chain rule, in the next
section, we will learn about how feedforward and backpropagation work
together to arrive at the optimal weight values.
Putting feedforward propagation
and backpropagation together

--- Strana 63 ---
In this section, we will build a simple neural network with a hidden layer
that connects the input to the output on the same toy dataset that we worked
on in the Feedforward propagation in code section and also leverage
the update_weights function that we defined in the previous section to perform
backpropagation to obtain the optimal weight and bias values.
We define the model as follows:
1. The input is connected to a hidden layer that has three units/ nodes.
2. The hidden layer is connected to the output, which has one unit in the
output layer.
The following code is available as Back_propagation.ipynb in the Chapter01 folder of this
book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
We will create the network as follows:
1. Import the relevant packages and define the dataset:
from copy import deepcopy
import numpy as np 
x = np.array([[1,1]])
y = np.array([[0]])
2. Initialize the weight and bias values randomly.
The hidden layer has three units in it and each input node is
connected to each of the hidden layer units. Hence, there are a total
of six weight values and three bias values – one bias and two weights
(two weights coming from two input nodes) corresponding to each of
the hidden units. Additionally, the final layer has one unit that is
connected to the three units of the hidden layer. Hence, a total of
three weights and one bias dictate the value of the output layer. The
randomly initialized weights are as follows:
W = [
    np.array([[-0.0053, 0.3793], 
              [-0.5820, -0.5204],
              [-0.2723, 0.1896]], dtype=np.float32).T, 
    np.array([-0.0140, 0.5607, -0.0628], dtype=np.float32), 
    np.array([[ 0.1528,-0.1745,-0.1135]],dtype=np.float32).T, 
    np.array([-0.5516], dtype=np.float32)
]

--- Strana 64 ---
In the preceding code, the first array of parameters correspond to the
2 x 3 matrix of weights that connect the input layer to the hidden
layer. The second array of parameters represent the bias values
associated with each node of the hidden layer. The third array of
parameters correspond to the 3 x 1 matrix of weights joining the
hidden layer to the output layer, and the final array of parameters
represents the bias associated with the output layer.
3. Run the neural network through 100 epochs of feedforward propagation
and backpropagation – the functions of which were already learned and
defined as feed_forward and  update_weights functions in the previous
sections.
Define the feed_forward function:
def feed_forward(inputs, outputs, weights): 
    pre_hidden = np.dot(inputs,weights[0])+ weights[1]
    hidden = 1/(1+np.exp(-pre_hidden))
    pred_out = np.dot(hidden, weights[2]) + weights[3]
    mean_squared_error = np.mean(np.square(pred_out \
                                           - outputs)) 
    return mean_squared_error
Define the update_weights function:
def update_weights(inputs, outputs, weights, lr):
    original_weights = deepcopy(weights)
    temp_weights = deepcopy(weights)
    updated_weights = deepcopy(weights) 
    original_loss = feed_forward(inputs, outputs, \
                                 original_weights)
    for i, layer in enumerate(original_weights):
        for index, weight in np.ndenumerate(layer):
            temp_weights = deepcopy(weights)
            temp_weights[i][index] += 0.0001
            _loss_plus = feed_forward(inputs, outputs, \
                                      temp_weights)
            grad = (_loss_plus - original_loss)/(0.0001)
            updated_weights[i][index] -= grad*lr
    return updated_weights, original_loss
Update weights over 100 epochs and fetch the loss value and the
updated weight values:
losses = []
for epoch in range(100):
    W, loss = update_weights(x,y,W,0.01)
    losses.append(loss)

--- Strana 65 ---
4. Plot the loss values:
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
plt.plot(losses)
plt.title('Loss over increasing number of epochs')
plt.xlabel('Epochs')
plt.ylabel('Loss value')
The preceding code generates the following plot:
As you can see, the loss started at around 0.33 and steadily dropped
to around 0.0001. This is an indication that weights are adjusted
according to the input-output data and when an input is given, we can
expect it to predict the output that we have been comparing it against
in the loss function. The output weights are as follows:
[array([[ 0.01424004, -0.5907864 , -0.27549535],
        [ 0.39883757, -0.52918637, 0.18640439]], dtype=float32),
 array([ 0.00554004, 0.5519136 , -0.06599568], dtype=float32),
 array([[ 0.3475135 ],
        [-0.05529078],
        [ 0.03760847]], dtype=float32),
 array([-0.22443289], dtype=float32)]
The PyTorch version of the same code with the same weights is demonstrated in
the GitHub notebook (Auto_gradient_of_tensors.ipynb). Revisit this section after
understanding the core PyTorch concepts in the next chapter. Verify for yourself that the

--- Strana 66 ---
input and output are indeed the same whether the network is written in NumPy or
PyTorch. Building a network from scratch using NumPy arrays, while sub-optimal, is
done in this chapter to help you have a solid foundation of the working details of neural
networks.
5. Once we have the updated weights, make the predictions for the input
by passing the input through the network and calculate the output value:
pre_hidden = np.dot(x,W[0]) + W[1]
hidden = 1/(1+np.exp(-pre_hidden))
pred_out = np.dot(hidden, W[2]) + W[3]
# -0.017
The output of the preceding code is the value of -0.017, which is a value that
is very close to the expected output of 0. As we train for more epochs,
the pred_out value gets even closer to 0. 
So far, we have learned about feedforward propagation and backpropagation.
The key piece in the update_weights function that we defined here is the
learning rate – which we will learn about in the next section.
Understanding the impact of the
learning rate 
In order to understand how learning rate impacts the training of a model,
let's consider a very simple case, where we try to fit the following equation
(note that the following equation is different from the toy dataset that we
have been working on so far):
Note that y is the output and x is the input. With a set of input and expected
output values, we will try and fit the equation with varying learning rates to
understand the impact of the learning rate.
The following code is available as Learning_rate.ipynb in the Chapter01 folder of this book's
GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 

--- Strana 67 ---
1. We specify the input and output dataset as follows:
x = [[1],[2],[3],[4]]
y = [[3],[6],[9],[12]]
2. Define the feed_forward function. Further, in this instance, we will modify
the network in such a way that we do not have a hidden layer and the
architecture is as follows:
Note that, in the preceding function, we are estimating the
parameters w and b:
from copy import deepcopy
import numpy as np
def feed_forward(inputs, outputs, weights):
    pred_out = np.dot(inputs,weights[0])+ weights[1]
    mean_squared_error = np.mean(np.square(pred_out \
                                           - outputs))
    return mean_squared_error
3. Define the update_weights function just like we defined it in the Gradient
descent in code section:
def update_weights(inputs, outputs, weights, lr):
    original_weights = deepcopy(weights)
    org_loss = feed_forward(inputs, outputs,original_weights)
    updated_weights = deepcopy(weights)
    for i, layer in enumerate(original_weights):
        for index, weight in np.ndenumerate(layer):
            temp_weights = deepcopy(weights)
            temp_weights[i][index] += 0.0001
            _loss_plus = feed_forward(inputs, outputs, \
                                      temp_weights)
            grad = (_loss_plus - org_loss)/(0.0001)
            updated_weights[i][index] -= grad*lr
    return updated_weights
4. Initialize weight and bias values to a random value:
W = [np.array([[0]], dtype=np.float32), 
     np.array([[0]], dtype=np.float32)]
Note that the weight and bias values are randomly initialized to
values of 0. Further, the shape of the input weight value is 1 x 1, as
the shape of each data point in the input is 1 x 1 and the shape of the

--- Strana 68 ---
bias value is  1 x 1 (as there is only one node in the output and each
output has one value).
5. Let's leverage the update_weights function with a learning rate of 0.01,
loop through 1,000 iterations, and check how the weight value (W) varies
over increasing epochs:
weight_value = []
for epx in range(1000):
    W = update_weights(x,y,W,0.01)
    weight_value.append(W[0][0][0])
Note that, in the preceding code, we are using a learning rate of 0.01
and repeating the update_weights function to fetch the modified weight
at the end of each epoch. Further, in each epoch, we gave the most
recent updated weight as an input to fetch the updated weight in the
next epoch.
6. Plot the value of the weight parameter at the end of each epoch:
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
epochs = range(1, 1001)
plt.plot(epochs,weight_value)
plt.title('Weight value over increasing \
epochs when learning rate is 0.01')
plt.xlabel('Epochs')
plt.ylabel('Weight value')
The preceding code results in a variation in the weight value over
increasing epochs as follows:

--- Strana 69 ---
Note that, in the preceding output, the weight value gradually increased in
the right direction and then saturated at the optimal value of  ~3.
In order to understand the impact of the value of the learning rate on arriving
at the optimal weight values, let's understand how weight value varies over
increasing epochs when the learning rate is 0.1 and when the learning rate is
1.
The following charts are obtained when we modify the corresponding
learning rate value in step 5 and execute step 6 (the code to generate the
following charts is the same as the code we learned earlier, with a change in
the learning rate value, and is available in the associated notebook in
GitHub):

--- Strana 70 ---
Note that when the learning rate was very small (0.01), the weight value
moved slowly (over a higher number of epochs) towards the optimal value.
However, with a slightly higher learning rate (0.1), the weight value
oscillated initially and then quickly saturated (in fewer epochs) to the
optimal value. Finally, when the learning rate was high (1), the weight value
spiked to a very high value and was not able to reach the optimal value.
The reason the weight value did not spike by a large amount when the
learning rate was low is that we restricted the weight update by an amount
that was equal to the gradient * learning rate, essentially resulting in a small
amount of weight update when the learning rate was small. However, when
the learning rate was high, weight update was high, after which the change
in loss (when the weight was updated by a small value) was so small that the
weight could not achieve the optimal value.
In order to have a deeper understanding of the interplay between the gradient
value, learning rate, and weight value, let's run the update_weights function
only for 10 epochs. Further, we will print the following values to understand
how they vary over increasing epochs:
Weight value at the start of each epoch
Loss prior to weight update
Loss when the weight is updated by a small amount
Gradient value
We modify the update_weights function to print the preceding values as
follows:

--- Strana 71 ---
def update_weights(inputs, outputs, weights, lr):
    original_weights = deepcopy(weights)
    org_loss = feed_forward(inputs, outputs, original_weights)
    updated_weights = deepcopy(weights)
    for i, layer in enumerate(original_weights):
        for index, weight in np.ndenumerate(layer):
            temp_weights = deepcopy(weights)
            temp_weights[i][index] += 0.0001
            _loss_plus = feed_forward(inputs, outputs, \
                                      temp_weights)
            grad = (_loss_plus - org_loss)/(0.0001)
            updated_weights[i][index] -= grad*lr
            if(i % 2 == 0):
                print('weight value:', \
                      np.round(original_weights[i][index],2), \
                      'original loss:', np.round(org_loss,2), \
                      'loss_plus:', np.round(_loss_plus,2), \
                      'gradient:', np.round(grad,2), \
                      'updated_weights:', \
                      np.round(updated_weights[i][index],2))
    return updated_weights
The lines highlighted in bold font in the preceding code are where we
modified the update_weights function from the previous section, where, first,
we are checking whether we are currently working on the weight parameter
by checking if (i % 2 == 0) as the other parameter corresponds to the bias
value, and then we are printing the original weight value (original_weights[i]
[index]), loss (org_loss), updated loss value (_loss_plus), gradient (grad), and the
resulting updated weight value (updated_weights).
Let's now understand how the preceding values vary over increasing epochs
across the three different learning rates that we are considering:
Learning rate of 0.01: We will check the values using the following
code:
W = [np.array([[0]], dtype=np.float32), 
     np.array([[0]], dtype=np.float32)]
weight_value = []
for epx in range(10):
    W = update_weights(x,y,W,0.01)
    weight_value.append(W[0][0][0])
print(W)
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
epochs = range(1, 11)
plt.plot(epochs,weight_value)
plt.title('Weight value over increasing \
epochs when learning rate is 0.01')
plt.xlabel('Epochs')
plt.ylabel('Weight value')

--- Strana 72 ---
The preceding code results in the following output:
Note that, when the learning rate was 0.01, the loss value decreased
slowly, and also the weight value updated slowly towards the optimal
value. Let's now understand how the preceding varies when the
learning rate is 0.1.
Learning rate of 0.1: The code remains the same as in the learning rate
of 0.01 scenario, however, the learning rate parameter would be 0.1 in
this scenario. The output of running the same code with the changed
learning rate parameter value is as follows:

--- Strana 73 ---
Let's contrast the learning rate scenarios of 0.01 and 0.1 – the major
difference between the two is as follows:
When the learning rate was 0.01, the weight updated much slower when
compared to a learning rate of 0.1 (from 0 to 0.45 in the first epoch when the
learning rate is 0.01, to 4.5 when the learning rate is 0.1). The reason for the
slower update is the lower learning rate as the weight is updated by the
gradient times the learning rate.
In addition to the weight update magnitude, we should note the direction of
the weight update:
The gradient is negative when the weight value is smaller than the optimal
value while it is positive when the weight value is larger than the optimal
value. This phenomenon helps in updating weight values in the right
direction.
Finally, we will contrast the preceding with a learning rate of 1:

--- Strana 74 ---
Learning rate of 1: The code remains the same as in the learning rate
of 0.01 scenario, however, the learning rate parameter would be 1 in
this scenario. The output of running the same code with the changed
learning rate parameter is as follows:
From the preceding diagram, we can see that the weight has deviated to a
very high value (as at the end of the first epoch, the weight value is 45,
which further deviated to a very large value in later epochs). In addition to
that, the weight value moved to a very large amount, so that a small change
in the weight value hardly results in a change in the gradient, and hence the
weight got stuck at that high value.
In general, it is better to have a low learning rate. This way, the model is able to learn
slowly but will adjust the weights towards an optimal value. Typical learning rate
parameter values range between 0.0001 and 0.01.
Now that we have learned about the building blocks of a neural network –
feedforward propagation, backpropagation, and learning rate, in the next
section, we will summarize a high-level overview of how these three are put
together to train a neural network.

--- Strana 75 ---
Summarizing the training process
of a neural network
Training a neural network is a process of coming up with optimal weights
for a neural network architecture by repeating the two key steps, forward-
propagation and backpropagation with a given learning rate.
In forward-propagation, we apply a set of weights to the input data, pass it
through the defined hidden layers, perform the defined nonlinear activation
on the hidden layers' output, and then connect the hidden layer to the output
layer by multiplying the hidden-layer node values with another set of
weights to estimate the output value. Then, we finally calculate the overall
loss corresponding to the given set of weights. For the first forward-
propagation, the values of the weights are initialized randomly.
In backpropagation, we decrease the loss value (error) by adjusting weights
in a direction that reduces the overall loss. Further, the magnitude of the
weight update is the gradient times the learning rate.
The process of feedforward propagation and backpropagation is repeated
until we achieve as minimal a loss as possible. This implies that, at the end
of the training, the neural network has adjusted its weights   such that it
predicts the output that we want it to predict. In the preceding toy example,
after training, the updated network will predict a value of 0 as output when
{1,1} is fed as input as it is trained to achieve that.
Summary
In this chapter, we understood the need for a single network that performs
both feature extraction and classification in a single shot, before we learned
about the architecture and the various components of an artificial neural
network. Next, we learned about how to connect the various layers of a
network before implementing feedforward propagation to calculate the loss

--- Strana 76 ---
value corresponding to the current weights of the network. We next
implemented backpropagation to learn about the way to optimize weights to
minimize the loss value. Further, we learned about how the learning rate
plays a role in achieving optimal weights for a network. In addition, we
implemented all the components of a network – feedforward propagation,
activation functions, loss functions, the chain rule, and gradient descent to
update weights in NumPy from scratch so that we have a solid foundation to
build upon in the next chapters.
Now that we understand how a neural network works, we'll implement one
using PyTorch in the next chapter, and dive deep into the various other
components (hyperparameters) that can be tweaked in a neural network in
the third chapter.
Questions
1. What are the various layers in a neural network?
2. What is the output of feedforward propagation?
3. How is the loss function of a continuous dependent variable different
from that of a binary dependent variable and also of a categorical
dependent variable?
4. What is stochastic gradient descent?
5. What does a backpropagation exercise do?
6. How does a weight update of all the weights across layers happen
during backpropagation?
7. Which functions of a neural network happen within each epoch of
training a neural network?
8. Why is training a network on a GPU faster when compared to training
it on a CPU?
9. How does the learning rate impact training a neural network?
10. What is the typical value of the learning rate parameter?

--- Strana 77 ---
PyTorch Fundamentals
In the previous chapter, we learned about the fundamental building blocks of a
neural network and also implemented forward and back-propagation from scratch
in Python.
In this chapter, we will dive into the foundations of building a neural network
using PyTorch, which we will leverage multiple times in subsequent chapters when
we learn about various use cases in image analysis. We will start by learning about
the core data type that PyTorch works on – tensor objects. We will then dive deep
into the various operations that can be performed on tensor objects and how to
leverage them when building a neural network model on top of a toy dataset (so
that we strengthen our understanding before we gradually look at more realistic
datasets, starting with the next chapter). This will allow us so to gain an intuition
of how to build neural network models using PyTorch to map input and output
values. Finally, we will learn about implementing custom loss functions so that we
can customize based on the use case we are solving.
Specifically, this chapter will cover the following topics:
Installing PyTorch
PyTorch tensors
Building a neural network using PyTorch
Using a sequential method to build a neural network
Saving and loading a PyTorch model
Installing PyTorch
PyTorch provides multiple functionalities that aid in building a neural network –
abstracting the various components using high-level methods and also providing us
with tensor objects that leverage GPUs to train a neural network faster.
Before installing PyTorch, we first need to install Python, as follows:
1. To install Python, we'll use the anaconda.com/distribution/ platform to fetch an
installer that will install Python as well as important deep learning-specific
libraries for us automatically:

--- Strana 78 ---
Choose the graphical installer of the latest Python version 3.xx (3.7, as of the
of writing this book) and let it download.
2. Install it using the downloaded installer:
Choose the Add Anaconda to my PATH environment variable option during installation as this
will make it easy to invoke Anaconda's version of Python when we type python in Command
Prompt/Terminal.
Next, we'll install PyTorch, which is equally simple.

--- Strana 79 ---
3. Visit the QUICK START LOCALLY section on the
https://pytorch.org/ website and choose your operating system (Your
OS), Conda for Package, Python for Language, and None for CUDA. If you
have CUDA libraries, you may choose the appropriate version:
This will prompt you to run a command such as conda install pytorch
torchvision cpuonly -c pytorch in your terminal. 
4. Run the command in Command Prompt/Terminal and let Anaconda install
PyTorch and the necessary dependencies. 
If you own an NVIDIA graphics card as a hardware component, it is highly recommended to
install CUDA drivers, which accelerate deep learning training by orders of magnitude. Do refer
to the Appendix for instructions on how to install CUDA drivers. Once you have them
installed, you can select 10.1 as the CUDA version and use that command instead to install
PyTorch.

--- Strana 80 ---
5. You can execute python in Command Prompt/Terminal and then type the
following to verify that PyTorch is indeed installed:
>>> import torch
>>> print(torch.__version__)
# '1.7.0'
All the code in this book can be executed in Google Colab – https://colab.research.google.com/. Python
and PyTorch are available by default in Google Colab. We highly encourage you to execute all
code on Colab – which includes access to the GPU too, for free! Thanks to Google for providing
such an excellent resource!
So, we have successfully installed Python and PyTorch. We will now perform
some basic tensor operations in Python to help you get the hang of it.
PyTorch tensors
Tensors are the fundamental data types of PyTorch. A tensor is a multi-dimensional
matrix similar to NumPy's ndarrays:
A scalar can be represented as a zero-dimensional tensor.
A vector can be represented as a one-dimensional tensor.
A two-dimensional matrix can be represented as a two-dimensional tensor.
A multi-dimensional matrix can be represented as a multi-dimensional tensor.
Pictorially, the tensors look as follows:

--- Strana 81 ---
For instance, we can consider a color image as a three-dimensional tensor of pixel
values, since a color image consists of height x width x 3 pixels – where the three
channels correspond to the RGB channels. Similarly, a grayscale image can be
considered a two-dimensional tensor as it consists of height x width pixels.
By the end of this section, we will learn why tensors are useful and how to
initialize them, as well as perform various operations on top of tensors. This will
serve as a base for when we study leveraging tensors to build a neural network
model in the following section.
Initializing a tensor
Tensors are useful in multiple ways. Apart from using them as base data structures
for images, one more prominent use for them is when tensors are leveraged to
initialize the weights connecting different layers of a neural network.
In this section, we will practice the different ways of initializing a tensor object:
The following code is available as Initializing_a_tensor.ipynb in the Chapter02 folder of this book's
GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1. Import PyTorch and initialize a tensor by calling torch.tensor on a list:
import torch
x = torch.tensor([[1,2]])
y = torch.tensor([[1],[2]])
2. Next, access the tensor object's shape and data type:
print(x.shape)
# torch.Size([1,2]) # one entity of two items
print(y.shape)
# torch.Size([2,1]) # two entities of one item each 
print(x.dtype)
# torch.int64
The data type of all elements within a tensor is the same. That means if a
tensor contains data of different data types (such as a Boolean, an integer,
and a float), the entire tensor is coerced to the most generic data type:
x = torch.tensor([False, 1, 2.0])
print(x)
# tensor([0., 1., 2.])
As you can see in the output of the preceding code, False, which was a
Boolean, and 1, which was an integer, were converted into floating-point

--- Strana 82 ---
numbers. 
Alternatively, similar to NumPy, we can initialize tensor objects using
built-in functions. Note that the parallels that we drew between tensors and
weights of a neural network come to light now – where we are initializing
tensors so that they represent the weight initialization of a neural network.
3. Generate a tensor object that has three rows and four columns filled with
zeros:
torch.zeros((3, 4))
4. Generate a tensor object that has three rows and four columns filled with
ones:
torch.ones((3, 4))
5. Generate three rows and four columns of values between 0 and 10 (including
the low value but not including the high value):
torch.randint(low=0, high=10, size=(3,4))
6. Generate random numbers between 0 and 1 with three rows and four columns:
torch.rand(3, 4)
7. Generate numbers that follow a normal distribution with three rows and four
columns:
torch.randn((3,4))
8. Finally, we can directly convert a NumPy array into a Torch tensor using
torch.tensor(<numpy-array>):
x = np.array([[10,20,30],[2,3,4]])
y = torch.tensor(x)
print(type(x), type(y))
# <class 'numpy.ndarray'> <class 'torch.Tensor'>
Now that we have learned about initializing tensor objects, we will learn about
performing various matrix operations on top of them in the next section.
Operations on tensors

--- Strana 83 ---
Similar to NumPy, you can perform various basic operations on tensor objects.
Parallels to neural network operations are the matrix multiplication of input with
weights, the addition of bias terms, and reshaping input or weight values when
required. Each of these and additional operations are done as follows:
The following code is available as Operations_on_tensors.ipynb in the Chapter02 folder of this book's GitHu
repository.
Multiplication of all the elements present in x by 10 can be performed using
the following code:
import torch
x = torch.tensor([[1,2,3,4], [5,6,7,8]]) 
print(x * 10)
# tensor([[10, 20, 30, 40],
#        [50, 60, 70, 80]])
Adding 10 to the elements in x and storing the resulting tensor in y can be
performed using the following code:
x = torch.tensor([[1,2,3,4], [5,6,7,8]]) 
y = x.add(10)
print(y)
# tensor([[11, 12, 13, 14],
#         [15, 16, 17, 18]])
Reshaping a tensor can be performed using the following code:
y = torch.tensor([2, 3, 1, 0]) 
# y.shape == (4)
y = y.view(4,1)                
# y.shape == (4, 1)
Another way to reshape a tensor is by using the squeeze method, where we
provide the axis index that we want to remove. Note that this is applicable
only when the axis we want to remove has only one item in that dimension:
x = torch.randn(10,1,10)
z1 = torch.squeeze(x, 1) # similar to np.squeeze()
# The same operation can be directly performed on
# x by calling squeeze and the dimension to squeeze out
z2 = x.squeeze(1)
assert torch.all(z1 == z2) 
# all the elements in both tensors are equal
print('Squeeze:\n', x.shape, z1.shape)
# Squeeze: torch.Size([10, 1, 10]) torch.Size([10, 10])
The opposite of squeeze is unsqueeze, which means we add a dimension to the
matrix, which can be performed using the following code:
x = torch.randn(10,10)
print(x.shape)
# torch.size(10,10)

--- Strana 84 ---
z1 = x.unsqueeze(0)
print(z1.shape)
# torch.size(1,10,10)
# The same can be achieved using [None] indexing
# Adding None will auto create a fake dim 
# at the specified axis
x = torch.randn(10,10)
z2, z3, z4 = x[None], x[:,None], x[:,:,None]
print(z2.shape, z3.shape, z4.shape)
# torch.Size([1, 10, 10]) 
# torch.Size([10, 1, 10]) 
# torch.Size([10, 10, 1])
Using None for indexing is a fancy way of unsqueezing, as shown, and will be used often in this
book for creating fake channel/batch dimensions.
Matrix multiplication of two different tensors can be performed using the
following code:
x = torch.tensor([[1,2,3,4], [5,6,7,8]])
print(torch.matmul(x, y))
# tensor([[11],
#         [35]])
Alternatively, matrix multiplication can also be performed by using the @
operator:
print(x@y)
# tensor([[11],
#  [35]]) 
Similar to concatenate in NumPy, we can perform concatenation of tensors
using the cat method:
import torch
x = torch.randn(10,10,10)
z = torch.cat([x,x], axis=0) # np.concatenate()
print('Cat axis 0:', x.shape, z.shape)
# Cat axis 0:  torch.Size([10, 10, 10]) 
# torch.Size([20, 10, 10])
z = torch.cat([x,x], axis=1) # np.concatenate()
print('Cat axis 1:', x.shape, z.shape)
# Cat axis 1: torch.Size([10, 10, 10]) 
# torch.Size([10, 20, 10])
Extraction of the maximum value in a tensor can be performed using the
following code:
x = torch.arange(25).reshape(5,5)
print('Max:', x.shape, x.max()) 
# Max:  torch.Size([5, 5]) tensor(24)

--- Strana 85 ---
We can extract the maximum value along with the row index where the
maximum value is present:
x.max(dim=0)
# torch.return_types.max(values=tensor([20, 21, 22, 23, 24]), 
# indices=tensor([4, 4, 4, 4, 4]))
Note that, in the preceding output, we are fetching the maximum values
across dimension 0, which is the rows of the tensor. Hence, the maximum
values across all rows are the values present in the 4th index and hence the
indices output is all fours too. Furthermore, .max returns both the maximum
values and the location (argmax) of the maximum values.
Similarly, the output when fetching the maximum value across columns is
as follows:
m, argm = x.max(dim=1) 
print('Max in axis 1:\n', m, argm) 
# Max in axis 1: tensor([ 4, 9, 14, 19, 24]) 
# tensor([4, 4, 4, 4, 4])
The min operation is exactly the same as max but returns the minimum and
arg-minimum where applicable.
Permute the dimensions of a tensor object:
x = torch.randn(10,20,30)
z = x.permute(2,0,1) # np.permute()
print('Permute dimensions:', x.shape, z.shape)
# Permute dimensions:  torch.Size([10, 20, 30]) 
# torch.Size([30, 10, 20])
Note that the shape of the tensor changes when we perform permute on top of the
original tensor.
Never reshape (that is, use tensor.view on) a tensor to swap the dimensions. Even though Torch
will not throw an error, this is wrong and will create unforeseen results during training. If you
need to swap dimensions, always use permute.
Since it is difficult to cover all the available operations in this book, it is important
to know that you can do almost all NumPy operations in PyTorch with almost the
same syntax as NumPy. Standard mathematical operations, such as abs, add, argsort,
ceil, floor, sin, cos, tan, cumsum, cumprod, diag, eig, exp, log, log2, log10, mean, median, mode,
resize, round, sigmoid, softmax, square, sqrt, svd, and transpose, to name a few, can be
directly called on any tensor with or without axes where applicable. You can

--- Strana 86 ---
always run dir(torch.Tensor) to see all the methods possible for a Torch tensor
and help(torch.Tensor.<method>) to go through the official help and documentation for
that method.
Next, we will learn about leveraging tensors to perform gradient calculations on
top of data – which is a key aspect of performing back-propagation in neural
networks.
Auto gradients of tensor objects
As we saw in the previous chapter, differentiation and calculating gradients play a
critical role in updating the weights of a neural network. PyTorch's tensor objects
come with built-in functionality to calculate gradients.
In this section, we will understand how to calculate the gradients of a tensor object
using PyTorch: 
The following code is available as Auto_gradient_of_tensors.ipynb in the Chapter02 folder of this
book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1. Define a tensor object and also specify that it requires a gradient to be
calculated:
import torch
x = torch.tensor([[2., -1.], [1., 1.]], requires_grad=True)
print(x)
In the preceding code, the requires_grad parameter specifies that the gradient
is to be calculated for the tensor object.
2. Next, define the way to calculate the output, which in this specific case is the
sum of the squares of all inputs:
This is represented in code using the following line:
out = x.pow(2).sum()

--- Strana 87 ---
We know that the gradient of the preceding function is 2*x. Let's validate
this using the built-in functions provided by PyTorch.
3. The gradient of a value can be calculated by calling the backward() method to
the value. In our case, we calculate the gradient – change in out (output) for a
small change in x (input) – as follows:
out.backward()
4. We are now in a position to obtain the gradient of out with respect to x, as
follows:
x.grad
This results in the following output:
Notice that the gradients obtained previously match with the intuitive gradient
values (which are two times that of the value of x).
As an exercise, try recreating the scenario in Chain rule.ipynb in Chapter 1, Artificial Neural
Network Fundamentals, with PyTorch. Compute the gradients after making a forward pass and
make a single update. Verify that the updated weights match what we calculated in the notebook.
By now, we have learned about initializing, manipulating, and calculating
gradients on top of a tensor object – which together constitute the fundamental
building blocks of a neural network. Except for calculating auto gradients,
initializing and manipulating data can also be performed using NumPy arrays. This
calls for us to understand the reason why you should use tensor objects over
NumPy arrays when building a neural network – which we will go through in the
next section.
Advantages of PyTorch's tensors over NumPy's
ndarrays
In the previous chapter, we saw that when calculating the optimal weight values,
we vary each weight by a small amount and understand its impact on reducing the
overall loss value. Note that the loss calculation based on the weight update of one

--- Strana 88 ---
weight does not impact the loss calculation of the weight update of other weights
in the same iteration. Thus, this process can be optimized if each weight update is
being made by a different core in parallel instead of updating weights sequentially.
A GPU comes in handy in this scenario as it consists of thousands of cores when
compared to a CPU (which, in general, could have <=64 cores).
A Torch tensor object is optimized to work with a GPU compared to NumPy. To
understand this further, let's perform a small experiment, where we perform the
operation of matrix multiplication using NumPy arrays in one scenario and tensor
objects in another and compare the time taken to perform matrix multiplication in
both scenarios:
The following code is available as Numpy_Vs_Torch_object_computation_speed_comparison.ipynb in
the Chapter02 folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1. Generate two different torch objects:
import torch
x = torch.rand(1, 6400)
y = torch.rand(6400, 5000)
2. Define the device to which we will store the tensor objects we created in step
1:
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
Note that if you don't have a GPU device, the device will be cpu (furthermore, you would not
notice the drastic difference in time taken to execute when using a CPU).
3. Register the tensor objects that were created in step 1 with the device.
Registering tensor objects means storing information in a device:
x, y = x.to(device), y.to(device)
4. Perform matrix multiplication of the Torch objects and also, time it so that we
can compare the speed in a scenario where matrix multiplication is performed
on NumPy arrays:
%timeit z=(x@y)
# It takes 0.515 milli seconds on an average to 
# perform matrix multiplication
5. Perform matrix multiplication of the same tensors on cpu:
x, y = x.cpu(), y.cpu()
%timeit z=(x@y)
# It takes 9 milli seconds on an average to 
# perform matrix multiplication

--- Strana 89 ---
6. Perform the same matrix multiplication, this time on NumPy arrays:
import numpy as np
x = np.random.random((1, 6400))
y = np.random.random((6400, 5000))
%timeit z = np.matmul(x,y)
# It takes 19 milli seconds on an average to 
# perform matrix multiplication
You will notice that the matrix multiplication performed on Torch objects on a
GPU is ~18X faster than Torch objects on a CPU, and ~40X faster than the matrix
multiplication performed on NumPy arrays. In general, matmul with Torch tensors
on a CPU is still faster than NumPy. Note that you would notice this kind of speed
up only if you have a GPU device. If you are working on a CPU device, you would
not notice the dramatic increase in speed. This is why if you do not own a GPU,
we recommend using Google Colab notebooks, as the service provides free GPUs.
Now that we have learned how tensor objects are leveraged across the various
individual components/operations of a neural network and how using the GPU can
speed up computation, in the next section, we will learn about putting this all
together to build a neural network using PyTorch.
Building a neural network using
PyTorch
In the previous chapter, we learned about building a neural network from scratch,
where the components of a neural network are as follows:
The number of hidden layers
The number of units in a hidden layer
Activation functions performed at the various layers
The loss function that we try to optimize for
The learning rate associated with the neural network
The batch size of data leveraged to build the neural network
The number of epochs of forward and back-propagation
However, for all of these, we built them from scratch using NumPy arrays in
Python. In this section, we will learn about implementing all of these using
PyTorch on a toy dataset. Note that we will leverage our learning so far regarding
initializing tensor objects, performing various operations on top of them, and

--- Strana 90 ---
calculating the gradient values to update weights when building a neural network
using PyTorch.
Note that, in this chapter, to gain the intuition of performing various operations, we will build a
neural network on a toy dataset. Starting with the next chapter, we will deal with solving more
realistic problems and datasets.
The toy problem we'll solve to understand the implementation of neural networks
using PyTorch is a plain addition of two numbers, where we initialize the dataset
as follows:
The following code is available as Building_a_neural_network_using_PyTorch_on_a_toy_dataset.ipynb in
the Chapter02 folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1. Define the input (x) and output (y) values:
import torch
x = [[1,2],[3,4],[5,6],[7,8]]
y = [[3],[7],[11],[15]]
Note that in the preceding input and output variable initialization, the input
and output are a list of lists where the sum of values in the input list is the
values in the output list.
2. Convert the input lists into tensor objects:
X = torch.tensor(x).float()
Y = torch.tensor(y).float()
Note that in the preceding code, we have converted the tensor objects into
floating-point objects. It is good practice to have tensor objects as floats or
long ints, as they will be multiplied by decimal values (weights) anyway.
Furthermore, we register the input (X) and output (Y) data points to the
device – cuda if you have a GPU and cpu if you don't have a GPU:
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
X = X.to(device)
Y = Y.to(device)
3. Define the neural network architecture:
The torch.nn module contains functions that help in building neural
network models:
import torch.nn as nn

--- Strana 91 ---
We will create a class (MyNeuralNet) that can compose our neural network
architecture. It is mandatory to inherit from nn.Module when creating a
model architecture as it is the base class for all neural network modules:
class MyNeuralNet(nn.Module):
Within the class, we initialize all the components of a neural network
using the __init__ method. We should call super().__init__() to ensure that
the class inherits nn.Module:
def __init__(self):
    super().__init__()
With the preceding code, by specifying super().__init__(), we are now
able to take advantage of all the pre-built functionalities that have been
written for nn.Module. The components that are going to be initialized in
the init method will be used across different methods in
the MyNeuralNet class.
Define the layers in the neural network:
    self.input_to_hidden_layer = nn.Linear(2,8)
    self.hidden_layer_activation = nn.ReLU()
    self.hidden_to_output_layer = nn.Linear(8,1)
In the preceding lines of code, we specified all the layers of neural
network – a linear layer (self.input_to_hidden_layer), followed by ReLU
activation (self.hidden_layer_activation), and finally, a linear layer
(self.hidden_to_output_layer). Note that, for now, the choice of the number
of layers and activation is arbitrary. We'll learn about the impact of the
number of units in layers and layer activations in more detail in the next
chapter.
Furthermore, let's understand what the functions in the preceding code are
doing by printing the output of the nn.Linear method:
# NOTE - This line of code is not a part of model building, 
# this is used only for illustration of Linear method
print(nn.Linear(2, 7))
Linear(in_features=2, out_features=7, bias=True)
In the preceding code, the linear method takes two values as input and
outputs seven values, and also has a bias parameter associated with it.
Furthermore, nn.ReLU() invokes the ReLU activation, which can then be used
in other methods.

--- Strana 92 ---
Some of the other commonly used activation functions are as follows:  
Sigmoid
Softmax
Tanh
Now that we have defined the components of a neural network, let's
connect the components together while defining the forward propagation of
the network:
    def forward(self, x):
        x = self.input_to_hidden_layer(x)
        x = self.hidden_layer_activation(x)
        x = self.hidden_to_output_layer(x)
        return x
It is mandatory to use forward as the function name since PyTorch has reserved this function as
the method for performing forward propagation. Using any other name in its place will raise an
error.
By now, we have built the model architecture; let's inspect the randomly
initialized weight values in the next step.
4. You can access the initial weights of each of the components by performing
the following steps:  
Create an instance of the MyNeuralNet class object that we defined earlier
and register it to device:
mynet = MyNeuralNet().to(device)
The weights and bias of each layer can be accessed by specifying the
following:
# NOTE - This line of code is not a part of model building, 
# this is used only for illustration of 
# how to obtain parameters of a given layer
mynet.input_to_hidden_layer.weight
The output of the preceding code is as follows:

--- Strana 93 ---
The values in your output will vary from the preceding, as the neural network is initialized with
random values every time. If you wanted them to remain the same in multiple iterations of
executing the same code, you would need to specify the seed using the manual_seed method in
Torch as torch.manual_seed(0) just before creating the instance of the class object
All the parameters of a neural network can be obtained by using the
following code:
# NOTE - This line of code is not a part of model building, 
# this is used only for illustration of 
# how to obtain parameters of all layers in a model
mynet.parameters()
The preceding code returns a generator object.
Finally, the parameters are obtained by looping through the generator, as
follows:
# NOTE - This line of code is not a part of model building, 
# this is used only for illustration of how to 
# obtain parameters of all layers in a model 
# by looping through the generator object
for par in mynet.parameters():
    print(par)
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 94 ---
The model has registered these tensors as special objects that are necessary for keeping track of
forward and backward propagation. When defining any nn layers in the __init__ method, it will
automatically create corresponding tensors and simultaneously register them. You can also
manually register these parameters using the nn.Parameter(<tensor>) function. Hence, the following
code is equivalent to the neural network class that we defined previously.
An alternative way of defining the model using the nn.Parameter function is
as follows:
# for illustration only
class MyNeuralNet(nn.Module):
     def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
        self.input_to_hidden_layer = nn.Parameter(\
                                          torch.rand(2,8))
        self.hidden_layer_activation = nn.ReLU()
        self.hidden_to_output_layer = nn.Parameter(\
                                          torch.rand(8,1))
     def forward(self, x):
        x = x @ self.input_to_hidden_layer
        x = self.hidden_layer_activation(x)
        x = x @ self.hidden_to_output_layer
        return x
5. Define the loss function that we optimize for. Given that we are predicting for
a continuous output, we'll optimize for mean squared error:
loss_func = nn.MSELoss()
The other prominent loss functions are as follows:  

--- Strana 95 ---
CrossEntropyLoss (for multinomial classification)
BCELoss (binary cross-entropy loss for binary classification)
The loss value of a neural network can be calculated by passing the input
values through the neuralnet object and then calculating MSELoss for the
given inputs:
_Y = mynet(X)
loss_value = loss_func(_Y,Y)
print(loss_value)
# tensor(91.5550, grad_fn=<MseLossBackward>)
# Note that loss value can differ in your instance 
# due to a different random weight initialization
In the preceding code, mynet(X) calculates the output values when the input
is passed through the neural network. Furthermore, the loss_func function
calculates the MSELoss value corresponding to the prediction of the neural
network (_Y) and the actual values (Y).
As a convention, in this book, we will use _<variable> to associate prediction corresponding to
the ground truth <variable>. Above this <variable> is Y.
Also note that when computing the loss, we always send the prediction first and then the
ground truth. This is a PyTorch convention.
Now that we have defined the loss function, we will define the optimizer
that tries to reduce the loss value. The input to the optimizer will be the
parameters (weights and biases) corresponding to the neural network and
the learning rate when updating the weights.
For this instance, we will consider the stochastic gradient descent (more on
different optimizers and the impact of the learning rate in the next chapter).
6. Import the SGD method from the torch.optim module and then pass the neural
network object (mynet) and learning rate (lr) as parameters to the SGD method:
from torch.optim import SGD
opt = SGD(mynet.parameters(), lr = 0.001)
7. Perform all the steps to be done in an epoch together:
Calculate the loss value corresponding to the given input and output.
Calculate the gradient corresponding to each parameter.
Update the weights based on the learning rate and gradient of each
parameter.

--- Strana 96 ---
Once the weights are updated, ensure that the gradients that have been
calculated in the previous step are flushed before calculating the gradients
in the next epoch:
# NOTE - This line of code is not a part of model building, 
# this is used only for illustration of how we perform 
opt.zero_grad() # flush the previous epoch's gradients
loss_value = loss_func(mynet(X),Y) # compute loss
loss_value.backward() # perform back-propagation
opt.step() # update the weights according to the gradients computed
Repeat the preceding steps as many times as the number of epochs using a
for loop. In the following example, we are performing the weight update
process for a total of 50 epochs. Furthermore, we are storing the loss value
in each epoch in the list – loss_history:
loss_history = []
for _ in range(50):
    opt.zero_grad()
    loss_value = loss_func(mynet(X),Y)
    loss_value.backward()
    opt.step()
    loss_history.append(loss_value)
Let's plot the variation in loss over increasing epochs (as we saw in the
previous chapter, we update weights in such a way that the overall loss
value decreases with increasing epochs):
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
plt.plot(loss_history)
plt.title('Loss variation over increasing epochs')
plt.xlabel('epochs')
plt.ylabel('loss value')
The preceding code results in the following plot:

--- Strana 97 ---
Note that, as expected, the loss value decreases over increasing epochs.
So far, in this section, we have updated the weights of a neural network by
calculating the loss based on all the data points provided in the input dataset. In the
next section, we will learn about the advantage of using only a sample of input data
points per weight update.
Dataset, DataLoader, and batch size
One hyperparameter in a neural network that we have not considered yet is the
batch size. Batch size refers to the number of data points considered to calculate
the loss value or update weights.
This hyperparameter especially comes in handy in scenarios where there are
millions of data points, and using all of them for one instance of weight update is
not optimal, as memory is not available to hold so much information. In addition, a
sample can be representative enough of the data. Batch size helps in fetching
multiple samples of data that are representative enough, but not necessarily 100%
representative of the total data.
In this section, we will come up with a way to specify the batch size to be
considered when calculating the gradient of weights, to update weights, which is in

--- Strana 98 ---
turn used to calculate the updated loss value:
The following code is available as Specifying_batch_size_while_training_a_model.ipynb in the Chapter02
folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1. Import the methods that help in loading data and dealing with datasets:
from torch.utils.data import Dataset, DataLoader
import torch
import torch.nn as nn
2. Import the data, convert the data into floating-point numbers, and register
them to a device:
Provide the data points to work on:
x = [[1,2],[3,4],[5,6],[7,8]]
y = [[3],[7],[11],[15]]
Convert the data into floating-point numbers:
X = torch.tensor(x).float()
Y = torch.tensor(y).float()
Register data to the device – given that we are working on a GPU, we
specify that the device is 'cuda'. If you are working on a CPU, specify the
device as 'cpu':
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
X = X.to(device)
Y = Y.to(device)
3. Instantiate a class of the dataset – MyDataset:
class MyDataset(Dataset):
Within the MyDataset class, we store the information to fetch one data point at
a time so that a batch of data points can be bundled together (using
DataLoader) and be sent through one forward and one back-propagation in
order to update the weights:
Define an __init__ method that takes input and output pairs and converts
them into Torch float objects:
    def __init__(self,x,y):
        self.x = torch.tensor(x).float()
        self.y = torch.tensor(y).float()

--- Strana 99 ---
Specify the length (__len__) of the input dataset:
    def __len__(self):
        return len(self.x)
Finally, the __getitem__ method is used to fetch a specific row:
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        return self.x[ix], self.y[ix]
In the preceding code, ix refers to the index of the row that is to be fetched
from the dataset.
4. Create an instance of the defined class:
ds = MyDataset(X, Y)
5. Pass the dataset instance defined previously through DataLoader to fetch
the batch_size number of data points from the original input and output tensor
objects:
dl = DataLoader(ds, batch_size=2, shuffle=True)
In addition, in the preceding code, we also specify that we fetch a random
sample (by mentioning that shuffle=True) of two data points (by mentioning
batch_size=2) from the original input dataset (ds).
To fetch the batches from dl, we loop through it:
# NOTE - This line of code is not a part of model building, 
# this is used only for illustration of 
# how to print the input and output batches of data
for x,y in dl:
    print(x,y)
This results in the following output:

--- Strana 100 ---
Note that the preceding code resulted in two sets of input-output pairs as
there were a total of four data points in the original dataset, while the batch
size that was specified was 2.
6. Now, we define the neural network class as we defined in the previous
section:
class MyNeuralNet(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
        self.input_to_hidden_layer = nn.Linear(2,8)
        self.hidden_layer_activation = nn.ReLU()
        self.hidden_to_output_layer = nn.Linear(8,1)
    def forward(self, x):
        x = self.input_to_hidden_layer(x)
        x = self.hidden_layer_activation(x)
        x = self.hidden_to_output_layer(x)
        return x
7. Next, we define the model object (mynet), loss function (loss_func), and
optimizer (opt) too, as defined in the previous section:
mynet = MyNeuralNet().to(device)
loss_func = nn.MSELoss()
from torch.optim import SGD
opt = SGD(mynet.parameters(), lr = 0.001)
8. Finally, loop through the batches of data points to minimize the loss value,
just like we did in step 6 in the previous section:
import time
loss_history = []
start = time.time()
for _ in range(50):
    for data in dl:
        x, y = data
        opt.zero_grad()
        loss_value = loss_func(mynet(x),y)
        loss_value.backward()
        opt.step()
        loss_history.append(loss_value)
end = time.time()
print(end - start)
Note that while the preceding code seems very similar to the code that we went
through in the previous section, we are performing 2X the number of weight
updates per epoch when compared to the number of times the weights were
updated in the previous section, as the batch size in this section is 2 whereas the
batch size was 4 (the total number of data points) in the previous section.
Now that we have trained a model, in the next section, we will learn about
predicting on a new set of data points.

--- Strana 101 ---
Predicting on new data points
In the previous section, we learned how to fit a model on known data points. In this
section, we will learn how to leverage the forward method defined in the
trained mynet model from the previous section to predict on unseen data points. We
will continue on from the code built in the previous section:
1. Create the data points that we want to test our model on:
val_x = [[10,11]]
Note that the new dataset (val_x) will also be a list of lists, as the input
dataset was a list of lists.
2. Convert the new data points into a tensor float object and register to the
device:
val_x = torch.tensor(val_x).float().to(device)
3. Pass the tensor object through the trained neural network – mynet – as if it were
a Python function. This is the same as performing a forward propagation
through the model that was built:
mynet(val_x)
# 20.99
The preceding code returns the predicted output values associated with the input
data points.
By now, we have been able to train our neural network to map an input with output
where we updated weight values by performing back-propagation to minimize the
loss value (which is calculated using a pre-defined loss function). 
In the next section, we will learn about building our own custom loss function
instead of using a pre-defined loss function.
Implementing a custom loss function
In certain cases, we might have to implement a loss function that is customized to
the problem we are solving – especially in complex use cases involving object
detection/generative adversial networks (GANs). PyTorch provides the

--- Strana 102 ---
functionalities for us to build a custom loss function by writing a function of our
own.
In this section, we will implement a custom loss function that does the same job as
that of the MSELoss function that comes pre-built within nn.Module:
The following code is available as Implementing_custom_loss_function.ipynb in the Chapter02 folder of
this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1. Import the data, build the dataset and DataLoader, and define a neural network,
as done in the previous section:
x = [[1,2],[3,4],[5,6],[7,8]]
y = [[3],[7],[11],[15]]
import torch
X = torch.tensor(x).float()
Y = torch.tensor(y).float()
import torch.nn as nn
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
X = X.to(device)
Y = Y.to(device) 
import torch.nn as nn
from torch.utils.data import Dataset, DataLoader
class MyDataset(Dataset):
    def __init__(self,x,y):
        self.x = torch.tensor(x).float()
        self.y = torch.tensor(y).float()
    def __len__(self):
        return len(self.x)
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        return self.x[ix], self.y[ix]
ds = MyDataset(X, Y)
dl = DataLoader(ds, batch_size=2, shuffle=True)
class MyNeuralNet(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
        self.input_to_hidden_layer = nn.Linear(2,8)
        self.hidden_layer_activation = nn.ReLU()
        self.hidden_to_output_layer = nn.Linear(8,1)
    def forward(self, x):
        x = self.input_to_hidden_layer(x)
        x = self.hidden_layer_activation(x)
        x = self.hidden_to_output_layer(x)
        return x
mynet = MyNeuralNet().to(device)
2. Define the custom loss function by taking two tensor objects as input, take
their difference, and square them up and return the mean value of the squared
difference between the two:
def my_mean_squared_error(_y, y):
    loss = (_y-y)**2
    loss = loss.mean()
    return loss

--- Strana 103 ---
3. For the same input and output combination that we had in the previous
section, nn.MSELoss is used in fetching the mean squared error loss, as follows:
loss_func = nn.MSELoss()
loss_value = loss_func(mynet(X),Y)
print(loss_value)
# 92.7534
4. Similarly, the output of the loss value when we use the function that we
defined in step 2 is as follows:
my_mean_squared_error(mynet(X),Y)
# 92.7534
Notice that the results match. We have used the built-in MSELoss function and
compared its result with the custom function that we built.
We can define a custom function of our choice, depending on the problem we are
solving.
In the sections so far, we have learned about calculating the output at the last layer.
The intermediate layer values have been a black box so far. In the next section, we
will learn about fetching the intermediate layer values of a neural network.
Fetching the values of intermediate layers
In certain scenarios, it is helpful to fetch the intermediate layer values of the neural
network (more on this when we discuss the style transfer and transfer learning use
cases in later chapters).
PyTorch provides the functionality to fetch the intermediate values of the neural
network in two ways:
The following code is available as Fetching_values_of_intermediate_layers.ipynb in the Chapter02
folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
One way is by directly calling layers as if they are functions. This can be
done as follows:
input_to_hidden = mynet.input_to_hidden_layer(X)
hidden_activation = mynet.hidden_layer_activation(\
                                        input_to_hidden)
print(hidden_activation)

--- Strana 104 ---
Note that we had to call the input_to_hidden_layer activation prior to
calling hidden_layer_activation as the output of input_to_hidden_layer is the
input to the hidden_layer_activation layer.
The other way is by specifying the layers that we want to look at in
the forward method.
Let's look at the hidden layer values after activation for the model we
have been working on in this chapter.
While all of the following code remains the same as what we saw in the
previous section, we have ensured that the forward method returns not
only the output but also the hidden layer values post-activation (hidden2):
class neuralnet(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
        self.input_to_hidden_layer = nn.Linear(2,8)
        self.hidden_layer_activation = nn.ReLU()
        self.hidden_to_output_layer = nn.Linear(8,1)
    def forward(self, x):
        hidden1 = self.input_to_hidden_layer(x)
        hidden2 = self.hidden_layer_activation(hidden1)
        output = self.hidden_to_output_layer(hidden2)
        return output, hidden2
We can now access the hidden layer values by specifying the following:
mynet = neuralnet().to(device)
mynet(X)[1]
Note that the 0th index output of mynet is as we have defined – the final output of the
forward propagation on the network – while the first index output is the hidden
layer value post-activation.
So far, we have learned about implementing a neural network using the class of
neural networks where we manually built each layer. However, unless we are
building a complicated network, the steps to build a neural network architecture
are straightforward, where we specify the layers and the sequence with which
layers are to be stacked. In the next section, we will learn about a simpler way of
defining neural network architecture.

--- Strana 105 ---
Using a sequential method to build a
neural network
So far, we have built a neural network by defining a class where we define the
layers and how the layers are connected with each other. In this section, we will
learn about a simplified way of defining the neural network architecture using the
Sequential class. We will perform the same steps as we have done in the previous
sections, except that the class that was used to define the neural network
architecture manually will be substituted with a Sequential class for creating a neural
network architecture.
Let's code up the network for the same toy data that we have worked on in this
chapter:
The following code is available as Sequential_method_to_build_a_neural_network.ipynb in the Chapter02
folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1. Define the toy dataset:
x = [[1,2],[3,4],[5,6],[7,8]]
y = [[3],[7],[11],[15]]
2. Import the relevant packages and define the device we will work on:
import torch
import torch.nn as nn
import numpy as np
from torch.utils.data import Dataset, DataLoader
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
3. Now, we define the dataset class (MyDataset):
class MyDataset(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, x, y):
        self.x = torch.tensor(x).float().to(device)
        self.y = torch.tensor(y).float().to(device)
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        return self.x[ix], self.y[ix]
    def __len__(self): 
        return len(self.x)
4. Define the dataset (ds) and dataloader (dl) object:
ds = MyDataset(x, y)
dl = DataLoader(ds, batch_size=2, shuffle=True)

--- Strana 106 ---
5. Define the model architecture using the Sequential method available in the nn
package:
model = nn.Sequential(
            nn.Linear(2, 8),
            nn.ReLU(),
            nn.Linear(8, 1)
        ).to(device)
Note that, in the preceding code, we defined the same architecture of the
network as we defined in previous sections, but defined differently. nn.Linear
accepts two-dimensional input and gives an eight-dimensional output for
each data point. Furthermore, nn.ReLU performs ReLU activation on top of
the eight-dimensional output and finally, the eight-dimensional input gives
a one-dimensional output (which in our case is the output of the addition of
the two inputs) using the final nn.Linear layer.
6. Print a summary of the model we defined in step 5:
Install and import the package that enables us to print the model summary:
!pip install torch_summary
from torchsummary import summary
Print a summary of the model, which expects the name of the model and
also the input size of the model:
summary(model, torch.zeros(1,2))
The preceding code gives the following output:

--- Strana 107 ---
Note that the output shape of the first layer is (-1, 8), where -1 represents
that there can be as many data points as the batch size, and 8 represents that

--- Strana 108 ---
for each data point, we have an eight-dimensional output resulting in an
output of the shape batch size x 8. The interpretation for the next two layers
is similar.
7. Next, we define the loss function (loss_func) and optimizer (opt) and train the
model, just like we did in the previous section. Note that, in this case, we need
not define a model object; a network is not defined within a class in this
scenario:
loss_func = nn.MSELoss()
from torch.optim import SGD
opt = SGD(model.parameters(), lr = 0.001)
import time
loss_history = []
start = time.time()
for _ in range(50):
    for ix, iy in dl:
        opt.zero_grad()
        loss_value = loss_func(model(ix),iy)
        loss_value.backward()
        opt.step()
        loss_history.append(loss_value)
end = time.time()
print(end - start)
8. Now that we have trained the model, we can predict values on a validation
dataset that we define now:
Define the validation dataset:
val = [[8,9],[10,11],[1.5,2.5]]
Predict the output of passing the validation list through the model (note
that the expected value is the summation of the two inputs for each list
within the list of lists). As defined in the dataset class, we first convert the
list of lists into a float after converting them into a tensor object and
registering them to the device:
model(torch.tensor(val).float().to(device))
# tensor([[16.9051], [20.8352], [ 4.0773]], 
# device='cuda:0', grad_fn=<AddmmBackward>)
Note that the output of the preceding code, as shown in the comment, is close to
what is expected (which is the summation of the input values).
Now that we have learned about leveraging the sequential method to define and
train a model, in the next section, we will learn about saving and loading a model
to make an inference.

--- Strana 109 ---
Saving and loading a PyTorch model
One of the important aspects of working on neural network models is to save and
load back a model after training. Think of a scenario where you have to make
inferences from an already-trained model. You would load the trained model
instead of training it again.
The following code is available as save_and_load_pytorch_model.ipynb in the Chapter02 folder of this
book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
Before going through the relevant commands to do that, taking the preceding
example as our case, let's understand what all the important components that
completely define a neural network are. We need the following:
A unique name (key) for each tensor (parameter)
The logic to connect every tensor in the network with one or the other
The values (weight/bias values) of each tensor
While the first point is taken care of during the __init__ phase of a definition, the
second point is taken care of during the forward method definition. By default, the
values in a tensor are randomly initialized during the __init__ phase. But what we
want is to load a specific set of weights (or values) that were learned when training
a model and associate each value with a specific name. This is what you obtain by
calling a special method, described in the following sections.
state dict
The model.state_dict() command is at the root of understanding how saving and
loading PyTorch models works. The dictionary in model.state_dict() corresponds to
the parameter names (keys) and the values (weight and bias values) corresponding
to the model. state refers to the current snapshot of the model (where the snapshot
is the set of values at each tensor).
It returns a dictionary (OrderedDict) of keys and values:

--- Strana 110 ---
The keys are the names of the model's layers and the values correspond to the
weights of these layers. 

--- Strana 111 ---
Saving
Running torch.save(model.state_dict(), 'mymodel.pth') will save this model in a Python
serialized format on the disk with the name mymodel.pth. A good practice is to
transfer the model to the CPU before calling torch.save as this will save tensors as
CPU tensors and not as CUDA tensors. This will help in loading the model onto
any machine, whether it contains CUDA capabilities or not.
We save the model using the following code:
torch.save(model.to('cpu').state_dict(), 'mymodel.pth')
Now that we understand saving a model, in the next section, we will learn about
loading the model.
Loading
Loading a model would require us to initialize the model with random weights first
and then load the weights from state_dict:
1. Create an empty model with the same command that was used in the first
place when training:
model = nn.Sequential(
            nn.Linear(2, 8),
            nn.ReLU(),
            nn.Linear(8, 1)
        ).to(device)
2. Load the model from disk and unserialize it to create an orderedDict value:
state_dict = torch.load('mymodel.pth')
3. Load state_dict onto model, register to device, and make a prediction:
model.load_state_dict(state_dict)
# <All keys matched successfully>
model.to(device)
model(torch.tensor(val).float().to(device))
If all the weight names are present in the model, then you would get a message
saying all the keys were matched. This implies we are able to load our model from
disk, for all purposes, on any machine in the world.

--- Strana 112 ---
Next, we can register the model to the device and perform inference on the new
data points, as we learned in the previous section. 
Summary
In this chapter, we learned about the building blocks of PyTorch – tensor objects
and performing various operations on top of them. We proceeded further by
building a neural network on a toy dataset where we started by building a class that
initializes the feed-forward architecture, fetching data points from the dataset by
specifying the batch size, and defining the loss function and the optimizer, looping
through multiple epochs. Finally, we also learned about defining custom loss
functions to optimize a metric of choice and leveraging the sequential method to
simplify the process of defining the network architecture.
All the preceding steps form the foundation of building a neural network, which
will be leveraged multiple times in the various use cases that we will build in
subsequent chapters. 
With this knowledge of the various components of building a neural network using
PyTorch, we will proceed to the next chapter, where we will learn about the
various practical aspects of dealing with the hyperparameters of a neural network
on image datasets.
Questions
1. Why should we convert integer inputs into float values during training?
2. What are the various methods to reshape a tensor object?
3. Why is computation faster with tensor objects over NumPy arrays?
4. What constitutes the init magic function in a neural network class?
5. Why do we perform zero gradients before performing back-propagation?
6. What magic functions constitute the dataset class?
7. How do we make predictions on new data points?
8. How do we fetch the intermediate layer values of a neural network?
9. How does the sequential method help in simplifying defining the architecture
of a neural network?

--- Strana 113 ---
Building a Deep Neural Network with
PyTorch
In the previous chapter, we learned how to code a neural network using
PyTorch. We also learned about the various hyperparameters that are present
in a neural network, such as its batch size, learning rate, and loss
optimizer. In this chapter, we will shift gears and learn how to perform
image classification using neural networks. Essentially, we will learn how to
represent images and tweak the hyperparameters of a neural network to
understand their impact.
For the sake of not introducing too much complexity and confusion, we only
covered the fundamental aspects of neural networks in the previous chapter.
However, there are many more inputs that we tweak in a network while
training it. Typically, these inputs are known as hyperparameters. In
contrast to the parameters in a neural network (which are learned during
training), these inputs are hyperparameters that are provided by the person
who is building the network. Changing different aspects of each
hyperparameter is likely to affect the accuracy or speed of training a neural
network. Furthermore, a few additional techniques such as scaling, batch
normalization, and regularization help in improving the performance of a
neural network. We will be learning about these concepts throughout this
chapter.
However, before we get to that, we will learn about how an image is
represented – only then will we do a deep dive into the details of
hyperparameters. While learning about the impact of hyperparameters, we
will restrict ourselves to one dataset – FashionMNIST – so that we can make
a comparison of the impact of variation in various hyperparameters. Through
this dataset, we will also be introduced to training and validation data and
why it is important to have two separate datasets. Finally, we will learn
about the concept of overfitting a neural network and then understand how
certain hyperparameters help us avoid overfitting.
In summary, in this chapter, we will cover the following topics:

--- Strana 114 ---
Representing an image
Why leverage neural networks for image analysis?
Preparing data for image classification
Training a neural network
Scaling a dataset to improve model accuracy
Understanding the impact of varying the batch size
Understanding the impact of varying the loss optimizer
Understanding the impact of varying the learning rate
Understanding the impact of learning rate annealing
Building a deeper neural network
Understanding the impact of batch normalization
The concept of overfitting
Let's get started!
Representing an image
A digital image file (typically associated with the extension "JPEG" or
"PNG") is comprised of an array of pixels. A pixel is the smallest
constituting element of an image. In a grayscale image, each pixel is a scalar
(single) value between 0 and 255 – 0 is black, 255 is white, and anything in
between is gray (the smaller the pixel value, the darker the pixel is). On the
other hand, the pixels in color images are three-dimensional vectors that
correspond to the scalar values that can be found in its red, green, and blue
channels.
An image has height x width x c pixels, where height is the number
of rows of pixels, width is the number of columns of pixels, and c is the
number of channels. c is 3 for color images (one channel each for the red,
green, and blue intensities of the image) and 1 for grayscale images. An
example grayscale image containing 3 x 3 pixels and their corresponding
scalar values is shown here:

--- Strana 115 ---
Again, a pixel value of 0 means that it is pitch black, while 255 means it is
pure luminance (tat is, pure white for grayscale and pure red/green/blue in
the respective channel for a color image).
Converting images into structured arrays and
scalars
Python can convert images into structured arrays and scalars as follows:
The following code is available as Inspecting_grayscale_images.ipynb in the Chapter03 folder
of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1. Download a sample image:
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/l98leemr7r5stnm/Hemanvi.jpeg
2. Import the cv2 (for reading an image from disk) and matplotlib (for
plotting the loaded image) libraries and read the downloaded image into
the Python environment:
%matplotlib inline
import cv2, matplotlib.pyplot as plt
img = cv2.imread('Hemanvi.jpeg')
In the preceding line of code, we are leveraging the cv2.imread method
to read the image. This converts an image into an array of pixel
values.
3. We'll crop the image between 50th-250th rows, as well as 40th-240th
columns. Finally, we'll convert the image into grayscale using the
following code and plot it:

--- Strana 116 ---
# Crop image
img = img[50:250,40:240]
# Convert image to grayscale
img_gray = cv2.cvtColor(img, cv2.COLOR_BGR2GRAY)
# Show image
plt.imshow(img_gray, cmap='gray')
The output of the preceding sequence of steps is as follows:
You might have noticed that the preceding image is represented as a
200 x 200 array of pixels. Now, let's reduce the number of pixels that
are being used to represent the image so that we can overlay the pixel
values on the image (this would be tougher to do if we were to
visualize the pixel values over a 200 x 200 array compared to a 25 x
25 array).
4. Convert the image into a 25 x 25 array and plot it:
img_gray_small = cv2.resize(img_gray,(25,25))
plt.imshow(img_gray_small, cmap='gray')
This results in the following output:

--- Strana 117 ---
Naturally, having fewer pixels to represent the same image results in
a blurrier output. 
5. Let's inspect the pixel values. Note that in the following output, due to
space constraints, we have pasted only the first four rows of pixel
values:
print(img_gray_small)
This results in the following output:

--- Strana 118 ---
The same set of pixel values, when copied and pasted into Excel and
color-coded by pixel value, would look as follows:
As we mentioned previously, the pixels with a scalar value closer to 255
appear lighter, while those closer to 0 appear darker.
The preceding steps apply to color images too, which are represented as
three-dimensional vectors. The brightest red pixel is denoted as (255,0,0).
Similarly, a pure white pixel in a three-dimensional vector image is
represented as (255,255,255). With this in mind, let's create a structured
array of pixel values for a colored image:
The following code is available as Inspecting_color_images.ipynb in the Chapter03 folder of
this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1.  Download a color image:
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/l98leemr7r5stnm/Hemanvi.jpeg

--- Strana 119 ---
2. Import the relevant packages and load the image:
import cv2, matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
img = cv2.imread('Hemanvi.jpeg') 
3. Crop the image:
img = img[50:250,40:240,:]
img = cv2.cvtColor(img, cv2.COLOR_BGR2RGB) 
Note that in the preceding code, we have reordered the channels
using the cv2.cvtcolor method. We've done this because when we
import images using cv2, the channels are ordered as Blue first,
Green next, and finally Red; typically, we are used to looking at
images in RGB channels, where the sequence is Red, Green, and then
Blue.
4. Plot the image that's obtained (note that if you are reading the print
book and haven't downloaded the color image bundle, it will appear in
grayscale): 
plt.imshow(img)
print(img.shape)
# (200,200,3)
This results in the following output:

--- Strana 120 ---
5. The bottom-right 3 x 3 array of pixels can be obtained as follows:
crop = img[-3:,-3:]
6. Print and plot the pixel values:
print(crop)
plt.imshow(crop)
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 121 ---
Now that we can represent each image as an array of scalars (in the case of a
grayscale image) or an array of arrays (in the case of a color image), we have
essentially converted a file on disk into a structured array format that can
now be processed mathematically using multiple techniques. Converting an
image into a structured array of numbers (that is, reading an image into
Python memory) enables us to perform mathematical operations on top of
the images (which are represented as an array of numbers). We can leverage
this data structure to perform various tasks such as classification, detection,
and segmentation, all of which will be discussed in detail in later chapters.
Now that we have an understanding of how images are represented, let's
understand the reason for leveraging neural networks for image
classification.
Why leverage neural networks for
image analysis?

--- Strana 122 ---
In traditional computer vision, we would create a few features for every
image before using them as input. Let's take a look at a few such features
based on the following sample image in order to appreciate the effort that we
are avoiding going to by training a neural network:
 
Note that we will not walk you through how to get these features as the
intention here is to help you realise why creating features manually is a sub-
optimal exercise:
Histogram feature: For some tasks, such as auto-brightness or night
vision, it is important to understand the illumination in the picture; that
is, the fraction of pixels that are bright or dark. The following graph
shows a histogram for the example image. It depicts that the image is
well illuminated since there is a spike at 255:

--- Strana 123 ---
Edges and Corners feature: For tasks such as image segmentation,
where it is important to find the set of pixels corresponding to each
person, it makes sense to extract the edges first because the border of a
person is just a collection of edges. In other tasks, such as image
registration, it is vital that key landmarks are detected. These landmarks
will be a subset of all the corners in an image. The following image
represents the edges and corners that can be found in our example
image:

--- Strana 124 ---
Color separation feature: In tasks such as traffic light detection for a
self-driving car, it is important that the system understands what color
is being displayed on the traffic lights. The following image (best
viewed in color) shows the exclusively red, green, and blue pixels for
the example image:

--- Strana 125 ---
Image gradients feature: Taking this a step further, it might be
important to understand how the colors are changing at the pixel level.
Different textures can give us different gradients, which means they can
be used as texture detectors. In fact, finding gradients is a prerequisite
for edge detection. The following image shows the overall gradient, as
well as the y and x components of the gradient, for a section of our
example image:

--- Strana 126 ---
 
These are just a handful of such features. There are so many more that it is
difficult to cover all of them. The main drawback of creating these features
is that you need to be an expert in image and signal analysis and should fully
understand what features are best suited to solve a problem. Even if both
constraints are satisfied, there is no guarantee that such an expert will be able
to find the right combination of inputs, and even if they do, there is still no
guarantee that such a combination will work in new, unseen scenarios.
Due to these drawbacks, the community has largely shifted to neural
network-based models. These models not only find the right features
automatically but also learn how to optimally combine them to get the job
done. As we have already understood in the first chapter, neural networks act
as both feature extractors and classifiers. 
Now that we've had a look at some examples of historical feature extraction
techniques and their drawbacks, let's learn how to train a neural network on
images.

--- Strana 127 ---
Preparing our data for image
classification
Given that we are covering multiple scenarios in this chapter, in order for us
to see the advantage of one scenario over the other, we will work on a single
dataset throughout this chapter – the Fashion MNIST dataset. Let's prepare
this dataset:
The following code is available as Preparing_our_data.ipynb in the Chapter03 folder of this
book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1. Start by downloading the dataset and importing the relevant packages.
The torchvision package contains various datasets – one of which is
the FashionMNIST dataset, which we will be working on in this chapter:
from torchvision import datasets
import torch
data_folder = '~/data/FMNIST' # This can be any directory 
# you want to download FMNIST to
fmnist = datasets.FashionMNIST(data_folder, download=True, \
                               train=True)
In the preceding code, we are specifying the folder (data_folder) where
we want to store the downloaded dataset. Next, we are
fetching fmnist data from datasets.FashionMNIST and are storing it
in data_folder. Furthermore, we are specifying that we only want to
download the training images by specifying train = True
Next, we must store the images that are available
in fmnist.data as tr_images and the labels (targets) that are available
in fmnist.targets as tr_targets:
tr_images = fmnist.data
tr_targets = fmnist.targets
2. Inspect the tensors that we are dealing with:
unique_values = tr_targets.unique()
print(f'tr_images & tr_targets:\n\tX -{tr_images.shape}\n\tY \
-{tr_targets.shape}\n\tY-Unique Values : {unique_values}')

--- Strana 128 ---
print(f'TASK:\n\t{len(unique_values)} class Classification')
print(f'UNIQUE CLASSES:\n\t{fmnist.classes}') 
The output of the preceding code is as follows:
Here, we can see that there are 60,000 images each of 28 x 28 in size
and with 10 possible classes across all the images. Note
that tr_targets contains the numeric values for each class,
while fmnist.classes gives us the names that correspond to each
numeric value in tr_targets.
3. Plot a random sample of 10 images for all the 10 possible classes:
Import the relevant packages in order to plot a grid of images and so
that you can also work on arrays:
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
import numpy as np
Create a plot where we can show a 10 x 10 grid, where each row of the
grid corresponds to a class and each column presents an example image
belonging to the row's class. Loop through the unique class numbers
(label_class) and fetch the indices of rows (label_x_rows) corresponding to
the given class number:
R, C = len(tr_targets.unique()), 10
fig, ax = plt.subplots(R, C, figsize=(10,10))
for label_class, plot_row in enumerate(ax):
    label_x_rows = np.where(tr_targets == label_class)[0]

--- Strana 129 ---
Note that in the preceding code, we are fetching the 0th index as the
output of the np.where condition as it has a length of 1. It contains an
array of all the indices where the target value (tr_targets) is equal
to label_class.
Loop through 10 times to fill the columns of a given row. Furthermore,
we need to select a random value (ix) from the indices corresponding to
a given class that were obtained previously (label_x_rows) and plot them:
    for plot_cell in plot_row:
        plot_cell.grid(False); plot_cell.axis('off')
        ix = np.random.choice(label_x_rows)
        x, y = tr_images[ix], tr_targets[ix]
        plot_cell.imshow(x, cmap='gray')
plt.tight_layout()
This results in the following output:

--- Strana 130 ---
Note that in the preceding image, each row represents a sample of 10
different images all belonging to the same class.
Now that we have learned how to import a dataset, in the next section, we
will learn how to train a neural network using PyTorch so that it takes in an
image and predicts the class of that image. Furthermore, we will also learn
about the impact that various hyperparameters have on the accuracy of
prediction.

--- Strana 131 ---
Training a neural network
To train a neural network, we must perform the following steps:
1. Import the relevant packages.
2. Build a dataset that can fetch data one data point at a time.
3. Wrap the DataLoader from the dataset.
4. Build a model and then define the loss function and the optimizer.
5. Define two functions to train and validate a batch of data, respectively.
6. Define a function that will calculate the accuracy of the data.
7. Perform weight updates based on each batch of data over increasing
epochs.
In the following lines of code, we'll perform each of the following steps:
The following code is available as Steps_to_build_a_neural_network_on_FashionMNIST.ipynb in
the Chapter03 folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1. Import the relevant packages and the FMNIST dataset:
from torch.utils.data import Dataset, DataLoader
import torch
import torch.nn as nn
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
device = "cuda" if torch.cuda.is_available() else "cpu"
from torchvision import datasets
data_folder = '~/data/FMNIST' # This can be any directory you 
# want to download FMNIST to
fmnist = datasets.FashionMNIST(data_folder, download=True, \
                                                  train=True)
tr_images = fmnist.data
tr_targets = fmnist.targets
2. Build a class that fetches the dataset. Remember that it is derived from
a Dataset class and needs three magic functions—__init__, __getitem__,
and __len__—to always be defined:
class FMNISTDataset(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, x, y):
        x = x.float()
        x = x.view(-1,28*28)
        self.x, self.y = x, y 
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        x, y = self.x[ix], self.y[ix] 

--- Strana 132 ---
        return x.to(device), y.to(device)
    def __len__(self): 
        return len(self.x)
Note that in the __init__ method, we have converted the input into a
floating-point number and have also flattened each image into 28*28
= 784 numeric values (where each numeric value corresponds to a
pixel value). We are also specifying the number of data points in the
__len__ method; here, it is the length of x. The __getitem__ method
contains logic for what should be returned when we ask for thee ixth
data points (ix will be an integer between 0 and __len__).
3. Create a function that generates a training  DataLoader – trn_dl from the
dataset – called FMNISTDataset. This will sample 32 data points at random
for the batch size:
def get_data(): 
    train = FMNISTDataset(tr_images, tr_targets) 
    trn_dl = DataLoader(train, batch_size=32, shuffle=True)
    return trn_dl
In the preceding lines of code, we created an object
of the FMNISTDataset class named train and invoked the DataLoader so
that it fetched 32 data points at random to return the training
DataLoader; that is, trn_dl.
4. Define a model, as well as the loss function and the optimizer:
from torch.optim import SGD
def get_model():
    model = nn.Sequential(
                nn.Linear(28 * 28, 1000),
                nn.ReLU(),
                nn.Linear(1000, 10)
            ).to(device)
    loss_fn = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
    optimizer = SGD(model.parameters(), lr=1e-2)
    return model, loss_fn, optimizer
The model is a network with one hidden layer containing 1,000
neurons. The output is a 10-neuron layer since there are 10 possible
classes. Furthermore, we are calling the CrossEntropyLoss function since
the output can belong to any of the 10 classes for each image.
Finally, the key aspect to note in this exercise is that we have

--- Strana 133 ---
initialized the learning rate, lr, to a value of 0.01 and not the default
of 0.001 to see how the model will learn for this exercise.
Note that we are not using "softmax" in the neural network at all. The range of outputs is
unconstrained in that values can have an infinite range, whereas cross-entropy loss
typically expects outputs as probabilities (each row should sum to 1). This still works in
this setting because nn.CrossEntropyLoss actually expects us to send the raw logits (that is,
unconstrained values). It performs softmax internally. 
5. Define a function that will train the dataset on a batch of images:
def train_batch(x, y, model, opt, loss_fn):
    model.train() # <- let's hold on to this until we reach 
    # dropout section
    # call your model like any python function on your batch 
    # of inputs
    prediction = model(x)
    # compute loss
    batch_loss = loss_fn(prediction, y)
    # based on the forward pass in `model(x)` compute all the 
    # gradients of 'model.parameters()'
    batch_loss.backward()
    # apply new-weights = f(old-weights, old-weight-gradients) 
    # where "f" is the optimizer
    optimizer.step()
    # Flush gradients memory for next batch of calculations
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    return batch_loss.item()
The preceding code passes the batch of images through the model in
the forward pass. It also computes the loss on batch and then passes
the weights through backward propagation and updates them.
Finally, it flushes the memory of the gradient so that it doesn't
influence how the gradient is calculated in the next pass.
Now that we've done this, we can extract the loss value as a scalar by
fetching batch_loss.item() on top of batch_loss.
6. Build a function that calculates the accuracy of a given dataset:
# since there's no need for updating weights, 
# we might as well not compute the gradients.
# Using this '@' decorator on top of functions 
# will disable gradient computation in the entire function
@torch.no_grad()
def accuracy(x, y, model):
    model.eval() # <- let's wait till we get to dropout 
    # section
    # get the prediction matrix for a tensor of `x` images
    prediction = model(x)

--- Strana 134 ---
    # compute if the location of maximum in each row 
    # coincides with ground truth
    max_values, argmaxes = prediction.max(-1)
    is_correct = argmaxes == y
    return is_correct.cpu().numpy().tolist()
In the preceding lines of code, we are explicitly mentioning that we
don't need to calculate the gradient by providing @torch.no_grad() and
calculating the prediction values by feed-forwarding input through the
model.
Next, we invoke prediction.max(-1) to identify the argmax index
corresponding to each row.
Furthermore, we are comparing our argmaxes with the ground truth
through argmaxes == y so that we can check whether each row is
predicted correctly. Finally, we are returning the list
of is_correct objects after moving it to a CPU and converting it into a
numpy array.
7. Train the neural network using the following lines of code:
Initialize the model, loss, optimizer, and DataLoaders:
trn_dl = get_data()
model, loss_fn, optimizer = get_model()
Invoke the lists that contain the accuracy and loss values at the end of
each epoch:
losses, accuracies = [], []
Define the number of epochs:
for epoch in range(5):
    print(epoch)
Invoke the lists that will contain the accuracy and loss values
corresponding to each batch within an epoch:
    epoch_losses, epoch_accuracies = [], []
Create batches of training data by iterating through the DataLoader:

--- Strana 135 ---
    for ix, batch in enumerate(iter(trn_dl)):
        x, y = batch
Train the batch using the train_batch function and store the loss value at
the end of training on top of the batch as batch_loss. Furthermore, store
the loss values across batches in the epoch_losses list:
        batch_loss = train_batch(x, y, model, optimizer, \
                                                    loss_fn)
        epoch_losses.append(batch_loss)
We store the mean loss value across all batches within an epoch:
    epoch_loss = np.array(epoch_losses).mean()
Next, we calculate the accuracy of the prediction at the end of training
on all batches:
    for ix, batch in enumerate(iter(trn_dl)):
        x, y = batch
        is_correct = accuracy(x, y, model)
        epoch_accuracies.extend(is_correct)
    epoch_accuracy = np.mean(epoch_accuracies)
Store the loss and accuracy values at the end of each epoch in a list:
    losses.append(epoch_loss)
    accuracies.append(epoch_accuracy)
The variation of the training loss and accuracy over increasing
epochs can be displayed using the following code:
epochs = np.arange(5)+1
plt.figure(figsize=(20,5))
plt.subplot(121)
plt.title('Loss value over increasing epochs')
plt.plot(epochs, losses, label='Training Loss')
plt.legend()
plt.subplot(122)
plt.title('Accuracy value over increasing epochs')
plt.plot(epochs, accuracies, label='Training Accuracy')
plt.gca().set_yticklabels(['{:.0f}%'.format(x*100) \
                           for x in plt.gca().get_yticks()]) 
plt.legend()
The output of the preceding code is as follows:

--- Strana 136 ---
Our training accuracy is at 12% at the end of the five epochs. Note that the
loss value did not decrease considerably over an increasing number of
epochs. In other words, no matter how long we wait, it is unlikely that the
model is going to provide high accuracy (say, above 80%). This calls for us
to understand how the various hyperparameters that were used impact the
accuracy of our neural network.
Note that since we did not keep torch.random_seed(0), the results might vary
when you execute the code provided. However, the results you get should
also get you to a similar conclusion.
Now that you have a complete picture of how to train a neural network, let's
study some good practices we should follow to achieve good model
performance and the reasons behind using them. This can be achieved by
fine-tuning various hyperparameters, some of which we will look at in the
upcoming sections.

--- Strana 137 ---
Scaling a dataset to improve model
accuracy
Scaling a dataset is the process of ensuring that the variables are confined to
a finite range. In this section, we will confine the independent variables'
values to values between 0 and 1 by dividing each input value by the
maximum possible value in the dataset. This is a value of 255, which
corresponds to white pixels:
The following code is available as Scaling_the_dataset.ipynb in the Chapter03 folder of this
book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1. Fetch the dataset, as well as the training images and targets, as we did
in the previous section:
from torchvision import datasets
from torch.utils.data import Dataset, DataLoader
import torch
import torch.nn as nn
device = "cuda" if torch.cuda.is_available() else "cpu"
import numpy as np
data_folder = '~/data/FMNIST' # This can be any directory you 
# want to download FMNIST to
fmnist = datasets.FashionMNIST(data_folder, download=True, \
                                    train=True)
tr_images = fmnist.data
tr_targets = fmnist.targets
2. Modify FMNISTDataset, which fetches data, so that the input image is
divided by 255 (the maximum intensity/value of a pixel):
class FMNISTDataset(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, x, y):
        x = x.float()/255
        x = x.view(-1,28*28)
        self.x, self.y = x, y 
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        x, y = self.x[ix], self.y[ix] 
        return x.to(device), y.to(device)
    def __len__(self): 
        return len(self.x)
Note that the only change we've made here compared to the previous
section is that we're dividing the input data by the maximum possible
pixel value – 255.

--- Strana 138 ---
Given that the pixel values range between 0 to 255, dividing them by
255 will result in values that are always between 0 to 1.
3. Train a model, just like we did in steps 4, 5, 6, and 7 of the previous
section:
Fetch the data:
def get_data(): 
    train = FMNISTDataset(tr_images, tr_targets) 
    trn_dl = DataLoader(train, batch_size=32, shuffle=True)
    return trn_dl
Define the model:
from torch.optim import SGD
def get_model():
    model = nn.Sequential(
                nn.Linear(28 * 28, 1000),
                nn.ReLU(),
                nn.Linear(1000, 10)
            ).to(device)
    loss_fn = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
    optimizer = SGD(model.parameters(), lr=1e-2)
    return model, loss_fn, optimizer
Define the functions for training and validating a batch of data:
def train_batch(x, y, model, opt, loss_fn):
    model.train()
    # call your model like any python function on your batch 
    # of inputs
    prediction = model(x)
    # compute loss
    batch_loss = loss_fn(prediction, y)
    # based on the forward pass in `model(x)` compute all the 
    # gradients of 'model.parameters()'
    batch_loss.backward()
    # apply new-weights = f(old-weights, old-weight-gradients) 
    # where "f" is the optimizer
    optimizer.step()
    # Flush memory for next batch of calculations
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    return batch_loss.item()
@torch.no_grad()
def accuracy(x, y, model):
    model.eval()   
    # get the prediction matrix for a tensor of `x` images
    prediction = model(x)
    # compute if the location of maximum in each row 
    # coincides with ground truth
    max_values, argmaxes = prediction.max(-1)
    is_correct = argmaxes == y
    return is_correct.cpu().numpy().tolist()

--- Strana 139 ---
Train the model over increasing epochs:
trn_dl = get_data()
model, loss_fn, optimizer = get_model()
losses, accuracies = [], []
for epoch in range(5):
    print(epoch)
    epoch_losses, epoch_accuracies = [], []
    for ix, batch in enumerate(iter(trn_dl)):
        x, y = batch
        batch_loss = train_batch(x, y, model, optimizer, 
                                        loss_fn)
        epoch_losses.append(batch_loss)
    epoch_loss = np.array(epoch_losses).mean()
    for ix, batch in enumerate(iter(trn_dl)):
        x, y = batch
        is_correct = accuracy(x, y, model)
        epoch_accuracies.extend(is_correct)
    epoch_accuracy = np.mean(epoch_accuracies)
    losses.append(epoch_loss)
    accuracies.append(epoch_accuracy)
The variations for the training loss and accuracy values are as
follows:
As we can see, the training loss consistently reduced and the training
accuracy consistently increased, thus increasing the epochs to an accuracy of
~85%.

--- Strana 140 ---
Contrast the preceding output with the scenario where input data is not
scaled, where training loss did not reduce consistently, and the accuracy of
the training dataset at the end of five epochs was only 12%.
Let's dive into the possible reason why scaling helps here.
Let's take the example of how a sigmoid value is calculated:
In the following table, we've calculated the Sigmoid column based on the
preceding formula:

--- Strana 141 ---
In the left-hand table, we can see that when the weight values are more than
0.1, the Sigmoid value does not vary with an increasing (changing) weight
value. Furthermore, the Sigmoid value changed only by a little when the
weight was extremely small; the only way to vary the sigmoid value is by
having the weight change to a very, very small amount.

--- Strana 142 ---
However, the Sigmoid value changed considerably in the right-hand
table when the input value was small.
The reason for this is that the exponential of a large negative value (resulting
from multiplying the weight value by a large number) is very close to 0,
while the exponential value varies when the weight is multiplied by a scaled
input, as seen in the right-hand table.
Now that we have understood that the Sigmoid value does not change
considerably unless the weight values are very small, we will now learn
about how weight values can be influenced toward an optimal value.
Scaling the input dataset so that it contains a much smaller range of values generally
helps in achieving better model accuracy.
Next, we'll learn about the impact of one of the other major hyperparameters
of any neural network: batch size.
Understanding the impact of
varying the batch size
In the previous section, 32 data points were considered per batch in the
training dataset. This resulted in a greater number of weight updates per
epoch as there were 1,875 weight updates per epoch (60,000/32 is nearly
equal to 1,875, where 60,000 is the number of training images).
Furthermore, we did not consider the model's performance on an unseen
dataset (validation dataset). We will explore this in this section.
In this section, we will compare the following:
The loss and accuracy values of the training and validation data when
the training batch size is 32.
The loss and accuracy values of the training and validation data when
the training batch size is 10,000.

--- Strana 143 ---
Now that we have brought validation data into the picture, let's rerun the
code provided in the Building a neural network section with additional code
to generate validation data, as well as to calculate the loss and accuracy
values of the validation dataset.
The code for the Batch size of 32 and Batch size of 10,000 sections is available
as Varying_batch_size.ipynb in the Chapter03 folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://t
inyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
Batch size of 32
Given that we have already built a model that uses a batch size of 32 during
training, we will elaborate on the additional code that is used to work on the
validation dataset. We'll skip going through the details of training the model
since this is already present in the Building a neural network section. Let's
get started:
1. Download and import the training images and targets:
from torchvision import datasets
import torch
data_folder = '~/data/FMNIST' # This can be any directory you 
# want to download FMNIST to
fmnist = datasets.FashionMNIST(data_folder, download=True, \
                                                train=True)
tr_images = fmnist.data
tr_targets = fmnist.targets
2. In a similar manner to training images, we must download and import
the validation dataset by specifying train = False while calling the
FashionMNIST method in our datasets:
val_fmnist =datasets.FashionMNIST(data_folder,download=True, \
                                                 train=False)
val_images = val_fmnist.data
val_targets = val_fmnist.targets
3. Import the relevant packages and define device:
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
import numpy as np
from torch.utils.data import Dataset, DataLoader
import torch
import torch.nn as nn
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'

--- Strana 144 ---
4.  Define the dataset class (FashionMNIST), the functions that will be used to
train on a batch of data (train_batch), calculate the accuracy (accuracy),
and then define the model architecture, the loss function, and the
optimizer (get_model). Note that the function for getting data will be the
only function that will have a deviation from what we have seen in
previous sections (as we are now working on training and validation
datasets), so we will build it in the next step: 
class FMNISTDataset(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, x, y):
        x = x.float()/255
        x = x.view(-1,28*28)
        self.x, self.y = x, y 
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        x, y = self.x[ix], self.y[ix] 
        return x.to(device), y.to(device)
    def __len__(self): 
        return len(self.x)
from torch.optim import SGD, Adam
def get_model():
    model = nn.Sequential(
                nn.Linear(28 * 28, 1000),
                nn.ReLU(),
                nn.Linear(1000, 10)
            ).to(device)
    loss_fn = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
    optimizer = Adam(model.parameters(), lr=1e-2)
    return model, loss_fn, optimizer
def train_batch(x, y, model, opt, loss_fn):
    model.train()
    prediction = model(x)
    batch_loss = loss_fn(prediction, y)
    batch_loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    return batch_loss.item()
def accuracy(x, y, model):
    model.eval()
    # this is the same as @torch.no_grad 
    # at the top of function, only difference
    # being, grad is not computed in the with scope
    with torch.no_grad():
        prediction = model(x)
    max_values, argmaxes = prediction.max(-1)
    is_correct = argmaxes == y
    return is_correct.cpu().numpy().tolist()
5. Define a function that will get data; that is, get_data. This function will
return the training data with a batch size of 32 and the validation dataset
with a batch size that's the length of the validation data (we will not use

--- Strana 145 ---
the validation data to train the model; we will only use it to understand
the model's accuracy on unseen data):
def get_data(): 
    train = FMNISTDataset(tr_images, tr_targets) 
    trn_dl = DataLoader(train, batch_size=32, shuffle=True)
    val = FMNISTDataset(val_images, val_targets) 
    val_dl = DataLoader(val, batch_size=len(val_images), 
                                            shuffle=False)
    return trn_dl, val_dl
In the preceding code, we created an object of the FMNISTDataset class
named val, in addition to the train object that we saw earlier.
Furthermore, the DataLoader for validation (val_dl) has been fetched
with a batch size of len(val_images), while the batch size of trn_dl is 32.
This is because the training data is used to train the model while we
are fetching the accuracy and loss metrics of the validation data. In
this section and the next, we are trying to understand the impact of
varying batch_size based on the model's training time and accuracy.
6. Define a function that calculates the loss of the validation data; that
is, val_loss. Note that we are calculating this separately since loss of
training data is getting calculated while training the model:
@torch.no_grad()
def val_loss(x, y, model):
    model.eval()
    prediction = model(x)
    val_loss = loss_fn(prediction, y)
    return val_loss.item()
As you can see, we are applying torch.no_grad because we are not
training the model and only fetching predictions. Furthermore, we
are passing our prediction through the loss function (loss_fn) and
returning the loss value (val_loss.item()).
7. Fetch the training and validation DataLoaders. Also, initialize the
model, loss function, and optimizer:
trn_dl, val_dl = get_data()
model, loss_fn, optimizer = get_model()
8. Train the model, as follows:

--- Strana 146 ---
Initialize the lists that contain training and validation accuracy, as well
as loss values over increasing epochs:
train_losses, train_accuracies = [], []
val_losses, val_accuracies = [], []
Loop through five epochs and initialize lists that contain accuracy and
loss across batches of training data within a given epoch:
for epoch in range(5):
    print(epoch)
    train_epoch_losses, train_epoch_accuracies = [], []
Loop through batches of training data and calculate the accuracy 
(train_epoch_accuracy) and loss value (train_epoch_loss) within an epoch:
    for ix, batch in enumerate(iter(trn_dl)):
        x, y = batch
        batch_loss = train_batch(x, y, model, optimizer, \
                                                loss_fn)
        train_epoch_losses.append(batch_loss) 
    train_epoch_loss = np.array(train_epoch_losses).mean()
    for ix, batch in enumerate(iter(trn_dl)):
        x, y = batch
        is_correct = accuracy(x, y, model)
        train_epoch_accuracies.extend(is_correct)
    train_epoch_accuracy = np.mean(train_epoch_accuracies)
Calculate the loss value and accuracy within the one batch of validation
data (since the batch size of the validation data is equal to the length of
the validation data):
    for ix, batch in enumerate(iter(val_dl)):
        x, y = batch
        val_is_correct = accuracy(x, y, model)
        validation_loss = val_loss(x, y, model)
    val_epoch_accuracy = np.mean(val_is_correct)
Note that in the preceding code, the loss value of the validation data
is calculated using the val_loss function and is stored
in the validation_loss variable. Furthermore, the accuracy of all the
validation data points is stored in the val_is_correct list, while the
mean of this is stored in the val_epoch_accuracy variable.
Finally, we append the training and validation datasets' accuracy and
loss values to the lists that contain the epoch level aggregate validation

--- Strana 147 ---
and accuracy values. We're doing this so that we can look at the epoch
level's improvement in the next step:
    train_losses.append(train_epoch_loss)
    train_accuracies.append(train_epoch_accuracy)
    val_losses.append(validation_loss)
    val_accuracies.append(val_epoch_accuracy)
9. Visualize the improvements in the accuracy and loss values in the
training and validation datasets over increasing epochs:
epochs = np.arange(5)+1
import matplotlib.ticker as mtick
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import matplotlib.ticker as mticker
%matplotlib inline
plt.subplot(211)
plt.plot(epochs, train_losses, 'bo', label='Training loss')
plt.plot(epochs, val_losses, 'r', label='Validation loss')
plt.gca().xaxis.set_major_locator(mticker.MultipleLocator(1))
plt.title('Training and validation loss \
when batch size is 32')
plt.xlabel('Epochs')
plt.ylabel('Loss')
plt.legend()
plt.grid('off')
plt.show()
plt.subplot(212)
plt.plot(epochs, train_accuracies, 'bo', \
         label='Training accuracy')
plt.plot(epochs, val_accuracies, 'r', \
         label='Validation accuracy')
plt.gca().xaxis.set_major_locator(mticker.MultipleLocator(1))
plt.title('Training and validation accuracy \
when batch size is 32')
plt.xlabel('Epochs')
plt.ylabel('Accuracy')
plt.gca().set_yticklabels(['{:.0f}%'.format(x*100) \
                           for x in plt.gca().get_yticks()]) 
plt.legend()
plt.grid('off')
plt.show()
The preceding code gives us the following output:

--- Strana 148 ---
As you can see, the training and validation accuracy are ~85% by the end of
five epochs when the batch size is 32. Next, we will vary
the batch_size parameter when training the DataLoader in the get_data function
to see its impact on accuracy at the end of five epochs.
Batch size of 10,000
In this section, we'll use 10,000 data points per batch so that we can
understand what impact varying the batch size has.
Note that the code provided in the Batch size of 32 section remains exactly the same
here, except for the code in step 5. Here, we will specify the DataLoaders for the training
and validation datasets in the get_data function. We encourage you to refer to the
respective notebook that's available in this book's GitHub repository while executing
the code.
We will modify get_data so that it has a batch size of 10,000 while fetching
the training DataLoader from the training dataset, as follows:

--- Strana 149 ---
def get_data(): 
    train = FMNISTDataset(tr_images, tr_targets) 
    trn_dl = DataLoader(train, batch_size=10000, shuffle=True)
    val = FMNISTDataset(val_images, val_targets) 
    val_dl = DataLoader(val, batch_size=len(val_images), \
                                                shuffle=False)
    return trn_dl, val_dl
By making only this necessary change in step 5 and after executing all the
steps until step 9, the variation in the training and validation's accuracy and
loss over increasing epochs when the batch size is 10,000 is as follows:
Here, we can see that the accuracy and loss values did not reach the same
levels as that of the previous scenario, where the batch size was 32, because
the time weights are updated fewer times when the batch size is 32 (1875).
In the scenario where the batch size is 10,000, there were six weight updates

--- Strana 150 ---
per epoch since there were 10,000 data points per batch, which means that
the total training data size was 60,000.
So far, we have learned how to scale a dataset, as well as the impact of
varying the batch size on the model's training time to achieve a certain
accuracy. In the next section, we will learn about the impact of varying the
loss optimizer on the same dataset.
Having a lower batch size generally helps in achieving optimal accuracy when you have
a small number of epochs, but it should not be so low that training time is impacted.
Understanding the impact of
varying the loss optimizer
So far, we have been optimizing loss based on the Adam optimizer. In this
section, we will do the following:
Modify the optimizer so that it becomes a Stochastic Gradient
Descent (SGD) optimizer
Revert to a batch size of 32 while fetching data in the DataLoader
Increase the number of epochs to 10 (so that we can compare the
performance of SGD and Adam over a longer number of epochs)
Making these changes means that only one step in the Batch size of 32
section will change (since the batch size is already 32 in the Batch size of 32
section); that is, we will modify the optimizer so that it's the SGD optimizer.
Let's modify the get_model function in step 4 of the Batch size of 32 section in
order to modify the optimzier so that we're using the SGD optimizer instead,
as follows:
The following code is available as Varying_loss_optimizer.ipynb in the Chapter03 folder of
this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt . Note that we are not providing
all the steps for brevity and that only the steps where we're making a change from the
code we went through in the Batch size of 32 section will be discussed in the following
code. We encourage you to refer to the respective notebooks in this book's GitHub
repository while executing the code.

--- Strana 151 ---
1. Modify the optimizer so that you're using the SGD optimizer
in the get_model function while ensuring that everything else remains the
same:
from torch.optim import SGD, Adam
def get_model():
    model = nn.Sequential(
                nn.Linear(28 * 28, 1000),
                nn.ReLU(),
                nn.Linear(1000, 10)
            ).to(device)
    loss_fn = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
    optimizer = SGD(model.parameters(), lr=1e-2)
    return model, loss_fn, optimizer
Now, let's increase the number of epochs in step 8 while keeping
every other step (except for steps 4 and 8) the same as they are in the
Batch size of 32 section.
2. Increase the number of epochs we'll be using to train the model:
train_losses, train_accuracies = [], []
val_losses, val_accuracies = [], []
for epoch in range(10):
    train_epoch_losses, train_epoch_accuracies = [], []
    for ix, batch in enumerate(iter(trn_dl)):
        x, y = batch
        batch_loss = train_batch(x, y, model, optimizer, \
                                                loss_fn)
        train_epoch_losses.append(batch_loss) 
    train_epoch_loss = np.array(train_epoch_losses).mean()
    for ix, batch in enumerate(iter(trn_dl)):
        x, y = batch
        is_correct = accuracy(x, y, model)
        train_epoch_accuracies.extend(is_correct)
    train_epoch_accuracy = np.mean(train_epoch_accuracies)
    for ix, batch in enumerate(iter(val_dl)):
        x, y = batch
        val_is_correct = accuracy(x, y, model)
        validation_loss = val_loss(x, y, model)
    val_epoch_accuracy = np.mean(val_is_correct)
    train_losses.append(train_epoch_loss)
    train_accuracies.append(train_epoch_accuracy)
    val_losses.append(validation_loss)
    val_accuracies.append(val_epoch_accuracy)
After making these changes, once we execute all the remaining steps
in the Batch size of 32 section in order, the variation in the training

--- Strana 152 ---
and validation datasets' accuracy and loss values over increasing
epochs will be as follows:
Let's fetch the same output for the training and validation loss and accuracy
variation over increasing epochs where the optimizer is Adam. This requires
us to change the optimizer in step 4 to Adam.
The variation in the training and validation datasets' accuracy and loss
values, once this change has been made and the code has been executed, is
as follows:

--- Strana 153 ---
As you can see, when we used the Adam optimizer, the accuracy was still
very close to 85%. However, note that so far, the learning rate has been 0.01.
In the next section, we will learn about the impact the learning rate can have
on the validation dataset's accuracy.
Certain optimizers achieve optimal accuracy faster compared to others. Adam generally
achieves optimal accuracy faster. Some of the other prominent optimizers that are
available include Adagrad, Adadelta, AdamW, LBFGS, and RMSprop.
Understanding the impact of
varying the learning rate
So far, we have been using a learning rate of 0.01 while training our models.
In Chapter 1, Artificial Neural Network Fundamentals, we learned that the

--- Strana 154 ---
learning rate plays a key role in attaining optimal weight values. Here, the
weight values gradually move toward the optimal value when the learning
rate is small, while the weight value oscillates at a non-optimal value when
the learning rate is large. We worked on a toy dataset in Chapter 1, Artificial
Neural Network Fundamentals, so we will work on a realistic scenario in
this section.
To understand the impact of the varying learning rate, we'll go through the
following scenario:
Higher learning rate (0.1) on a scaled dataset
Lower learning rate (0.00001) on a scaled dataset
Lower learning rate (0.001) on a non-scaled dataset
Higher learning rate (0.1) on a non-scaled dataset
Overall, in this section, we'll be learning about the impact that various
learning rate values have on scaled and non-scaled datasets.
In this section, we are learning about the impact the learning rate has on non-scaled
data, even though we have already established that it is helpful to scale a dataset. We're
doing this again because we want you to gain an intuition of how the distribution of
weights varies between the scenario where the model is able to fit to the data versus
where the model isn't able to fit to the data.
Now, let's learn how the model learns on a scaled dataset.
Impact of the learning rate on a scaled dataset
In this section, we will contrast the accuracy of the training and validation
datasets against the following:
High learning rate
Medium learning rate
Low learning rate
The code for the following three subsections is available
as Varying_learning_rate_on_scaled_data.ipynb in the Chapter03 folder of this book's GitHub
repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt . Note that we are not providing all the steps for
brevity; only the steps where there is a change from the code we went through in the
Batch size of 32 section will be discussed in the following code. We encourage you to

--- Strana 155 ---
refer to the respective notebooks in this book's GitHub repository while executing the
code.
Let's get started!
High learning rate
In this section, we will adopt the following strategy:
The steps we need to execute will be exactly the same as in the Batch
size of 32 section, when we used the Adam optimizer.
The only change will be in the learning rate in optimizer while we define
the get_model function. Here, we'll be changing the learning rate (lr) to a
value of 0.1.
Note that all the code remains the same as in the Batch size of 32 section,
except for the modifications in the get_model function that we will be making
in this section.
To modify the learning rate, we must change it in the definition of optimizer,
which can be found in the get_model function, as follows:
def get_model():
    model = nn.Sequential(
                nn.Linear(28 * 28, 1000),
                nn.ReLU(),
                nn.Linear(1000, 10)
            ).to(device)
    loss_fn = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
    optimizer = Adam(model.parameters(), lr=1e-1)
    return model, loss_fn, optimizer
Note that in the preceding code, we have modified the optimizer so that it
has a learning rate of 0.1 (lr=1e-1).
Once we execute all the remaining steps, as provided in GitHub, the
accuracy and loss values corresponding to the training and validation
datasets will be as follows:

--- Strana 156 ---
Note that the accuracy of the validation dataset is ~25% (contrast this
accuracy with the ~85% accuracy we achieved when the learning rate was
0.01). 
In the next section, we will understand the accuracy of the validation dataset
when the learning rate is medium (0.001). 
Medium learning rate
In this section, we'll reduce the learning rate of the optimizer to 0.001 by
modifying the get_model function and retraining the model from scratch. 
The modified code for the get_model function is as follows:
def get_model():
    model = nn.Sequential(

--- Strana 157 ---
                nn.Linear(28 * 28, 1000),
                nn.ReLU(),
                nn.Linear(1000, 10)
            ).to(device)
    loss_fn = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
    optimizer = Adam(model.parameters(), lr=1e-3)
    return model, loss_fn, optimizer 
Note that in the preceding code, the learning rate has been reduced to a small
value since we modified the lr parameter value.
Once we execute all the remaining steps, as provided in GitHub, the
accuracy and loss values corresponding to the training and validation
datasets will be as follows:
From the preceding output, we can see that the model was trained
successfully when the learning rate (or) was reduced from 0.1 to 0.001
In the next section, we will reduce the learning rate even further.

--- Strana 158 ---
Low learning rate
In this section, we'll reduce the learning rate of the optimizer to 0.00001 by
modifying the get_model function and retraining the model from scratch. In
addition, we will run the model for a longer number of epochs (100).
The modified code we'll be using for the get_model function is as follows:
def get_model():
    model = nn.Sequential(
                nn.Linear(28 * 28, 1000),
                nn.ReLU(),
                nn.Linear(1000, 10)
            ).to(device)
    loss_fn = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
    optimizer = Adam(model.parameters(), lr=1e-5)
    return model, loss_fn, optimizer 
Note that in the preceding code, the learning rate has been reduced to a very
small value due to us modifying the lr parameter value.
Once we execute all the remaining steps, as provided in GitHub, the
accuracy and loss values corresponding to the training and validation
datasets will be as follows:

--- Strana 159 ---
From the preceding image, we can see that the model learned far slower
compared to the previous scenario (medium learning rate). Here, it took
~100 epochs to reach an accuracy of ~89% compared to eight epochs when
the learning rate was 0.001.
In addition, we should also note that the gap between the training and
validation loss is much lower when the learning rate is low compared to the
previous scenario (where a similar gap existed at the end of epoch 4). The
reason for this is that the weight update is much lower when the learning rate
is low, which means that the gap between the training and validation loss
does not widen quickly.
So far, we have learned about the impact the learning rate has on the training
and validation datasets' accuracy. In the next section, we'll learn how the
weight values' distribution varies across layers for different learning rate
values.
Parameter distribution across layers for different learning rates

--- Strana 160 ---
In the previous sections, we learned that with a high learning rate (0.1), the
model was unable to be trained (the model underfitted). However, we could
train the model so that it had a decent accuracy when the learning rate was
either medium (0.001) or low (0.00001). Here, we saw that the medium
learning rate was able to overfit quickly, while the low learning rate took a
longer time to achieve an accuracy comparable to that of a medium learning
rate model.
In this section, we will learn about how parameter distribution can be a good
indicator of model overfit and underfit.
So far, there are four parameter groups in our model:
Weights in the layer connecting the input layer to the hidden layer
Bias in the hidden layer
Weights in the layer connecting the hidden layer to the output layer
Bias in the output layer
Let's take a look at the distribution of each of these parameters by using the
following code (we'll execute the following code for each model):
for ix, par in enumerate(model.parameters()):
    if(ix==0):
        plt.hist(par.cpu().detach().numpy().flatten())
        plt.title('Distribution of weights conencting \
                    input to hidden layer')
        plt.show()
    elif(ix ==1):
        plt.hist(par.cpu().detach().numpy().flatten())
        plt.title('Distribution of biases of hidden layer')
        plt.show()
    elif(ix==2):
        plt.hist(par.cpu().detach().numpy().flatten())
        plt.title('Distribution of weights conencting \
                    hidden to output layer')
        plt.show()
    elif(ix ==3):
        plt.hist(par.cpu().detach().numpy().flatten())
        plt.title('Distribution of biases of output layer')
        plt.show()
Note that model.parameters will vary by the model we are plotting the
distribution for. The output of the preceding code across the three learning
rates is as follows:

--- Strana 161 ---

--- Strana 162 ---
Here, we can see the following:
When the learning rate is high, parameters have a much larger
distribution compared to medium and low learning rates.
When parameters have a bigger distribution, overfitting occurs.
So far, we've studied the impact of varying the learning rate on a model
that's been trained on a scaled dataset. In the next section, we'll learn about
the impact of varying the learning rate on a model that's been trained on non-
scaled data. 
Note that even though we have already established that it is better to always
scale input values, we will continue to establish the impact of training a
model on a non-scaled dataset.
Impact of varying the learning rate on a non-
scaled dataset
In this section, we will revert to working on a dataset by not performing
division by 255 in the class where we define the dataset. This can be done
like so:
The code for this section is available as Varying_learning_rate_on_non_scaled_data.ipynb in
the Chapter03 folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt . Note that
we are not providing all the steps for brevity and that only the steps where there is a
change from the code we went through in the Batch size of 32 section will be discussed
in the following code. We encourage you to refer to the notebooks in this book's
GitHub repository while executing the code.
class FMNISTDataset(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, x, y):
        x = x.float() # Note that the data is not scaled in this 
        # scenario
        x = x.view(-1,28*28)
        self.x, self.y = x, y 
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        x, y = self.x[ix], self.y[ix] 
        return x.to(device), y.to(device)
    def __len__(self): 
        return len(self.x)
Note that, in the highlighted section in the preceding code (x = x.float()), we
did not divide by 255, which we performed when we scaled the dataset.

--- Strana 163 ---
The result of varying the learning rate by changing the accuracy and loss
values across epochs is as follows:

--- Strana 164 ---

--- Strana 165 ---
As we can see, even when the dataset is non-scaled, we were not able to
train an accurate model when the learning rate was 0.1. Furthermore, the
accuracy was not as high as in the previous section when the learning rate
was 0.001.
Finally, when the learning rate was very small (0.00001), the model was able
to learn as well as it did in previous sections, but this time overfitted on the
training data. Let's understand why this happened by going through the
parameter distributions across layers, as follows:
Here, we can see that when the model accuracy was high (which is when the
learning rate was 0.00001), the weights had a much smaller range (typically
ranging between -0.05 to 0.05 in this case) compared to when the learning
rate was high.

--- Strana 166 ---
The weights can be tuned toward a small value since the learning rate is small. Note that the scenario
where the learning rate is 0.00001 on a non-scaled dataset is equivalent to the scenario of the
learning rate being 0.001 on a scaled dataset. This is because the weights can now move toward a
very small value (because gradient * learning rate is a very small value, given that the learning rate is
small).
Now that we have established that having a high learning rate is not likely to
yield the best possible results on both scaled and non-scaled datasets, in the
next section, we will learn about how to reduce the learning rate
automatically when the model starts overfitting.
Generally, a learning rate of 0.001 works. Having a very low learning rate means it will
take a long time to train the model, while having a high learning rate results in the
model becoming unstable.
Understanding the impact of
learning rate annealing
So far, we have initialized a learning rate, and it has remained the same
across all the epochs while training the model. However, initially, it would
be intuitive for the weights to be updated quickly to a near-optimal scenario.
From then on, they should be updated very slowly since the amount of loss
that gets reduced initially is high and the amount of loss that gets reduced in
the later epochs would be low.
This calls for having a high learning rate initially and gradually lowering it
later on as the model achieves near-optimal accuracy. This requires us to
understand when the learning rate must be reduced.
One potential way we can solve this problem is by continually monitoring
the validation loss and if the validation loss does not decrease (let's say, over
the previous x epochs), then we reduce the learning rate.
PyTorch provides us with tools we can use to perform learning rate reduction
when the validation loss does not decrease in the previous "x" epochs. Here,
we can use the lr_scheduler method:

--- Strana 167 ---
from torch import optim
scheduler = optim.lr_scheduler.ReduceLROnPlateau(optimizer,
                                    factor=0.5,patience=0,
                                    threshold = 0.001, 
                                    verbose=True, 
                                    min_lr = 1e-5, 
                                    threshold_mode = 'abs')
In the preceding code, we are specifying that we're reducing the learning rate
parameter of optimizer by a factor of 0.5 if a certain value does not improve
over the next n epochs (where n is 0 in this case) by a threshold (which in this
case is 0.001). Finally, we are specifying that the learning rate, min_lr (given
that it is reducing by a factor of 0.5), cannot be below 1e-5 and
that threshold_mode should be absolute to ensure that a minimum threshold of
0.001 is crossed.
Now that we have learned about the scheduler, let's apply it while training
our model.
Similar to the previous sections, all the code remains the same as in the
Batch size of 32 section, except for the bold code shown here, which has
been added for calculating the validation loss:
The code for this section is available as Learning_rate_annealing.ipynb in the Chapter03 folder
of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt . Note that we are not
providing all the steps for brevity and that only the steps where there is a change from
the code we went through in the Batch size of 32 section will be discussed in the
following code. We encourage you to refer to the notebooks in this book's GitHub
repository while executing the code. 
from torch import optim
scheduler = optim.lr_scheduler.ReduceLROnPlateau(optimizer, 
                                    factor=0.5, patience=0, 
                                    threshold = 0.001, 
                                    verbose=True, 
                                    min_lr = 1e-5, 
                                    threshold_mode = 'abs')
train_losses, train_accuracies = [], []
val_losses, val_accuracies = [], []
for epoch in range(30):
    #print(epoch)
    train_epoch_losses, train_epoch_accuracies = [], []
    for ix, batch in enumerate(iter(trn_dl)):
        x, y = batch
        batch_loss = train_batch(x, y, model, optimizer, \
                                 loss_fn)
        train_epoch_losses.append(batch_loss) 
    train_epoch_loss = np.array(train_epoch_losses).mean()
    for ix, batch in enumerate(iter(trn_dl)):

--- Strana 168 ---
        x, y = batch
        is_correct = accuracy(x, y, model)
        train_epoch_accuracies.extend(is_correct)
    train_epoch_accuracy = np.mean(train_epoch_accuracies)
    for ix, batch in enumerate(iter(val_dl)):
        x, y = batch
        val_is_correct = accuracy(x, y, model)
        validation_loss = val_loss(x, y, model)
        scheduler.step(validation_loss)
    val_epoch_accuracy = np.mean(val_is_correct)
    train_losses.append(train_epoch_loss)
    train_accuracies.append(train_epoch_accuracy)
    val_losses.append(validation_loss)
    val_accuracies.append(val_epoch_accuracy)
In the preceding code, we are specifying that the scheduler should be
activated whenever the validation loss does not decrease over consecutive
epochs. The learning rate is reduced by a factor of 0.5 x the current learning
rate in those cases.
The output of performing this on our model is as follows:
Let's understand the variation in the training and validation datasets'
accuracy and loss values over increasing epochs:

--- Strana 169 ---
Note that the learning rate reduced by half whenever the validation loss
increased by at least 0.001 over increasing epochs. This happened in epochs
5, 8, 11, 12, 13, 15, and 16.
Furthermore, we did not have any huge overfitting issues, even though we
trained the model for 100 epochs. This is because the learning rate became
so small that the weight update was very small, resulting in a smaller gap
between the training and validation accuracies (when compared with the
scenario where we had 100 epochs without learning rate annealing, where
the training accuracy was close to 100% while the validation accuracy was
close to ~89%).
So far, we have learned about the impact various hyperparameters have on
the accuracy of a model. In the next section, we will learn about how the
number of layers in a neural network impacts its accuracy.
Building a deeper neural network
So far, our neural network architecture only has one hidden layer. In this
section, we will contrast the performance of models where there are two
hidden layers and no hidden layer (with no hidden layer being a logistic
regression).

--- Strana 170 ---
A model with two layers within a network can be built as follows (note that
we have kept the number of units in the second hidden layer set to 1,000).
The modified get_model function (from the code in the Batch size of 32
section), where there are two hidden layers, is as follows:
The following code is available as Impact_of_building_a_deeper_neural_network.ipynb in the
Chapter03 folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt . Note that we
are not providing all the steps for brevity and that only the steps where there is a change
from the code we went through in the Batch size of 32 section will be discussed in the
following code. We encourage you to refer to the notebooks in this book's GitHub
repository while executing the code.
def get_model():
    model = nn.Sequential(
                nn.Linear(28 * 28, 1000),
                nn.ReLU(),
                nn.Linear(1000, 1000),
                nn.ReLU(),
                nn.Linear(1000, 10)
            ).to(device)
    loss_fn = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
    optimizer = Adam(model.parameters(), lr=1e-3)
    return model, loss_fn, optimizer
Similarly, the get_model function, where there are no hidden layers, is as
follows:
def get_model():
    model = nn.Sequential(
                nn.Linear(28 * 28, 10)
            ).to(device)
    loss_fn = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
    optimizer = Adam(model.parameters(), lr=1e-3)
    return model, loss_fn, optimizer
Note that in the preceding function, we are connecting the input directly to
the output layer.
Once we train the models as we did in the Batch size of 32 section, the
accuracy and loss on the train and validation datasets will be as follows:

--- Strana 171 ---
Here, take note of the following:
The model was unable to learn as well as when there were no hidden
layers.
The model overfit by a larger amount when there were two hidden
layers compared to one hidden layer (the validation loss is higher in the
model with two layers compared to the model with one layer).

--- Strana 172 ---
So far, across different sections, we have seen that the model was unable to
be trained well when the input data wasn't scaled (brought down to a small
range). Non-scaled data (data with a higher range) can also occur in hidden
layers (especially when we have deep neural networks with multiple hidden
layers) because of the matrix multiplication that's involved in getting the
values of nodes in hidden layers. In the next section, we will learn how to
deal with such non-scaled data in intermediate layers.
Understanding the impact of batch
normalization
Previously, we learned that when the input value is large, the variation of the
Sigmoid output doesn't make much difference when the weight values
change considerably.
Now, let's consider the opposite scenario, where the input values are very
small:

--- Strana 173 ---
When the input value is very small, the Sigmoid output changes slightly,
making a big change to the weight value.
Additionally, in the Scaling the input data section, we saw that large input
values have a negative effect on training accuracy. This suggests that we can
neither have very small nor very big values for our input.
Along with very small or very big values in input, we may also encounter a
scenario where the value of one of the nodes in the hidden layer could result
in either a very small number or a very large number, resulting in the same
issue we saw previously with the weights connecting the hidden layer to the
next layer.
Batch normalization comes to the rescue in such a scenario since
it normalizes the values at each node, just like when we scaled our input
values.
Typically, all the input values in a batch are scaled as follows:
By subtracting each data point from the batch mean and then dividing it by
the batch variance, we have normalized all the data points of the batch at a
node to a fixed range.
While this is known as hard normalization, by introducing the γ and β
parameters, we are letting the network identify the best normalization

--- Strana 174 ---
parameters.
To understand how the batch normalization process helps, let's take a look at
the loss and accuracy values on the training and validation datasets, as well
as the distribution of hidden layer values, in the following scenarios:
Very small input values without batch normalization
Very small input values with batch normalization
Let's get started!
Very small input values without batch
normalization
So far, when we had to scale input data, we scaled it to a value between 0
and 1. In this section, we will scale it further to a value between 0 and
0.0001 so that we can understand the impact of scaling data. As we saw at
the beginning of this section, small input values could not change the
Sigmoid value, even with a big variation in weight values.
To scale the input dataset so that it has a very low value, we'll change the
scaling that typically we do in the FMNISTDataset class by reducing the range of
input values from 0 to 0.0001, as follows:
The following code is available as Batch_normalization.ipynb in the Chapter03 folder of this
book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt . Note that we are not providing all
the steps for brevity and that only the steps where there is a change from the code we
went through in the Batch size of 32 section will be discussed in the following code. We
encourage you to refer to the notebooks in this book's GitHub repository while
executing the code.
class FMNISTDataset(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, x, y):
        x = x.float()/(255*10000) # Done only for us to 
        # understand the impact of Batch normalization
        x = x.view(-1,28*28)
        self.x, self.y = x, y 
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        x, y = self.x[ix], self.y[ix] 
        return x.to(device), y.to(device)
    def __len__(self): 
        return len(self.x)

--- Strana 175 ---
Note that in the bold section of code (x = x.float()/(255*10000)), we have
reduced the range of input pixel values by dividing them by 10,000.
Next, we must redefine the get_model function so that we can fetch the model's
prediction, as well as the values for the hidden layer. We can do this by
specifying a neural network class, as follows:
def get_model():
    class neuralnet(nn.Module):
        def __init__(self):
            super().__init__()
            self.input_to_hidden_layer = nn.Linear(784,1000)
            self.hidden_layer_activation = nn.ReLU()
            self.hidden_to_output_layer = nn.Linear(1000,10)
        def forward(self, x):
            x = self.input_to_hidden_layer(x)
            x1 = self.hidden_layer_activation(x)
            x2= self.hidden_to_output_layer(x1)
            return x2, x1
    model = neuralnet().to(device)
    loss_fn = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
    optimizer = Adam(model.parameters(), lr=1e-3)
    return model, loss_fn, optimizer
In the preceding code, we defined the neuralnet class, which returns the
output layer values (x2) and the hidden layer's activation values (x1). Note
that the architecture of the network hasn't changed.
Given that the get_model function returns two outputs now, we need to modify
the train_batch and val_loss functions, which make predictions, by passing
input through the model. Here, we'll only fetch the output layer values, not
the hidden layer values. Given that the output layer values are in the
0th index of what is returned from the model, we'll modify the functions so
that they only fetch the 0th index of predictions, as follows:
def train_batch(x, y, model, opt, loss_fn):
    model.train()
    prediction = model(x)[0]
    batch_loss = loss_fn(prediction, y)
    batch_loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    return batch_loss.item()
def accuracy(x, y, model):
    model.eval()
    with torch.no_grad():
        prediction = model(x)[0]
    max_values, argmaxes = prediction.max(-1)

--- Strana 176 ---
    is_correct = argmaxes == y
    return is_correct.cpu().numpy().tolist()
Note that the bold section in the preceding code is where we have ensured
we only fetch the 0th index of the model's output (since the 0th index
contains the output layer's values).
Now, when we run the rest of the code provided in the Scaling the data
section, we'll see that the variation in the accuracy and loss values in the
training and validation datasets over increasing epochs is as follows:

--- Strana 177 ---
Note that in the preceding scenario, the model didn't train well, even after
100 epochs (the model was trained to an accuracy of ~90% on the validation
dataset within 10 epochs in the previous sections, while the current model
only has ~85% validation accuracy).
Let's understand the reason why the model doesn't train as well when the
input values have a very small range by exploring the hidden values'
distribution, as well as the parameter distribution:
Note that the first distribution indicates the distribution of values in the
hidden layer (where we can see that the values have a very small range).
Furthermore, given that both the input and hidden layer values have a very
small range, the weights had to be varied by a large amount (for both the
weights that are connecting the input to the hidden layer and the weights that
are connecting the hidden layer to the output layer).
Now that we understand that the network doesn't train well when the input
values have a very small range, let's understand how batch normalization
helps increase the range of values within the hidden layer.
Very small input values with batch normalization

--- Strana 178 ---
In this section, we'll only be making one change to the code from the
previous subsection; that is, we'll be adding batch normalization while
defining the model architecture.
The modified get_model function is as follows:
def get_model():
    class neuralnet(nn.Module):
        def __init__(self):
            super().__init__()
            self.input_to_hidden_layer = nn.Linear(784,1000)
            self.batch_norm = nn.BatchNorm1d(1000)
            self.hidden_layer_activation = nn.ReLU()
            self.hidden_to_output_layer = nn.Linear(1000,10)
        def forward(self, x):
            x = self.input_to_hidden_layer(x)
            x0 = self.batch_norm(x)
            x1 = self.hidden_layer_activation(x0)
            x2= self.hidden_to_output_layer(x1)
            return x2, x1
    model = neuralnet().to(device)
    loss_fn = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
    optimizer = Adam(model.parameters(), lr=1e-3)
    return model, loss_fn, optimizer
Note that in the preceding code, we declared a variable (batch_norm) that
performs batch normalization (nn.BatchNorm1d). The reason we are performing
nn.BatchNorm1d(1000) is because the output dimension is 1,000 for each image
(that is, a 1-dimensional output for the hidden layer). 
Furthermore, in the forward method, we are passing the output of the hidden
layer values through batch normalization, prior to ReLU activation.
The variation in the training and validation datasets' accuracy and loss values
over increasing epochs is as follows:

--- Strana 179 ---
Here, we can see that the model was trained in a manner very similar to how
it was trained when the input values did not have a very small range.
Let's understand the distribution of hidden layer values and the weight
distribution, as seen in the previous section:

--- Strana 180 ---
Here, we can see that the hidden layer values have a larger distribution when
we have batch normalization and that the weights connecting the hidden
layer to the output layer have a smaller distribution. The results in the model
learning as effectively as it could in the previous sections.
Batch normalization helps considerably when training deep neural networks. It helps us
avoid gradients becoming so small that the weights are barely updated.
Note that in the preceding scenario, we attained high validation accuracy
sooner than when there was no batch normalization at all. This could have
been the result of normalizing the intermediate layers, resulting in fewer
chances of saturation occurring in the weights. However, the issue of
overfitting is yet to be fixed. We will look at this next.
The concept of overfitting
So far, we've seen that the accuracy of the training dataset is typically more
than 95%, while the accuracy of the validation dataset is ~89%.
Essentially, this indicates that the model does not generalize as much on
unseen datasets since it can learn from the training dataset. This also

--- Strana 181 ---
indicates that the model is learning all the possible edge cases for the
training dataset; these can't be applied to the validation dataset.
Having high accuracy on the training dataset and considerably lower accuracy on the
validation dataset refers to the scenario of overfitting.
Some of the typical strategies that are employed to reduce the effect of
overfitting are as follows:
Dropout
Regularization
We will look at what impact they have in the following sections.
Impact of adding dropout
We have already learned that whenever loss.backward() is calculated, a weight
update happens. Typically, we would have hundreds of thousands of
parameters within a network and thousands of data points to train our model
on. This gives us the possibility that while the majority of parameters help in
training the model reasonably, certain parameters can be fine-tuned for the
training images, resulting in their values being dictated by only a few images
in the training dataset. This, in turn, results in the training data having a high
accuracy but not that the validation dataset generalizes.
Dropout is a mechanism that randomly chooses a specified percentage of
activations and drops them to 0. In the next iteration, another random set of
hidden units are switched off. This way, the neural network does not
optimize for edge cases as the network does not get that many opportunities
to adjust the weight to memorize for edge cases (given that the weight is not
updated in each iteration). 
Note that, during prediction, dropout doesn't need to be applied since this
mechanism can only be applied to a trained model. Furthermore, the weights
will be downscaled automatically during prediction (evaluation) to adjust for
the magnitude of the weights (since all the weights are present during
prediction time).

--- Strana 182 ---
Usually, there are cases where the layers behave differently during training
and validation – as you saw in the case of dropout. For this reason, you must
specify the mode for the model upfront using one of two methods –
model.train() to let the model know it is in training mode and model.eval() to let
it know that it is in evaluation mode. If we don't do this, we might get
unexpected results. For example, in the following image, notice how the
model (which contains dropout) gives us different predictions on the same
input when in training mode. However, when the same model is in eval
mode, it will suppress the dropout layer and return the same output:

--- Strana 183 ---
While defining the architecture, Dropout is specified in
the get_model function as follows:
The following code is available as Impact_of_dropout.ipynb in the Chapter03 folder of this
book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt . Note that we are not providing all
the steps for brevity and that only the steps where there is a change from the code we
went through in the Batch size of 32 section will be discussed in the following code. We
encourage you to refer to the notebooks in this book's GitHub repository while
executing the code. 

--- Strana 184 ---
def get_model():
    model = nn.Sequential(
                nn.Dropout(0.25),
                nn.Linear(28 * 28, 1000),
                nn.ReLU(),
                nn.Dropout(0.25),
                nn.Linear(1000, 10)
            ).to(device)
    loss_fn = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
    optimizer = Adam(model.parameters(), lr=1e-3)
    return model, loss_fn, optimizer
Note that in the preceding code, Dropout is specified before linear activation
is. This specifies that a fixed percentage of the weights in the linear
activation layer won't be updated.
Once the model training is completed, as in the Batch size of 32 section, the
loss and accuracy values of the training and validation datasets will be as
follows:
Note that in the preceding scenario, the delta between the training and
validation datasets' accuracy is not as large as we saw in the previous
scenario, thus resulting in a scenario that has less overfitting. 

--- Strana 185 ---
Impact of regularization
Apart from the training accuracy being much higher than the validation
accuracy, one other feature of overfitting is that certain weight values will be
much higher than the other weight values. High weight values can be a
symptom of the model learning very well on training data (essentially, a rot
learning on what it has seen).
While dropout is a mechanism that's used so that the weight values aren't
updated as frequently, regularization is another mechanism we can use for
this purpose.
Regularization is a technique in which we penalize the model for having
high weight values. Hence, it is a dual objective function – minimize the loss
of training data, as well as the weight values. In this section, we will learn
about two types of regularization:
L1 regularization
L2 regularization
The following code is available as Impact_of_regularization.ipynb in the Chapter03 folder of
this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt . Note that we are not providing
all the steps for brevity and that only the steps where there is a change from the code we
went through in the Batch size of 32 section will be discussed in the following code. We
encourage you to refer to the notebooks in this book's GitHub repository while
executing the code.
Let's get started!
L1 regularization
L1 regularization is calculated as follows:

--- Strana 186 ---
The first part of the preceding formula refers to the categorical cross-entropy
loss that we have been using for optimization so far, while the second part
refers to the absolute sum of the weight values of the model.
Note that L1 regularization ensures that it penalizes for the high absolute
values of weights by incorporating them in the loss value calculation. 
 refers to the weightage that we associate with the regularization (weight
minimization) loss.
L1 regularization is implemented while training the model, as follows:
def train_batch(x, y, model, opt, loss_fn):
    model.train()
    prediction = model(x)
    l1_regularization = 0
    for param in model.parameters():
        l1_regularization += torch.norm(param,1)
    batch_loss = loss_fn(prediction, y)+0.0001*l1_regularization
    batch_loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    return batch_loss.item()
In the preceding code, we have enforced regularization on the weights and
biases across all the layers by initializing l1_regularization.
torch.norm(param,1) provides the absolute value of the weight and bias values
across layers.
Furthermore, we have a very small weightage (0.0001) associated with the
sum of the absolute value of the parameters across layers.
Once we execute the remaining code, as in the Batch size of 32 section, the
training and validation datasets' loss and accuracy values over increasing
epochs will be as follows:

--- Strana 187 ---
Here, we can see that the difference between the training and validation
datasets' accuracy is not as high as it was without L1 regularization.
L2 regularization
L2 regularization is calculated as follows:
The first part of the preceding formula refers to the categorical cross-entropy
loss obtained, while the second part refers to the squared sum of the weight
values of the model.
Similar to L1 regularization, we are penalizing for high weight values by
having the sum of squared values of weights incorporated in the loss value
calculation.

--- Strana 188 ---
 refers to the weightage that we associate with the regularization (weight
minimization) loss.
L2 regularization is implemented while training the model as follows:
def train_batch(x, y, model, opt, loss_fn):
    model.train()
    prediction = model(x)
    l2_regularization = 0
    for param in model.parameters():
        l2_regularization += torch.norm(param,2)
    batch_loss = loss_fn(prediction, y) + 0.01*l2_regularization
    batch_loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    return batch_loss.item()
Note that in the preceding code, the regularization parameter, 
 (0.01), is
slightly higher than in L1 regularization since the weights are generally
between -1 to 1 and a square of them would result in even smaller values.
Multiplying them by an even smaller number, as we did in L1 regularization,
would result in us having very little weightage for regularization in the
overall loss calculation.
Once we execute the remaining code, as in the Batch size of 32 section, the
training and validation datasets' loss and accuracy values over increasing
epochs will be as follows:

--- Strana 189 ---
Here, we can see that L2 regularization has also resulted in the validation
and training datasets' accuracy and loss values being close to each other.
Finally, let's compare the weight values without regularization and with L1/
L2 regularization so that we can validate our understanding that certain
weights vary considerably when it comes to memorizing the values for edge
cases. We'll do this by going through the distribution of weights across
layers, as shown in the following image:

--- Strana 190 ---

--- Strana 191 ---
Here, we can see that the distribution of parameters is very small when we
perform L1/ L2 regularization compared to performing no regularization.
This potentially reduces the chances that weights get updated for edge cases.
Summary
We started this chapter by learning about how an image is represented. Next,
we learned about how scaling, the value of the learning rate, our choice of
optimizer, and the batch size help improve the accuracy and speed of
training. We then learned about how batch normalization helps in increasing
the speed of training and addresses the issues of very small or large values in
hidden layer. Next, we learned about scheduling the learning rate to increase
accuracy further. We then proceeded to understand the concept of overfitting
and learned about how dropout and L1 and L2 regularization help us avoid
overfitting.
Now that we have learned about image classification using a deep neural
network, as well as the various hyperparameters that help train a model, in
the next chapter, we will learn about how what we've learned in this chapter
can fail and how to address this using convolutional neural networks.
Questions
1. What happens if the input values are not scaled in the input dataset?
2. What could happen if the background has a white pixel color while the
content has a black pixel color when you're training a neural network?
3. What impact does the batch size have on the model's training time, as
well as its accuracy over a given number of epochs?
4. What impact does the input value range have on the weight distribution
at the end of the training?
5. How does batch normalization help improve accuracy?
6. How do we know if a model has overfitted on training data?
7. How does regularization help in avoiding overfitting?
8. How do L1 and L2 regularization differ?

--- Strana 192 ---
9. How does dropout help in reducing overfitting?

--- Strana 193 ---
Section 2 - Object Classification and
Detection
Armed with an understanding of neural network (NN) basics, in this
section, we will discover more complex blocks of NNs that build on top of
these basics to solve more complex vision-related issues, including object
detection, image classification, and many more problems besides.
This section comprises the following chapters:
Chapter 4, Introducing Convolutional Neural Networks
Chapter 5, Transfer Learning for Image Classification
Chapter 6, Practical Aspects of Image Classification 
Chapter 7, Basics of Object Detection
Chapter 8, Advanced Object Detection
Chapter 9, Image Segmentation
Chapter 10, Applications of Object Detection and Segmentation

--- Strana 194 ---
Introducing Convolutional Neural
Networks
So far, we've learned how to build deep neural networks and the impact of
tweaking their various hyperparameters. In this chapter, we will learn about
where traditional deep neural networks do not work. We'll then learn about
the inner workings of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) by using a
toy example before understanding some of their major hyperparameters,
including strides, pooling, and filters. Next, we will leverage CNNs, along
with various data augmentation techniques, to solve the issue of traditional
deep neural networks not having good accuracy. Following this, we will
learn about what the outcome of a feature learning process in a CNN looks
like. Finally, we'll put our learning together to solve a use case: we'll be
classifying an image by stating whether the image contains a dog or a cat.
By doing this, we'll be able to understand how the accuracy of prediction
varies by the amount of data available for training.
The following topics will be covered in this chapter:
The problem with traditional deep neural networks
Building blocks of a CNN
Implementing a CNN
Classifying images using deep CNNs
Implementing data augmentation
Visualizing the outcome of feature learning
Building a CNN for classifying real-world images
Let's get started!
The problem with traditional deep
neural networks

--- Strana 195 ---
Before we dive into CNNs, let's look at the major problem that's faced when
using traditional deep neural networks.
Let's reconsider the model we built on the Fashion-MNIST dataset in Chapter
3, Building a Deep Neural Network with PyTorch. We will fetch a random
image and predict the class that corresponds to that image, as follows:
The code for this section is available as Issues_with_image_translation.ipynb in the Chapter04
folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt . Note that the entire
code is available in GitHub and that only the additional code corresponding to the issue
of image translation will be discussed here for brevity. We strongly encourage you to
refer to the notebooks in this book's GitHub repository while executing the code.
1. Fetch a random image from the available training images:
# Note that you should run the code in 
# Batch size of 32 section in Chapter 3 
# before running the following code
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
# ix = np.random.randint(len(tr_images))
ix = 24300
plt.imshow(tr_images[ix], cmap='gray')
plt.title(fmnist.classes[tr_targets[ix]])
The preceding code results in the following output:
2. Pass the image through the trained model (continue using the model
we trained in the Batch size of 32 section of Chapter 3, Building a Deep
Neural Network with PyTorch).

--- Strana 196 ---
Preprocess the image so it goes through the same pre-processing
steps we performed while building the model:
img = tr_images[ix]/255.
img = img.view(28*28)
img = img.to(device)
Extract the probabilities associated with the various classes:
np_output = model(img).cpu().detach().numpy()
np.exp(np_output)/np.sum(np.exp(np_output))
The preceding code results in the following output:
From the preceding output, we can see that the highest probability is
for the 1st index, which is of the Trouser class.
3. Translate (roll/slide) the image multiple times (one pixel at a time) from
a translation of 5 pixels to the left to 5 pixels to the right and store the
predictions in a list.
Create a list that stores predictions:
preds = []
Create a loop that translates (rolls) an image from -5 pixels (5 pixels
to the left) to +5 pixels (5 pixels to the right) of the original position
(which is at the center of the image):
for px in range(-5,6):
In the preceding code, we specified 6 as the upper bound, even
though we are interested in translating until +5 pixels, since the
output of the range would be from -5 to +5 when (-5,6) is the
specified range.
Pre-process the image, as we did in step 2:

--- Strana 197 ---
    img = tr_images[ix]/255.
    img = img.view(28, 28)
Roll the image by a value equal to px within the for loop:
    img2 = np.roll(img, px, axis=1)
In the preceding code, we specified axis=1 since we want the
image pixels to be moving horizontally and not vertically.
Store the rolled image as a tensor object and register it to device:
    img3 = torch.Tensor(img2).view(28*28).to(device)
Pass img3 through the trained model to predict the class of the
translated (rolled) image and append it to the list that is storing
predictions for various translations:
    np_output = model(img3).cpu().detach().numpy()
    preds.append(np.exp(np_output)/np.sum(np.exp(np_output)))
4. Visualize the predictions of the model for all the translations (-5 pixels
to +5 pixels):
import seaborn as sns
fig, ax = plt.subplots(1,1, figsize=(12,10))
plt.title('Probability of each class \
for various translations')
sns.heatmap(np.array(preds), annot=True, ax=ax, fmt='.2f', \
            xticklabels=fmnist.classes, \
            yticklabels=[str(i)+str(' pixels') \
                         for i in range(-5,6)], cmap='gray')
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 198 ---
There was no change in the image's content since we only translated the images from 5
pixels to the left and 5 pixels to the right. However, the predicted class of the image
changed when the translation was beyond 2 pixels. This is because while the model was
being trained, the content in all the training and testing images was at the center. This
differs from the preceding scenario where we tested with translated images that are off-
center, resulting in an incorrectly predicted class.
Now that we have learned about a scenario where a traditional neural
network fails, we will learn about how CNNs help address this problem. But

--- Strana 199 ---
before we do this, we will learn about the building blocks of a CNN.
Building blocks of a CNN
CNNs are the most prominent architectures that are used when working on
images. CNNs address the major limitations of deep neural networks that we
saw in the previous section. Besides image classification, they also help with
object detection, image segmentation, GANs, and many more – essentially,
wherever we use images. Furthermore, there are different ways of
constructing a convolutional neural network, and there are multiple pre-
trained models that leverage CNNs to perform various tasks. Starting with
this chapter, we will be using CNNs extensively.
In the upcoming subsections, we will understand the fundamental building
blocks of a CNN, which are as follows:
Convolutions
Filters
Strides and padding
Pooling
Let's get started!
Convolution
A convolution is basically multiplication between two matrices. As you saw
in the previous chapter, matrix multiplication is a key ingredient of training a
neural network. (We perform matrix multiplication when we calculate
hidden layer values – which is a matrix multiplication of the input values
and weight values connecting the input to the hidden layer. Similarly, we
perform matrix multiplication to calculate output layer values.)
To ensure we have a solid understanding of the convolution process, let's go
through the following example.

--- Strana 200 ---
Let's assume we have two matrices we can use to perform convolution.
Here is Matrix A:
Here is Matrix B:
While performing the convolution operation, you are sliding Matrix B (the
smaller matrix) over Matrix A (the bigger matrix). Furthermore, we are
performing element to element multiplication between Matrix A and Matrix
B, as follows:
1. Multiply {1,2,5,6} of the bigger matrix by {1,2,3,4} of the smaller
matrix:
1*1 + 2*2 + 5*3 + 6*4 = 44
2. Multiply {2,3,6,7} of the bigger matrix by {1,2,3,4} of the smaller
matrix:
2*1 + 3*2 + 6*3 + 7*4 = 54
3. Multiply {3,4,7,8} of the bigger matrix by {1,2,3,4} of the smaller
matrix:
3*1 + 4*2 + 7*3 + 8*4 = 64

--- Strana 201 ---
4. Multiply {5,6,9,10} of the bigger matrix by {1,2,3,4} of the smaller
matrix:
5*1 + 6*2 + 9*3 + 10*4 = 84
5. Multiply {6,7,10,11} of the bigger matrix by {1,2,3,4} of the smaller
matrix:
6*1 + 7*2 + 10*3 + 11*4 = 94
6. Multiply {7,8,11,12} of the bigger matrix by {1,2,3,4} of the smaller
matrix:
7*1 + 8*2 + 11*3 + 12*4 = 104
7. Multiply {9,10,13,14} of the bigger matrix by {1,2,3,4} of the smaller
matrix:
9*1 + 10*2 + 13*3 + 14*4 = 124
8. Multiply {10,11,14,15} of the bigger matrix by {1,2,3,4} of the smaller
matrix:
10*1 + 11*2 + 14*3 + 15*4 = 134
9. Multiply {11,12,15,16} of the bigger matrix by {1,2,3,4} of the smaller
matrix:
11*1 + 12*2 + 15*3 + 16*4 = 144
The result of performing the preceding operations is as follows:
The smaller matrix is typically called a filter or a kernel, while the bigger
matrix is the original image. 

--- Strana 202 ---
Filter
A filter is a matrix of weights that is initialized randomly at the start. The
model learns the optimal weight values of a filter over increasing epochs. 
The concept of filters brings us to two different aspects:
What the filters learn about
How filters are represented
In general, the more filters there are in a CNN, the more features of an image
that the model can learn about. We will learn about what various filters learn
in the Visualizing the filters' learning section of this chapter. For now, we'll
ensure that we have an intermediate understanding that the filters learn about
different features present in the image. For example, a certain filter might
learn about the ears of a cat and provide high activation (a matrix
multiplication value) when the part of the image it is convolving with
contains the ear of a cat.
In the previous section, we learned that when we convolved one filter that
has a size of 2 x 2 with a matrix that has a size of 4 x 4, we got an output that
is 3 x 3 in dimension.
However, if 10 different filters multiply the bigger matrix (original image),
the result is 10 sets of the 3 x 3 output matrices.
In the preceding case, a 4 x 4 image is convolved with 10 filters that are 2 x 2 in size,
resulting in 3 x 3 x 10 output values. Essentially, when an image is convolved by multiple
filters, the output has as many channels as there are filters that the image is convolved
with.
Furthermore, in a scenario where we are dealing with color images where
there are three channels, the filter that is convolving with the original image
would also have three channels, resulting in a single scalar output per
convolution. Also, if the filters are convolving with an intermediate output –
let's say of 64 x 112 x 112 in shape – the filter would have 64 channels to
fetch a scalar output. In addition, if there are 512 filters that are convolving

--- Strana 203 ---
with the output that was obtained in the intermediate layer, the output post
convolution with 512 filters would be 512 x 111 x 111 in shape.
To solidify our understanding of the output of filters further, let's take a look
at the following diagram:
In the preceding diagram, we can see that the input image is multiplied by
the filters that have the same depth as that of the input (which the filters are

--- Strana 204 ---
convolving with) and that the number of channels in the output of a
convolution is as many as there are filters.
Strides and padding 
In the previous section, each filter strode across the image – one column and
one row at a time (after exhausting all possible columns by the end of the
image). This also resulted in the output size being 1 pixel less than the input
image size – both in terms of height and width. This results in a partial loss
of information and can affect the possibility of us adding the output of the
convolution operation to the original image (this is known as residual
addition and will be discussed in detail in the next chapter).
In this section, we will learn about how strides and padding influence the
output shape of convolutions.
Strides
Let's understand the impact of stride by leveraging the same example that we
saw in the Filter section. Furthermore, we'll stride Matrix B with a stride of
2 over Matrix A. The output of convolution with a stride of 2 is as follows:
1. {1,2,5,6} of the bigger matrix is multiplied by {1,2,3,4} of the smaller
matrix:
1*1 + 2*2 + 5*3 + 6*4 = 44
1. {3,4,7,8} of the bigger matrix is multiplied by {1,2,3,4} of the smaller
matrix:
3*1 + 4*2 + 7*3 + 8*4 = 64
7. {9,10,13,14} of the bigger matrix is multiplied by {1,2,3,4} of the
smaller matrix:
9*1 + 10*2 + 13*3 + 14*4 = 124

--- Strana 205 ---
8. {11,12,15,16} of the bigger matrix is multiplied by {1,2,3,4} of the
smaller matrix:
11*1 + 12*2 + 15*3 + 16*4 = 144
The result of performing the preceding operations is as follows:
Note that the preceding output has a lower dimension compared to the
scenario where the stride was 1 (where the output shape was 3 x 3) since we
now have a stride of 2.
Padding
In the preceding case, we could not multiply the leftmost elements of the
filter by the rightmost elements of the image. If we were to perform such
matrix multiplication, we would pad the image with zeros. This would
ensure that we can perform element to element multiplication of all the
elements within an image with a filter.
Let's understand padding by using the same example we used in the
Convolution section.
Once we add padding on top of Matrix A, the revised version of Matrix A
will look as follows:

--- Strana 206 ---
From the preceding matrix, we can see that we have padded Matrix A with
zeros and that the convolution with Matrix B will not result in the output
dimension being smaller than the input's dimension. This aspect comes in
handy when we are working on residual network where we must add the
output of the convolution to the original image.
Once we've done this, we can perform activation on top of the convolution
operation's output. We could use any of the activation functions we saw in Ch
apter 3, Building a Deep Neural Network with PyTorch, for this.
Pooling
Pooling aggregates information in a small patch. Imagine a scenario where
the output of convolution activation is as follows:
The max pooling for this patch is 4. Here, we have considered the elements
in this pool of elements and have taken the maximum value across all the
elements present.
Similarly, let's understand the max pooling for a bigger matrix:
In the preceding case, if the pooling stride has a length of 2, the max pooling
operation is calculated as follows, where we divide the input image by a
stride of 2 (that is, we have divided the image into 2 x 2 divisions):

--- Strana 207 ---
For the four sub-portions of the matrix, the maximum values in the pool of
elements are as follows:
In practice, it is not necessary to always have a stride of 2; this has just been
used for illustration purposes here.
Other variants of pooling are sum and average pooling. However, in
practice, max pooling is used more often.
Note that by the end of performing the convolution and pooling operations,
the size of the original matrix is reduced from 4 x 4 to 2 x 2. In a realistic
scenario, if the original image is of shape 200 x 200 and the filter is of shape
3 x 3, the output of the convolution operation would be 198 x 198. After
that, the output of the pooling operation with a stride of 2 is 99 X 99.
Putting them all together
So far, we have learned about convolution, filters, and pooling, and their
impact in reducing the dimension of an image. Now, we will learn about
another critical component of a CNN – the flatten layer (fully connected
layer) – before putting the three pieces we have learned about together.
To understand the flattening process, we'll take the output of the pooling
layer in the previous section and flatten the output. The output of flattening
the pooling layer is as follows:

--- Strana 208 ---
{6, 8, 14, 16}
By doing this, we'll see that the flatten layer can be treated equivalent to the
input layer (where we flattened the input image into a 784-dimensional input
in Chapter 3, Building a Deep Neural Network with PyTorch). Once the flatten
layer's (fully connected layer) values have been obtained, we can pass it
through the hidden layer and then obtain the output for predicting the class
of an image.
The overall flow of a CNN is as follows:
In the preceding image, we can see the overall flow of a CNN model, where
we are passing an image through convolution via multiple filters and then
pooling (and in the preceding case, repeating the convolution and pooling
process twice), before flattening the output of the final pooling layer. This
forms the feature learning part of the preceding image.
The operations of convolution and pooling constitute the feature learning
section as filters help in extracting relevant features from images and
pooling helps in aggregating information and thereby reducing the number
of nodes at the flatten layer. (If we directly flatten the input image (which is
300 x 300 pixels in size, for example), we are dealing with 90K input values.

--- Strana 209 ---
If we have 90K input pixel values and 100K nodes in a hidden layer, we are
looking at ~9 billion parameters, which is huge in terms of computation.)
Convolution and pooling help in fetching a flattened layer that has a much
smaller representation than the original image.
Finally, the last part of the classification is similar to the way we classified
images in Chapter 3, Building a Deep Neural Network in PyTorch, where we
had a hidden layer and then obtained the output layer.
How convolution and pooling help in image
translation
When we perform pooling, we can consider the output of the operation as an
abstraction of a region (a small patch). This phenomenon comes in handy,
especially when images are being translated.
Think of a scenario where an image is translated by 1 pixel to the left. Once
we perform convolution, activation, and pooling on top of it, we'll have
reduced the dimension of the image (due to pooling), which means that a
fewer number of pixels store the majority of the information from the
original image. Moreover, given that pooling stores information of a region
(patch), the information within a pixel of the pooled image would not vary,
even if the original image is translated by 1 unit. This is because the
maximum value of that region is likely to get captured in the pooled image.
Convolution and pooling cam also help us with the receptive field. To
understand the receptive field, let's imagine a scenario where we perform a
convolution pooling operation twice on an image that is 100 x 100 in shape.
The output at the end of the two convolution pooling operations is of the
shape 25 x 25 (if the convolution operation was done with padding). Each
cell in the 25 x 25 output now corresponds to a larger 4 x 4 portion of the
original image. Thus, because of the convolution and pooling operations,
each cell in the resulting image corresponds to a patch of the original image.

--- Strana 210 ---
Now that we have learned about the core components of a CNN, let's apply
them all to a toy example to understand how they work together.
Implementing a CNN 
A CNN is one of the foundational blocks of computer vision techniques, and
it is important for you to have a solid understanding of how they work.
While we already know that a CNN constitutes convolution, pooling,
flattening, and then the final classification layer, in this section, we will
understand the various operations that occur during the forward pass of a
CNN through code.
To gain a solid understanding of this, first, we will build a CNN architecture
on a toy example using PyTorch and then match the output by building the
feed-forward propagation from scratch in Python.
Building a CNN-based architecture using PyTorch
The CNN architecture will differ from the neural network architecture that
we built in the previous chapter in that a CNN constitutes the following in
addition to what a typical vanilla deep neural network would have:
Convolution operation
Pooling operation
Flattening layer
In the following code, we will build a CNN model on a toy dataset, as
follows:
The code for this section is available as CNN_working_details.ipynb in the Chapter04 folder of
this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1. First, we need to import the relevant libraries:
import torch
from torch import nn
from torch.utils.data import TensorDataset, Dataset, DataLoader
from torch.optim import SGD, Adam

--- Strana 211 ---
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
from torchvision import datasets
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
2. Then, we need to create the dataset using the following steps:
X_train = torch.tensor([[[[1,2,3,4],[2,3,4,5], \
                          [5,6,7,8],[1,3,4,5]]], \
                [[[-1,2,3,-4],[2,-3,4,5], \
            [-5,6,-7,8],[-1,-3,-4,-5]]]]).to(device).float()
X_train /= 8
y_train = torch.tensor([0,1]).to(device).float()
Note that PyTorch expects inputs to be of the shape N x C x H x W, where N is the
number (batch size) of images, C is the number of channels, H is the height, and W is the
width of the image.
Here, we are scaling the input dataset so that it has a range between
-1 to +1 by dividing the input data by the maximum input value; that
is, 8.
The shape of the input dataset is (2,1,4,4) since there are two data
points, where each is 4 x 4 in shape and has 1 channel.
3. Define the model architecture:
def get_model():
    model = nn.Sequential(
                nn.Conv2d(1, 1, kernel_size=3),
                nn.MaxPool2d(2),
                nn.ReLU(),
                nn.Flatten(),
                nn.Linear(1, 1),
                nn.Sigmoid(),
            ).to(device)
    loss_fn = nn.BCELoss()
    optimizer = Adam(model.parameters(), lr=1e-3)
    return model, loss_fn, optimizer
Note that in the preceding model, we are specifying that there is 1
channel in the input and that we are extracting 1 channel from the
output post convolution (that is, we have 1 filter with a size of 3 x 3)
using the nn.Conv2d method. After this, we perform max pooling using
nn.MaxPool2d and ReLU activation (using nn.Relu()) prior to flattening
and connecting to the final layer, which has one output per data
point.

--- Strana 212 ---
Furthermore, note that the loss function is binary cross-entropy loss
(nn.BCELoss()) since the output is from a binary class. We are also
specifying that the optimization will be done using the Adam
optimizer with a learning rate of 0.001.
4. Summarize the architecture of the model using the summary method that's
available in the torch_summary package post fetching our model, loss
function (loss_fn), and optimizer by calling the get_model function:
!pip install torch_summary
from torchsummary import summary
model, loss_fn, optimizer = get_model()
summary(model, X_train);
The preceding code results in the following output:
Let's understand the reason why each layer contains so many
parameters. The arguments of the Conv2d class are as follows:

--- Strana 213 ---
In the preceding case, we are specifying that the size of the
convolving kernel (kernel_size) is 3 and that the number of out_channels
is 1 (essentially, the number of filters is 1), where the number of
initial (input) channels is 1. Thus, for each input image, we are
convolving a filter of shape 3 x 3 on a shape of 1 x 4 x 4, which
results in an output of the shape 1 x 2 x 2. There are 10 parameters
since we are learning the nine weight parameters (3 x 3) and the one
bias of the convolving kernel. For the MaxPool2d, ReLU, and Flatten
layers, there are no parameters as these are operations that are
performed on top of the output of the convolution layer; no weights
or biases are involved.
The linear layer has two parameters – one weight and one bias –
which means there's a total of 12 parameters (10 from the
convolution operation and two from the linear layer).
5. Train the model using the same model training code we used in Chapter
3, Building a Deep Neural Network with PyTorch, where we defined the
function that will train on batches of data (train_batch). Then, fetch the
DataLoader and train it on batches of data over 2,000 epochs (we're
only using 2,000 because this is a small toy dataset), as follows:
Define the function that will train on batches of data (train_batch):
def train_batch(x, y, model, opt, loss_fn):
    model.train()
    prediction = model(x)
    batch_loss = loss_fn(prediction.squeeze(0), y)

--- Strana 214 ---
    batch_loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    return batch_loss.item()
Define the training DataLoader by specifying the dataset using the
TensorDataset method and then loading it using DataLoader:
trn_dl = DataLoader(TensorDataset(X_train, y_train))
Note that, given we are not modifying the input data by a lot, we
won't be building a class separately, instead leveraging the
TensorDataset method directly, which provides an object that
corresponds to the input data.
Train the model over 2,000 epochs:
for epoch in range(2000):
    for ix, batch in enumerate(iter(trn_dl)):
        x, y = batch
        batch_loss = train_batch(x, y, model, optimizer, \
                                 loss_fn)
With the preceding code, we have trained the CNN model on our toy
dataset.
6. Perform a forward pass on top of the first data point:
model(X_train[:1])
The output of the preceding code is 0.1625.
Note that you might have a different output value owing to a different random weight
initialization when you execute the preceding code. However, you should be able to
match the output against what you get in the next section.
In the next section, we will learn about how forward propagation in CNNs
works so that we can obtain a value of 0.1625 on the first data point.
Forward propagating the output in Python
Before we proceed, note that this section is only here to help you clearly
understand how CNNs work. We don't need to perform the following steps

--- Strana 215 ---
in a real-world scenario:
1. Extract the weights and biases of the convolution and linear layers of
the architecture that's been defined, as follows:
Extract the various layers of the model:
list(model.children())
This results in the following output:
Extract the layers among all the layers of the model that have
the weight attribute associated with them:
(cnn_w, cnn_b), (lin_w, lin_b) = [(layer.weight.data, \
                            layer.bias.data) for layer in \
                            list(model.children()) \
                                  if hasattr(layer,'weight')]
In the preceding code, hasattr(layer,'weight') returns a boolean,
regardless of whether the layer contains the weight attribute.
Note that the convolution (Conv2d) layer and the Linear layer at the
end are the only layers that contain parameters, which is why we
saved them as cnn_w and cnn_b for the Conv2d layer and
lin_w and lin_b for the Linear layer, respectively.
The shape of cnn_w is 1 x 1 x 3 x 3 since we have initialized one
filter, which has one channel and a dimension of 3 x 3. cnn_b has a
shape of 1 as it corresponds to one filter.
2. To perform the cnn_w convolution operation over the input value, we
must initialize a matrix of zeros for sumproduct (sumprod) where the

--- Strana 216 ---
height is input height - filter height + 1 and the width is width - filter
width + 1:
h_im, w_im = X_train.shape[2:]
h_conv, w_conv = cnn_w.shape[2:]
sumprod = torch.zeros((h_im - h_conv + 1, w_im - w_conv + 1))
3. Now, let's fill sumprod by convoluting the filter (cnn_w) across the first
input and summing up the filter bias term (cnn_b) after reshaping the
filter shape from a 1 x 1 x 3 x 3 shape to a 3 x 3 shape:
for i in range(h_im - h_conv + 1):
    for j in range(w_im - w_conv + 1):
        img_subset = X_train[0, 0, i:(i+3), j:(j+3)]
        model_filter = cnn_w.reshape(3,3)
        val = torch.sum(img_subset*model_filter) + cnn_b
        sumprod[i,j] = val
In the preceding code, img_subset stores the portion of the input that
we would be convolving with the filter and hence we stride through it
across the possible columns and then rows.
Furthermore, given that the input is 4 x 4 in shape and the filter is 3 x
3 in shape, the output is 2 x 2 in shape.
At this stage, the output of sumprod is as follows:
4. Perform the ReLU operation on top of the output and then fetch the
maximum value of the pool (MaxPooling), as follows:
ReLU is performed on top of sumprod in Python as follows:
sumprod.clamp_min_(0)
Note that we are clamping the output to a minimum of 0 in the
preceding code (which is what ReLU activation does):

--- Strana 217 ---
The output of the pooling layer can be calculated like so:
pooling_layer_output = torch.max(sumprod)
The preceding code results in the following output:
5. Pass the preceding output through linear activation:
intermediate_output_value = pooling_layer_output*lin_w+lin_b
The output of this operation is as follows:
6. Pass the output through the sigmoid operation:
from torch.nn import functional as F # torch library 
# for numpy like functions
print(F.sigmoid(intermediate_output_value))
The preceding code gives us the following output:
Note that we perform sigmoid and not softmax since the loss function is binary
cross-entropy and not categorical cross-entropy like it was in the Fashion-
MNIST dataset.
The preceding code gives us the same output we obtained using PyTorch's
feedforward method, thus strengthening our understanding of how CNNs
work.

--- Strana 218 ---
Now that we have learned about how CNNs work, in the next section, we'll
apply this to the Fashion-MNIST dataset and see how it fares on translated
images.
Classifying images using deep
CNNs
So far, we have seen that the traditional neural network predicts incorrectly
for translated images. This needs to be addressed because in real-world
scenarios, various augmentations will need to be applied, such as
translatation and rotation, that were not seen during the training phase. In
this section, we will understand how CNNs address the problem of incorrect
predictions when image translation happens on images in the Fashion-
MNIST dataset.
The pre-processing portion of the Fashion-MNIST dataset remains the same
as in the previous chapter, except that when we reshape (.view) the input data,
instead of flattening the input to 28 x 28 = 784 dimensions, we reshape the
input to a shape of (1,28,28) for each image (remember, channels are to be
specified first, followed by their height and width, in PyTorch):
The code for this section is available as CNN_on_FashionMNIST.ipynb in the Chapter04 folder of
this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt . Note that the entirety of the
code is available in GitHub and that only the additional code corresponding to defining
the model architecture is provided here for brevity. We strongly encourage you to refer
to the notebooks in this book's GitHub repository while executing the code.
1. Import the necessary packages:
from torchvision import datasets
from torch.utils.data import Dataset, DataLoader
import torch
import torch.nn as nn
device = "cuda" if torch.cuda.is_available() else "cpu"
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
data_folder = '~/data/FMNIST' # This can be any directory you 
# want to download FMNIST to
fmnist = datasets.FashionMNIST(data_folder, download=True, \

--- Strana 219 ---
                                        train=True)
tr_images = fmnist.data
tr_targets = fmnist.targets
2. The Fashion-MNIST dataset class is defined as follows. Remember,
the Dataset object will always need the __init__, __getitem__, and __len__
methods we've defined:
class FMNISTDataset(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, x, y):
        x = x.float()/255
        x = x.view(-1,1,28,28)
        self.x, self.y = x, y 
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        x, y = self.x[ix], self.y[ix] 
        return x.to(device), y.to(device)
    def __len__(self): 
        return len(self.x)
The preceding line of code in bold is where we are reshaping each
input image (differently to what we did in the previous chapter) since
we are providing data to a CNN that expects each input to have a
shape of batch size x channels x height x width.
3. The CNN model architecture is defined as follows:
from torch.optim import SGD, Adam
def get_model():
    model = nn.Sequential(
                nn.Conv2d(1, 64, kernel_size=3),
                nn.MaxPool2d(2),
                nn.ReLU(),
                nn.Conv2d(64, 128, kernel_size=3),
                nn.MaxPool2d(2),
                nn.ReLU(),
                nn.Flatten(),
                nn.Linear(3200, 256),
                nn.ReLU(),
                nn.Linear(256, 10)
            ).to(device)
    loss_fn = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
    optimizer = Adam(model.parameters(), lr=1e-3)
    return model, loss_fn, optimizer
A summary of the model can be created using the following code:
!pip install torch_summary
from torchsummary import summary
model, loss_fn, optimizer = get_model()
summary(model, torch.zeros(1,1,28,28));

--- Strana 220 ---
This results in the following output:
To solidify our understanding of CNNs, let's understand the reason why the
number of parameters have been set the way they have in the preceding
output:
Layer 1: Given that there are 64 filters with a kernel size of 3, we have
64 x 3 x 3 weights and 64 x 1 biases, resulting in a total of 640
parameters.
Layer 4: Given that there are 128 filters with a kernel size of 3, we
have 128 x 64 x3 x 3 weights and 128 x 1 biases, resulting in a total of
73,856 parameters.
Layer 8: Given that a layer with 3,200 nodes is getting connected to
another layer with 256 nodes, we have a total of 3,200 x 256 weights +
256 biases, resulting in a total of 819,456 parameters.
Layer 10: Given that a layer with 256 nodes is getting connected to a
layer with 10 nodes, we have a total of 256 x 10 weights and 10 biases,
resulting in a total of 2,570 parameters.
Now, we train the model, just like we trained it in the previous chapter. The full code is
available in this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 

--- Strana 221 ---
Once the model has been trained, you'll notice that the variation of accuracy
and loss over the training and test datasets is as follows:
Note that in the preceding scenario, the accuracy of the validation dataset is
~92% within the first five epochs, which is already better than the accuracy
we saw across various techniques in the previous chapter, even without
additional regularization.
Now, let's translate the image and predict the class of translated images:
1. Translate the image between -5 pixels to +5 pixels and predict its class:
preds = []
ix = 24300
for px in range(-5,6):
    img = tr_images[ix]/255.
    img = img.view(28, 28)
    img2 = np.roll(img, px, axis=1)
    plt.imshow(img2)
    plt.show()
    img3 = torch.Tensor(img2).view(-1,1,28,28).to(device)

--- Strana 222 ---
    np_output = model(img3).cpu().detach().numpy()
    preds.append(np.exp(np_output)/np.sum(np.exp(np_output)))
In the preceding code, we reshaped the image (img3) so that it has a
shape of (-1,1,28,28) so that we can pass the image to a CNN model.
2. Plot the probability of the classes across various translations:
import seaborn as sns
fig, ax = plt.subplots(1,1, figsize=(12,10))
plt.title('Probability of each class for \
various translations')
sns.heatmap(np.array(preds).reshape(11,10), annot=True, \
            ax=ax, fmt='.2f', xticklabels=fmnist.classes, \
            yticklabels=[str(i)+str(' pixels') \
                         for i in range(-5,6)], cmap='gray')
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 223 ---
Note that in this scenario, even when the image was translated by 4 pixels,
the prediction was correct, while in the scenario where we did not use a

--- Strana 224 ---
CNN, the prediction was incorrect when the image was translated by 4
pixels. Furthermore, when the image was translated by 5 pixels, the
probability of "Trouser" dropped considerably. 
As we can see, while CNNs help in addressing the challenge of image
translation, they don't solve the problem at hand completely. We will learn
how to address such a scenario by leveraging data augmentation alongside
CNNs in the next section.
Implementing data augmentation
In the previous scenario, we learned about how CNNs help in predicting the
class of an image when it is translated. While this worked well for
translations of up to 5 pixels, anything beyond that is likely to have a very
low probability for the right class. In this section, we'll learn how to ensure
that we predict the right class, even if the image is translated by a
considerable amount. 
To address this challenge, we'll train the neural network by translating the
input images by 10 pixels randomly (both toward the left and the right) and
passing them to the network. This way, the same image will be processed as
a different image in different passes since it will have had a different amount
of translation in each pass.
Before we leverage augmentations to improve the accuracy of our model
when images are translated, let's learn about the various augmentations that
can be done on top of an image.
Image augmentations
So far, we have learned about the issues image translation can have on a
model's prediction accuracy. However, in the real world, we might encounter
various scenarios, such as the following:
Images are rotated slightly

--- Strana 225 ---
Images are zoomed in/out (scaled)
Some amount of noise is present in the image
Images have low brightness
Images have been flipped
Images have been sheared (one side of the image is more twisted)
A neural network that does not take the preceding scenarios into
consideration won't provide accurate results, just like in the previous section,
where we had a neural network that had not been explicitly trained on
images that had been heavily translated.
Image augmentations come in handy in scenarios where we create more images from a
given image. Each of the created images can vary in terms of rotation, translation, scale,
noise, and brightness. Furthermore, the extent of the variation in each of these
parameters can also vary (for example, translation of a certain image in a given
iteration can be +10 pixels, while in a different iteration, it can be -5 pixels).
The augmenters class in the imgaug package has useful utilities for performing
these augmentations. Let's take a look at the various utilities present in the
augmenters class for generating augmented images from a given image. Some
of the most prominent augmentation techniques are as follows:
Affine transformations
Change brightness
Add noise
Note that PyTorch has a handy image augmentation pipeline in the form of
torchvision.transforms. However, we still opted to introduce a different library primarily
because of the larger variety of options imgaug contains, as well as due to the ease of
explaining augmentations to a new user. You are encouraged to research the torchvision
transforms as an exercise and recreate all the functions that are presented to strengthen
your understanding.
Affine transformations
Affine transformations involve translating, rotating, scaling, and shearing an
image. They can be performed in code using the Affine method that's present
in the augmenters class. Let's take a look at the parameters present in the Affine
method by looking at the following screenshot. Here, we have defined all the
parameters of the Affine method:

--- Strana 226 ---
Some of the important parameters in the Affine method are as follows:
scale specifies the amount of zoom that is to be done for the image
translate_percent specifies the amount of translation as a percentage of
the image's height and width
translate_px specifies the amount of translation as an absolute number of
pixels
rotate specifies the amount of rotation that is to be done on the image
shear specifies the amount of rotation that is to be done on part of the
image
Before we consider ay other parameters, let's understand where scaling,
translation, and rotation come in handy.
The code for this section is available as Image_augmentation.ipynb in the Chapter04 folder of
this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
Fetch a random image from the training dataset for fashionMNIST:
1. Download images from the Fashion-MNIST dataset:
from torchvision import datasets
import torch
data_folder = '/content/' # This can be any directory 
# you download FMNIST to
fmnist = datasets.FashionMNIST(data_folder, download=True, \
                               train=True)
2. Fetch an image from the downloaded dataset:
tr_images = fmnist.data
tr_targets = fmnist.targets
3. Let's plot the first image:
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
plt.imshow(tr_images[0])

--- Strana 227 ---
The output of the preceding code is as follows:
Perform scaling on top of the image:
1. Define an object that performs scaling:
from imgaug import augmenters as iaa
aug = iaa.Affine(scale=2)
2. Specify that we want to augment the image using the augment_image
method, which is available in the aug object, and plot it:
plt.imshow(aug.augment_image(tr_images[0]))
plt.title('Scaled image')
The output of the preceding code is as follows:

--- Strana 228 ---
In the preceding output, the image has been zoomed into considerably. This
has resulted in some pixels being cut from the original image since the
output shape of the image hasn't changed.
Now, let's take a look at a scenario where an image has been translated by a
certain number of pixels using the translate_px parameter:
aug = iaa.Affine(translate_px=10)
plt.imshow(aug.augment_image(tr_images[0]))
plt.title('Translated image by 10 pixels')
The output of the preceding code is as follows:

--- Strana 229 ---
In the preceding output, the translation by 10 pixels has happened across
both the x and y axes.
If we want to perform translation more in one axis and less in the other axis,
we must specify the amount of translation we want in each axis:
aug = iaa.Affine(translate_px={'x':10,'y':2})
plt.imshow(aug.augment_image(tr_images[0]))
plt.title('Translation of 10 pixels \nacross columns \
and 2 pixels over rows')
Here, we have provided a dictionary that states the amount of translation in
the x and y axes in the translate_px parameter.
The output of the preceding code is as follows:

--- Strana 230 ---
The preceding output shows that more translation happened across columns
compared to rows. This has also resulted in a certain portion of the image
being cropped.
Now, let's consider the impact rotation and shearing have on image
augmentation:

--- Strana 231 ---
In the majority of the preceding outputs, we can see that certain pixels were
cropped out of the image post-transformation. Now, let's take a look at how
the rest of the parameters in the Affine method help us not lose information
due to cropping post-augmentation.
fit_output is a parameter that can help with the preceding scenario. By
default, it is set to False. However, let's see how the preceding outputs vary
when we specify fit_output as True when we scale, translate, rotate, and shear
the image:
plt.figure(figsize=(20,20))
plt.subplot(161)
plt.imshow(tr_images[0])
plt.title('Original image')
plt.subplot(162)
aug = iaa.Affine(scale=2, fit_output=True)
plt.imshow(aug.augment_image(tr_images[0]))
plt.title('Scaled image')
plt.subplot(163)
aug = iaa.Affine(translate_px={'x':10,'y':2}, fit_output=True)
plt.imshow(aug.augment_image(tr_images[0]))
plt.title('Translation of 10 pixels across \ncolumns and \
2 pixels over rows')
plt.subplot(164)
aug = iaa.Affine(rotate=30, fit_output=True)
plt.imshow(aug.augment_image(tr_images[0]))
plt.title('Rotation of image \nby 30 degrees')
plt.subplot(165)
aug = iaa.Affine(shear=30, fit_output=True)
plt.imshow(aug.augment_image(tr_images[0]))
plt.title('Shear of image \nby 30 degrees')
The output of the preceding code is as follows:

--- Strana 232 ---
Here, we can see that the original image hasn't been cropped and that the
size of the augmented image increased to account for the augmented image
not being cropped (in the scaled image's output or when rotating the image
by 30 degrees). Furthermore, we can also see that the activation of
the fit_output parameter has negated the translation that we expected in the
translation of a 10-pixel image (this is a known behavior, as explained in the
documentation). 
Note that when the size of the augmented image increases (for example,
when the image is rotated), we need to figure out how the new pixels that are
not part of the original image should be filled in. 
The cval parameter solves this issue. It specifies the pixel value of the new
pixels that are created when fit_output is True. In the preceding code, cval is
filled with a default value of 0, which results in black pixels. Let's
understand how changing the cval parameter to a value of 255 impacts the
output when an image is rotated:
aug = iaa.Affine(rotate=30, fit_output=True, cval=255)
plt.imshow(aug.augment_image(tr_images[0]))
plt.title('Rotation of image by 30 degrees')
The output of the preceding code is as follows:

--- Strana 233 ---
In the preceding image, the new pixels have been filled with a pixel value of
255, which corresponds to the color white.
Furthermore, there are different modes we can use to fill the values of newly
created pixels. These values, which are for the mode parameter, are as follows:
constant: Pads with a constant value.
edge: Pads with the edge values of the array.
symmetric: Pads with the reflection of the vector mirrored along the edge
of the array.
reflect: Pads with the reflection of the vector mirrored on the first and
last values of the vector along each axis.
wrap: Pads with the wrap of the vector along the axis.
The initial values are used to pad the end, while the end values are used to
pad the beginning.
The outputs that we receive when cval is set to 0 and we vary the mode
parameter are as follows:

--- Strana 234 ---
Here, we can see that for our current scenario based on the Fashion-MNIST
dataset, it is more desirable to use the constant mode for data augmentation.
So far, we have specified that the translation needs to be a certain number of
pixels. Similarly, we have specified that the rotation angle should be of a
specific degree. However, in practice, it becomes difficult to specify the
exact angle that an image needs to be rotated by. Thus, in the following
code, we've provided a range that the image will be rotated by. This can be
done like so:
plt.figure(figsize=(20,20))
plt.subplot(151)
aug = iaa.Affine(rotate=(-45,45), fit_output=True, cval=0, \
                 mode='constant')
plt.imshow(aug.augment_image(tr_images[0]), cmap='gray')
plt.subplot(152)
aug = iaa.Affine(rotate=(-45,45), fit_output=True, cval=0, \
                 mode='constant')
plt.imshow(aug.augment_image(tr_images[0]), cmap='gray')
plt.subplot(153)
aug = iaa.Affine(rotate=(-45,45), fit_output=True, cval=0, \
                 mode='constant')
plt.imshow(aug.augment_image(tr_images[0]), cmap='gray')
plt.subplot(154)
aug = iaa.Affine(rotate=(-45,45), fit_output=True, cval=0, \
                 mode='constant')
plt.imshow(aug.augment_image(tr_images[0]), cmap='gray')
The output of the preceding code is as follows:

--- Strana 235 ---
In the preceding output, the same image was rotated differently in different
iterations because we specified a range of possible rotation angles in terms
of the upper and lower bounds of the rotation. Similarly, we can randomize
augmentations when we are translating or sharing an image.
So far, we have looked at varying the image in different ways. However, the
intensity/brightness of the image remains unchanged. Next, we'll learn how
to augment the brightness of images.
Changing the brightness
Imagine a scenario where the difference between the background and the
foreground is not as distinct as we have seen so far. This means the
background does not have a pixel value of 0 and that the foreground does not
have a pixel value of 255. Such a scenario can typically happen when the
lighting conditions in the image are different. 
If the background has always had a pixel value of 0 and the foreground has
always had a pixel value of 255 when the model has been trained but we are
predicting an image that has a background pixel value of 20 and a
foreground pixel value of 220, the prediction is likely to be incorrect.
Multiply and Linearcontrast are two different augmentation techniques that can
be leveraged to resolve such scenarios.

--- Strana 236 ---
The Multiply method multiplies each pixel value by the value that we specify.
The output of multiplying each pixel value by 0.5 for the image we have
been considering so far is as follows:
aug = iaa.Multiply(0.5)
plt.imshow(aug.augment_image(tr_images[0]), cmap='gray', \
           vmin = 0, vmax = 255)
plt.title('Pixels multiplied by 0.5')
The output of the preceding code is as follows:
Linearcontrast adjusts each pixel value based on the following formula:
In the preceding equation, when α is equal to 1, the pixel values remain
unchanged. However, when α is less than 1, high pixel values are reduced
and low pixel values are increased.
Let's take a look at the impact Linearcontrast has on the output of this image:
aug = iaa.LinearContrast(0.5)
plt.imshow(aug.augment_image(tr_images[0]), cmap='gray', \
           vmin = 0, vmax = 255)
plt.title('Pixel contrast by 0.5')

--- Strana 237 ---
The output of the preceding code is as follows:
Here, we can see that the background became more bright, while the
foreground pixels' intensity reduced.
Next, we'll blur the image to mimic a realistic scenario (where the image can
be potentially blurred due to motion) using the GaussianBlur method:
aug = iaa.GaussianBlur(sigma=1)
plt.imshow(aug.augment_image(tr_images[0]), cmap='gray', \
           vmin = 0, vmax = 255)
plt.title('Gaussian blurring of image')
The output of the preceding code is as follows:

--- Strana 238 ---
In the preceding image, we can see that the image was blurred considerably
and that as the sigma value increases (where the default is 0 for no blurring),
the image becomes even blurrier.
Adding noise
In a real-world scenario, we may encounter grainy images due to bad
photography conditions. Dropout and SaltAndPepper are two prominent methods
that can help in simulating grainy image conditions. Let's take a look at the
output of augmenting an image with these two methods:
plt.figure(figsize=(10,10))
plt.subplot(121)
aug = iaa.Dropout(p=0.2)
plt.imshow(aug.augment_image(tr_images[0]), cmap='gray', \
           vmin = 0, vmax = 255)
plt.title('Random 20% pixel dropout')
plt.subplot(122)
aug = iaa.SaltAndPepper(0.2)
plt.imshow(aug.augment_image(tr_images[0]), cmap='gray', \
           vmin = 0, vmax = 255)
plt.title('Random 20% salt and pepper noise')
The output of the preceding code is as follows:

--- Strana 239 ---
Here, we can see that while the Dropout method dropped a certain amount of
pixels randomly (that is, it converted them so that they had a pixel value of
0), the SaltAndPepper method added some white-ish and black-ish pixels
randomly to our image.
Performing a sequence of augmentations
So far, we have looked at various augmentations and have also performed.
However, in a real-world scenario, we would have to account for as many
augmentations as possible. In this section, we will learn about the sequential
way of performing augmentations.
Using the Sequential method, we can construct the augmentation method
using all the relevant augmentations that must be performed. For our
example, we'll only consider rotate and Dropout for augmenting our image.
The Sequential object looks as follows:
seq = iaa.Sequential([
      iaa.Dropout(p=0.2),

--- Strana 240 ---
      iaa.Affine(rotate=(-30,30))], random_order= True)
In the preceding code, we are specifying that we are interested in the two
augmentations and have also specified that we're going to be using the
random_order parameter. The augmentation process is going to be performed
randomly between the two.
Now, let's plot the image with these augmentations:
plt.imshow(seq.augment_image(tr_images[0]), cmap='gray', \
           vmin = 0, vmax = 255)
plt.title('Image augmented using a \nrandom order \
of the two augmentations')
The output of the preceding code is as follows:
From the preceding image, we can see that the two augmentations are
performed on top of the original image (you can observe that the image has
been rotated and that dropout has been applied).
Performing data augmentation on a batch of
images and the need for collate_fn

--- Strana 241 ---
We have already seen that it is preferable to perform different augmentations
in different iterations on the same image. 
If we have an augmentation pipeline defined in the __init__ method, we
would only need to perform augmentation once on the input set of images.
This means we would not have different augmentations on different
iterations.
Similarly, if the augmentation is in the __getitem__ method – which is ideal
since we want to perform a different set of augmentations on each image –
the major bottleneck is that the augmentation is performed once for each
image. It would be much faster if we were to perform augmentation on a
batch of images instead of on one image at a time. Let's understand this in
detail by looking at two scenarios where we will be working on 32 images:
Augmenting 32 images, one at a time
Augmenting 32 images as a batch in one go
To understand the time it takes to augment 32 images in both scenarios, let's
leverage the first 32 images in the training images of the Fashion-MNIST
dataset:
The following code is available as Time_comparison_of_augmentation_scenario.ipynb in the
Chapter04 folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1. Fetch the first 32 images in the training dataset:
from torchvision import datasets
import torch
data_folder = '/content/' 
fmnist = datasets.FashionMNIST(data_folder, download=True, \
                                                train=True)
tr_images = fmnist.data
tr_targets = fmnist.targets
2. Specify the augmentation to be performed on the images:
from imgaug import augmenters as iaa
aug = iaa.Sequential([
              iaa.Affine(translate_px={'x':(-10,10)}, 
                                        mode='constant'),
            ])

--- Strana 242 ---
Next, we need to understand how to perform augmentation in the
Dataset class. There are two possible ways of augmenting data:
Augmenting a batch of images, one at a time
Augmenting all the images in a batch in one go
Let's understand the time it takes to perform both the preceding
scenarios:
Scenario 1: Augmenting 32 images, one at a time:
Calculate the time it takes to augment one image at a time using
the augment_image method:
%%time
for i in range(32):
    aug.augment_image(tr_images[i])
It takes ~180 milliseconds to augment for the 32 images.
Scenario 2: Augmenting 32 images as a batch in one go:
Calculate the time it takes to augment the batch of 32 images in
one go using the augment_images method:
%%time
aug.augment_images(tr_images[:32])
It takes ~8 milliseconds to perform augmentation on the batch of
images.
It is a best practice to augment on top of a batch of images than doing so one image at a
time. In addition, the output of the augment_images method is a numpy array.
However, the traditional Dataset class that we have been working on
provides the index of one image at a time in the __getitem__ method.
Hence, we need to learn how to use a new function – collate_fn – that
enables us to perform manipulation on a batch of images.
3. Define the Dataset class, which takes the input images, their classes, and
the augmentation object as initializers:

--- Strana 243 ---
from torch.utils.data import Dataset, DataLoader
class FMNISTDataset(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, x, y, aug=None):
        self.x, self.y = x, y
        self.aug = aug
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        x, y = self.x[ix], self.y[ix]
        return x, y
    def __len__(self): return len(self.x)
Define collate_fn, which takes the batch of data as input:
    def collate_fn(self, batch):
Separate the batch of images and their classes into two different
variables:
        ims, classes = list(zip(*batch))
Specify that augmentation must be done if the augmentation object
is provided. This is useful is we need to perform augmentation on
training data but not on validation data:
        if self.aug: ims=self.aug.augment_images(images=ims)
In the preceding code, we leveraged the augment_images method so
that we can work on a batch of images.
Create tensors of images, along with scaling data, by dividing the
image shape by 255:
        ims = torch.tensor(ims)[:,None,:,:].to(device)/255.
        classes = torch.tensor(classes).to(device)
        return ims, classes
In general, we leverage the collate_fn method when we have to perform heavy
computations. This is because performing such computations on a batch of images in
one go is faster than doing it one image at a time.
4. From now on, to leverage the collate_fn method, we'll use a new
argument while creating the DataLoader:
First, we create the train object:
train = FMNISTDataset(tr_images, tr_targets, aug=aug)

--- Strana 244 ---
Next, we define the DataLoader, along with the object's
collate_fn method, as follows:
trn_dl = DataLoader(train, batch_size=64, \
                    collate_fn=train.collate_fn,shuffle=True)
5. Finally, we train the model, as we have been training it so far. By
leveraging the collate_fn method, we can train a model faster.
Now that we have a solid understanding of some of the prominent data
augmentation techniques we can use, including pixel translation
and collate_fn, which allows us to augment a batch of images, let's
understand how they can be applied to a batch of data to address image
translation issues.
Data augmentation for image translation
Now, we are in a position to train the model with augmented data. Let's
create some augmented data and train the model:
The following code is available as Data_augmentation_with_CNN.ipynb in the Chapter04 folder of
this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1. Import the relevant packages and dataset:
from torchvision import datasets
import torch
from torch.utils.data import Dataset, DataLoader
import torch
import torch.nn as nn
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
import numpy as np
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
data_folder = '/content/' # This can be any directory 
# you want to download FMNIST to
fmnist = datasets.FashionMNIST(data_folder, download=True, \
                                        train=True)
tr_images = fmnist.data
tr_targets = fmnist.targets
val_fmnist=datasets.FashionMNIST(data_folder, download=True, \
                                        train=False)
val_images = val_fmnist.data
val_targets = val_fmnist.targets

--- Strana 245 ---
2. Create a class that can perform data augmentation on an image that's
translated randomly anywhere between -10 to +10 pixels, either to the
left or to the right:
Define the data augmentation pipeline:
from imgaug import augmenters as iaa
aug = iaa.Sequential([
              iaa.Affine(translate_px={'x':(-10,10)}, 
                                        mode='constant'),
            ])
Define the Dataset class:
class FMNISTDataset(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, x, y, aug=None):
        self.x, self.y = x, y
        self.aug = aug
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        x, y = self.x[ix], self.y[ix]
        return x, y
    def __len__(self): return len(self.x)
    def collate_fn(self, batch):
        'logic to modify a batch of images'
        ims, classes = list(zip(*batch))
        # transform a batch of images at once
        if self.aug: ims=self.aug.augment_images(images=ims) 
        ims = torch.tensor(ims)[:,None,:,:].to(device)/255.
        classes = torch.tensor(classes).to(device)
        return ims, classes
In the preceding code, we've leveraged the collate_fn method to
specify that we want to perform augmentations on a batch of
images.
3. Define the model architecture, as we did in the previous section:
from torch.optim import SGD, Adam
def get_model():
    model = nn.Sequential(
                nn.Conv2d(1, 64, kernel_size=3),
                nn.MaxPool2d(2),
                nn.ReLU(),
                nn.Conv2d(64, 128, kernel_size=3),
                nn.MaxPool2d(2),
                nn.ReLU(),
                nn.Flatten(),
                nn.Linear(3200, 256),
                nn.ReLU(),
                nn.Linear(256, 10)
            ).to(device)
    loss_fn = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()

--- Strana 246 ---
    optimizer = Adam(model.parameters(), lr=1e-3)
    return model, loss_fn, optimizer
4. Define the train_batch function in order to train on batches of data:
def train_batch(x, y, model, opt, loss_fn):
    model.train()
    prediction = model(x)
    batch_loss = loss_fn(prediction, y)
    batch_loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    return batch_loss.item()
5. Define the get_data function to fetch the training and validation
DataLoaders:
def get_data(): 
    train = FMNISTDataset(tr_images, tr_targets, aug=aug)
    'notice the collate_fn argument'
    trn_dl = DataLoader(train, batch_size=64, \
                collate_fn=train.collate_fn, shuffle=True)
    val = FMNISTDataset(val_images, val_targets) 
    val_dl = DataLoader(val, batch_size=len(val_images), 
                collate_fn=val.collate_fn, shuffle=True)
    return trn_dl, val_dl
6. Specify the training and validation DataLoaders and fetch the model
object, loss function, and optimizer:
trn_dl, val_dl = get_data()
model, loss_fn, optimizer = get_model()
7. Train the model over 5 epochs:
for epoch in range(5):
    for ix, batch in enumerate(iter(trn_dl)):
        x, y = batch
        batch_loss = train_batch(x, y, model, optimizer, \
                                            loss_fn)
8. Test the model on a translated image, as we did in the previous section:
preds = []
ix = 24300
for px in range(-5,6):
    img = tr_images[ix]/255.
    img = img.view(28, 28)
    img2 = np.roll(img, px, axis=1)
    plt.imshow(img2)
    plt.show()
    img3 = torch.Tensor(img2).view(-1,1,28,28).to(device)

--- Strana 247 ---
    np_output = model(img3).cpu().detach().numpy()
    preds.append(np.exp(np_output)/np.sum(np.exp(np_output)))
Now, let's plot the variation in the prediction class across different
translations:
import seaborn as sns
fig, ax = plt.subplots(1,1, figsize=(12,10))
plt.title('Probability of each class \
for various translations')
sns.heatmap(np.array(preds).reshape(11,10), annot=True, \
            ax=ax, fmt='.2f', xticklabels=fmnist.classes, \
            yticklabels=[str(i)+str(' pixels') \
                         for i in range(-5,6)], cmap='gray')
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 248 ---
Now, when we predict for various translations of an image, we'll see that the
class prediction does not vary, thus ensuring that image translation is taken
care of by training our model on augmented, translated images.
So far, we have seen how a CNN model trained with augmented images can
predict well on translated images. In the next section, we'll understand what
the filters learn, which makes predicting translated images possible.

--- Strana 249 ---
Visualizing the outcome of feature
learning
So far, we have learned about how CNNs help us classify images, even when
the objects in the images have been translated. We have also learned that
filters play a key role in learning the features of an image, which, in turn,
help in classifying the image into the right class. However, we haven't
mentioned what the filters learn that makes them powerful. 
In this section, we will learn about what these filters learn that enables CNNs
to classify an image correctly by classifying a dataset that contains images of
X's and O's. We will also examine the fully connected layer (flatten layer) to
understand what their activations look like. Let's take a look at what the
filters learn:
The code for this section is available as Visualizing_the_features'_learning.ipynb in the
Chapter04 folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt.
1. Download the dataset:
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/5jh4hpuk2gcxaaq/all.zip
!unzip all.zip
Note that the images in the folder are named as follows:
The class of an image can be obtained from the image's name, where
the first character of the image's name specifies the class the image
belongs to.
2. Import the required modules:
import torch
from torch import nn

--- Strana 250 ---
from torch.utils.data import TensorDataset,Dataset,DataLoader
from torch.optim import SGD, Adam
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
from torchvision import datasets
import numpy as np, cv2
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
from glob import glob
from imgaug import augmenters as iaa
3. Define a class that fetches data. Also, ensure that the images have been
resized to a shape of 28 x 28, batches have been shaped with three
channels, and that the dependent variable is fetched as a numeric value.
We'll do this in the following code, one step at a time:
Define the image augmented method, which resizes the image to a
shape of 28 x 28:
tfm = iaa.Sequential(iaa.Resize(28))
Define a class that takes the folder path as input and loops through
the files in that path in the __init__ method:
class XO(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, folder):
        self.files = glob(folder)
Define the __len__ method, which returns the lengths of the files that
are to be considered:
    def __len__(self): return len(self.files)
Define the __getitem__ method, which we use to fetch an index that
returns the file present at that index, read the file, and then perform
augmentation on the image. We have not used collate_fn here
because this is a small dataset and it wouldn't affect the training
time significantly:
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        f = self.files[ix]
        im = tfm.augment_image(cv2.imread(f)[:,:,0])
Given that each image is of the shape 28 x 28, we'll now create a
dummy channel dimension at the beginning of the shape; that is,
before the height and width of an image:

--- Strana 251 ---
        im = im[None]
Now, we can assign the class of each image based on the character
post '/' and prior to '@' in the filename:
        cl = f.split('/')[-1].split('@')[0] == 'x'
Finally, we return the image and the corresponding class:
        return torch.tensor(1 - im/255).to(device).float(), \
                       torch.tensor([cl]).float().to(device)
4. Inspect a sample of the images you've obtained. In the following code,
we're extracting the images and their corresponding classes by fetching
data from the class we defined previously:
data = XO('/content/all/*')
Now, we can plot a sample of the images from the dataset we've
obtained:
R, C = 7,7
fig, ax = plt.subplots(R, C, figsize=(5,5))
for label_class, plot_row in enumerate(ax):
    for plot_cell in plot_row:
        plot_cell.grid(False); plot_cell.axis('off')
        ix = np.random.choice(1000)
        im, label = data[ix]
        print()
        plot_cell.imshow(im[0].cpu(), cmap='gray')
plt.tight_layout()
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 252 ---
5. Define the model architecture, loss function, and the optimizer:
from torch.optim import SGD, Adam
def get_model():
    model = nn.Sequential(
                nn.Conv2d(1, 64, kernel_size=3),
                nn.MaxPool2d(2),
                nn.ReLU(),
                nn.Conv2d(64, 128, kernel_size=3),
                nn.MaxPool2d(2),
                nn.ReLU(),
                nn.Flatten(),
                nn.Linear(3200, 256),
                nn.ReLU(),
                nn.Linear(256, 1),
                nn.Sigmoid()
            ).to(device)
    loss_fn = nn.BCELoss()
    optimizer = Adam(model.parameters(), lr=1e-3)
    return model, loss_fn, optimizer
Note that the loss function is binary cross-entropy loss (nn.BCELoss())
since the output provided is from a binary class. A summary of the
preceding model can be obtained as follows:
!pip install torch_summary
from torchsummary import summary
model, loss_fn, optimizer = get_model()
summary(model, torch.zeros(1,1,28,28));
This results in the following output:

--- Strana 253 ---
6. Define a function for training on batches that takes images and their
classes as input and returns their loss values and accuracy after
backpropagation has been performed on top of the given batch of data:
def train_batch(x, y, model, opt, loss_fn):
    model.train()
    prediction = model(x)
    is_correct = (prediction > 0.5) == y
    batch_loss = loss_fn(prediction, y)
    batch_loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    return batch_loss.item(), is_correct[0]
7. Define a DataLoader where the input is the Dataset class:

--- Strana 254 ---
trn_dl = DataLoader(XO('/content/all/*'), batch_size=32, \
                    drop_last=True)
8. Initialize the model:
model, loss_fn, optimizer = get_model()
9. Train the model over 5 epochs:
for epoch in range(5):
    for ix, batch in enumerate(iter(trn_dl)):
        x, y = batch
        batch_loss = train_batch(x, y, model, optimizer, \
                                        loss_fn)
10. Fetch an image to check what the filters learn about the image:
im, c = trn_dl.dataset[2]
plt.imshow(im[0].cpu())
plt.show()
This results in the following output:
11. Pass the image through the trained model and fetch the output of the
first layer. Then, store it in the intermediate_output variable:
first_layer = nn.Sequential(*list(model.children())[:1])
intermediate_output = first_layer(im[None])[0].detach()

--- Strana 255 ---
12. Plot the output of the 64 filters. Each channel in intermediate_output is the
output of the convolution for each filter:
fig, ax = plt.subplots(8, 8, figsize=(10,10))
for ix, axis in enumerate(ax.flat):
    axis.set_title('Filter: '+str(ix))
    axis.imshow(intermediate_output[ix].cpu())
plt.tight_layout()
plt.show()
This results in the following output:

--- Strana 256 ---
In the preceding output, notice that certain filters, such as filters 0, 4,
6, and 7, learn about the edges present in the network, while other

--- Strana 257 ---
filters, such as filter 54, learned to invert the image.
13. Pass multiple O images and inspect the output of the fourth filter across
the images (we are only using the fourth filter for illustration purposes;
you can choose a different filter if you wish):
Fetch multiple O images from the data:
x, y = next(iter(trn_dl))
x2 = x[y==0]
Reshape x2 so that it has a proper input shape for a CNN model; that
is, batch size x channels x height x width:
x2 = x2.view(-1,1,28,28)
Define a variable that stores the model until the first layer:
first_layer = nn.Sequential(*list(model.children())[:1])
Extract the output of passing the O images (x2) through the model
until the first layer (first_layer), as defined previously:
first_layer_output = first_layer(x2).detach()
14. Plot the output of passing multiple images through the first_layer
model:
n = 4
fig, ax = plt.subplots(n, n, figsize=(10,10))
for ix, axis in enumerate(ax.flat):
    axis.imshow(first_layer_output[ix,4,:,:].cpu())
    axis.set_title(str(ix))
plt.tight_layout()
plt.show()
The preceding code results in the following  output:

--- Strana 258 ---
Note that the behavior of a given filter (in this case, the fourth filter of the first layer)
has remained consistent across images.
15. Now, let's create another model that extracts layers until the second
convolution layer (that is, until the four layers defined in the preceding
model) and then extracts the output of passing the original O image. We
will then plot the output of convolving the filters in the second layer
with the input O image: 
second_layer = nn.Sequential(*list(model.children())[:4])
second_intermediate_output=second_layer(im[None])[0].detach()

--- Strana 259 ---
Plot the output of convolving the filters with the respective image:
fig, ax = plt.subplots(11, 11, figsize=(10,10))
for ix, axis in enumerate(ax.flat):
    axis.imshow(second_intermediate_output[ix].cpu())
    axis.set_title(str(ix))
plt.tight_layout()
plt.show()
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 260 ---

--- Strana 261 ---
Now, let's use the 34th filter's output in the preceding image as an
example. When we pass multiple O images through filter 34, we
should see similar activations across images. Let's test this, as
follows:
second_layer = nn.Sequential(*list(model.children())[:4])
second_intermediate_output = second_layer(x2).detach()
fig, ax = plt.subplots(4, 4, figsize=(10,10))
for ix, axis in enumerate(ax.flat):
    axis.imshow(second_intermediate_output[ix,34,:,:].cpu())
    axis.set_title(str(ix))
plt.tight_layout()
plt.show()
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 262 ---
Note that, even here, the activations of the 34th filter on different
images are similar in that the left half of O was activating the filter.
16. Plot the activations of a fully connected layer, as follows:
First, fetch a larger sample of images:
custom_dl= DataLoader(XO('/content/all/*'),batch_size=2498, \
                       drop_last=True)

--- Strana 263 ---
Next, choose only the O images from the dataset and then reshape
them so that they can be passed as input to our CNN model:
x, y = next(iter(custom_dl))
x2 = x[y==0]
x2 = x2.view(len(x2),1,28,28)
Fetch the flatten (fully connected) layer and pass thee preceding
images through the model until they reach the flattened layer:
flatten_layer = nn.Sequential(*list(model.children())[:7])
flatten_layer_output = flatten_layer(x2).detach()
Plot the flattened layer:
plt.figure(figsize=(100,10))
plt.imshow(flatten_layer_output.cpu())
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 264 ---
Note that the shape of the output is 1245 x 3200 since there are 1,245 O
images in our dataset and there are 3,200 dimensions for each image in the
flattening layer.
It's also interesting to note that certain values in the fully connected layer are
highlighted when the input is O (here, we can see white lines, where each
dot represents an activation value greater than zero).
Note that the model has learned to bring some structure to the fully connected layer,
even though the input images – while all belonging to the same class – differ in style
considerably.

--- Strana 265 ---
Now that we have learned how CNNs work and how filters aid in this
process, we will apply this so that we can classify images of cats and dogs.
Building a CNN for classifying real-
world images
So far, we have learned how to perform image classification on the Fashion-
MNIST dataset. In this section, we'll do the same for a more real-world
scenario, where the task is to classify images containing cats or dogs. We
will also learn about how the accuracy of the dataset varies when we change
the number of images available for training.
We will be working on a dataset available in Kaggle: https://www.kaggle.com/ton
gpython/cat-and-dog.
The code for this section is available as Cats_Vs_Dogs.ipynb in the Chapter04 folder of this
book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt Be sure to copy the URL from the
notebook in GitHub to avoid any issue while reproducing the results
1. Import the necessary packages:
import torchvision
import torch.nn as nn
import torch
import torch.nn.functional as F
from torchvision import transforms,models,datasets
from PIL import Image
from torch import optim
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
import cv2, glob, numpy as np, pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
from glob import glob
!pip install torch_summary
2. Download the dataset, as follows:
Here, we must download the dataset that's available in the colab
environment. First, however, we must upload our
Kaggle authentication file:

--- Strana 266 ---
!pip install -q kaggle
from google.colab import files
files.upload()
You will have to upload your kaggle.json file for this step, which can be obtained from
your Kaggle account. A detail of how to obtain the kaggle.json file is provided in the
associated notebook on GitHub
Next, specify that we're moving to the Kaggle folder and copy
the kaggle.json file to it:
!mkdir -p ~/.kaggle
!cp kaggle.json ~/.kaggle/
!ls ~/.kaggle
!chmod 600 /root/.kaggle/kaggle.json
Finally, download the cats and dogs dataset and unzip it:
!kaggle datasets download -d tongpython/cat-and-dog
!unzip cat-and-dog.zip
3. Provide the training and test dataset folders:
train_data_dir = '/content/training_set/training_set'
test_data_dir = '/content/test_set/test_set'
4. Build a class that fetches data from the preceding folders. Then, based
on the directory the image corresponds to, provide a label of 1 for "dog"
images and a label of 0 for "cat" images. Furthermore, ensure that the
fetched image has been normalized to a scale between 0 and 1 and
permute it so that channels are provided first (as PyTorch models
expect to have channels specified first, before the height and width of
the image).
Define the __init__ method, which takes a folder as input and stores
the file paths (image paths) corresponding to the images in the cats
and dogs folders in separate objects, post concatenating the file paths
into a single list:
from torch.utils.data import DataLoader, Dataset
class cats_dogs(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, folder):
        cats = glob(folder+'/cats/*.jpg')
        dogs = glob(folder+'/dogs/*.jpg')
        self.fpaths = cats + dogs

--- Strana 267 ---
Next, randomize the file paths and create target variables based on
the folder corresponding to these file paths:
        from random import shuffle, seed; seed(10); 
        shuffle(self.fpaths)
        self.targets=[fpath.split('/')[-1].startswith('dog') \
                      for fpath in self.fpaths] # dog=1 
Define the __len__ method, which corresponds to the self class:
    def __len__(self): return len(self.fpaths)
Define the __getitem__ method, which we use to specify a random file
path from the list of file paths, read the image, and resize all the
images so that they're 224 x 224 in size. Given that our CNN
expects the inputs from the channel to be specified first for each
image, we will permute the resized image so that channels are
provided first before we return the scaled image and the
corresponding target value:
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        f = self.fpaths[ix]
        target = self.targets[ix]
        im = (cv2.imread(f)[:,:,::-1])
        im = cv2.resize(im, (224,224))
        return torch.tensor(im/255).permute(2,0,1)\
                    .to(device).float(),\
               torch.tensor([target]) \
                    .float().to(device)
5. Inspect a random image:
data = cats_dogs(train_data_dir)
im, label = data[200]
We need to permute the image we've obtained to our channels last.
This is because matplotlib expects an image to have the channels
specified after the height and width of the image has been provided:
plt.imshow(im.permute(1,2,0).cpu())
print(label)
This results in the following output:

--- Strana 268 ---
6. Define a model, loss function, and optimizer, as follows:
First, we must define the conv_layer function, where we perform
convolution, ReLU activation, batch normalization, and max
pooling in that order. This method will be reused in the final model,
which we will define in the next step:
def conv_layer(ni,no,kernel_size,stride=1):
    return nn.Sequential(
        nn.Conv2d(ni, no, kernel_size, stride),
        nn.ReLU(),
        nn.BatchNorm2d(no),
        nn.MaxPool2d(2)
    )
In the preceding code, we are taking the number of input
channels (ni), number of output channels (no), kernel_size, and the
stride of filters as input for the conv_layer function.
Define the get_model function, which performs multiple convolutions
and pooling operations (by calling the conv_layer method), flattens
the output, and connects a hidden layer to it prior to connecting to
the output layer:
def get_model():
    model = nn.Sequential(
              conv_layer(3, 64, 3),
              conv_layer(64, 512, 3),

--- Strana 269 ---
              conv_layer(512, 512, 3),
              conv_layer(512, 512, 3),
              conv_layer(512, 512, 3),
              conv_layer(512, 512, 3),
              nn.Flatten(),
              nn.Linear(512, 1),
              nn.Sigmoid(),
            ).to(device)
    loss_fn = nn.BCELoss()
    optimizer = torch.optim.Adam(model.parameters(), lr= 1e-3)
    return model, loss_fn, optimizer
You can chain nn.Sequential inside nn.Sequential with as much depth as you want. In the
preceding code, we used conv_layer as if it were any other nn.Module layer.
Now, we must call the get_model function to fetch the model, loss
function (loss_fn), and optimizer and then summarize the model using
the summary method that we imported from the torchsummary package:
from torchsummary import summary
model, loss_fn, optimizer = get_model()
summary(model, torch.zeros(1,3, 224, 224));
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 270 ---
7. Create the get_data function, which creates an object of the cats_dogs
class and creates a DataLoader with a batch_size of 32 for both the training
and validation folders:

--- Strana 271 ---
def get_data(): 
    train = cats_dogs(train_data_dir)
    trn_dl = DataLoader(train, batch_size=32, shuffle=True, \
                            drop_last = True)
    val = cats_dogs(test_data_dir)
    val_dl = DataLoader(val, batch_size=32, shuffle=True, \
                            drop_last = True)
    return trn_dl, val_dl
In the preceding code, we are ignoring the last batch of data by
specifying that drop_last = True. We're doing this because the last batch
might not be the same size as the other batches.
8. Define the function that will train the model on a batch of data, as we've
done in previous sections:
def train_batch(x, y, model, opt, loss_fn):
    model.train()
    prediction = model(x)
    batch_loss = loss_fn(prediction, y)
    batch_loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    return batch_loss.item()
9. Define the functions for calculating accuracy and validation loss, as
we've done in previous sections:
Define the accuracy function:
@torch.no_grad()
def accuracy(x, y, model):
    prediction = model(x)
    is_correct = (prediction > 0.5) == y
    return is_correct.cpu().numpy().tolist()
Note that the preceding code for accuracy calculation is different
from the code in the Fashion-MNIST classification because the
current model (cats versus dogs classification) is being built for
binary classification, while the Fashion-MNIST model was built
for multi-class classification.
Define the validation loss calculation function:
@torch.no_grad()
def val_loss(x, y, model):
    prediction = model(x)

--- Strana 272 ---
    val_loss = loss_fn(prediction, y)
    return val_loss.item()
10. Train the model for 5 epochs and check the accuracy of the test data at
the end of each epoch, as we've done in previous sections:
Define the model and fetch the required DataLoaders:
trn_dl, val_dl = get_data()
model, loss_fn, optimizer = get_model()
Train the model over increasing epochs:
train_losses, train_accuracies = [], []
val_losses, val_accuracies = [], []
for epoch in range(5):
    train_epoch_losses, train_epoch_accuracies = [], []
    val_epoch_accuracies = []
    for ix, batch in enumerate(iter(trn_dl)):
        x, y = batch
        batch_loss = train_batch(x, y, model, optimizer, \
                                            loss_fn)
        train_epoch_losses.append(batch_loss) 
    train_epoch_loss = np.array(train_epoch_losses).mean()
    for ix, batch in enumerate(iter(trn_dl)):
        x, y = batch
        is_correct = accuracy(x, y, model)
        train_epoch_accuracies.extend(is_correct)
    train_epoch_accuracy = np.mean(train_epoch_accuracies)
    for ix, batch in enumerate(iter(val_dl)):
        x, y = batch
        val_is_correct = accuracy(x, y, model)
        val_epoch_accuracies.extend(val_is_correct)
    val_epoch_accuracy = np.mean(val_epoch_accuracies)
    train_losses.append(train_epoch_loss)
    train_accuracies.append(train_epoch_accuracy)
    val_accuracies.append(val_epoch_accuracy)
11. Plot the variation of the training and validation accuracies over
increasing epochs:
epochs = np.arange(5)+1
import matplotlib.ticker as mtick
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import matplotlib.ticker as mticker
%matplotlib inline
plt.plot(epochs, train_accuracies, 'bo', 
         label='Training accuracy')
plt.plot(epochs, val_accuracies, 'r', 
         label='Validation accuracy')
plt.gca().xaxis.set_major_locator(mticker.MultipleLocator(1))
plt.title('Training and validation accuracy \

--- Strana 273 ---
with 4K data points used for training')
plt.xlabel('Epochs')
plt.ylabel('Accuracy')
plt.gca().set_yticklabels(['{:.0f}%'.format(x*100) \
                           for x in plt.gca().get_yticks()]) 
plt.legend()
plt.grid('off')
plt.show()
The preceding code results in the following output:
Note that the classification accuracy at the end of 5 epochs is ~86%.
As we discussed in the previous chapter, batch normalization has a great impact on
improving classification accuracy – check this out for yourself by training the model
without batch normalization. Furthermore, the model can be trained without batch
normalization if you use fewer parameters. You can do this by reducing the number of
layers, increasing the stride, increasing the pooling, or resizing the image to a number
that's lower than 224 x 224.
So far, the training we've done has been based on ~8K examples, where 4K
examples have been from the cat class and the rest have been from the dog
class. In the next section, we will learn about what impact having a reduced
number of training examples has on each class when it comes to the
classification accuracy of the test dataset.

--- Strana 274 ---
Impact on the number of images used for training
We know that, generally, the more training examples we use, the better our
classification accuracy is. In this section, we will learn what impact using
different numbers of available images has on training accuracy by artificially
reducing the number of images available for training and then testing the
model's accuracy when classifying the test dataset.
The code for this section is available as Cats_Vs_Dogs.ipynb in the Chapter04 folder of this
book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt . Given that the majority of the code
that will be provided here is similar to what we have seen in the previous section, in text,
we have only provided the modified code for brevity. The respective notebook in this
book's GitHub repository will contain the full code.
Here, we only want to have 500 data points for each class in the training
dataset. We can do this by limiting the number of files to only the first 500
image paths in each folder in the __init__ method and ensuring the rest
remain as they were in the previous section:
    def __init__(self, folder):
        cats = glob(folder+'/cats/*.jpg')
        dogs = glob(folder+'/dogs/*.jpg')
        self.fpaths = cats[:500] + dogs[:500]
        from random import shuffle, seed; seed(10); 
            shuffle(self.fpaths)
        self.targets = [fpath.split('/')[-1].startswith('dog') \
                        for fpath in self.fpaths]
In the preceding code, the only difference from the initialization we
performed in the previous section is in self.paths, where we are now limiting
the number of file paths to be considered in each folder to only the first 500.
Now, once we execute the rest of the code, as we did in the previous section,
the accuracy of the model that's been built on 1,000 images (500 of each
class) in the test dataset will be as follows:

--- Strana 275 ---
Here, we can see that because we had fewer examples of images in training,
the accuracy of the test dataset reduced considerably; that is, down to ~66%.
Now, let's see how the number of training data points impacts the accuracy
of the test dataset by varying the number of available training examples that
will be used to train the model (where we build a model for each scenario).
We'll use the same code we used for the 500 data point training example but
will vary the number of available images (to 2K, 4K, and 8K total data
points, respectively). For brevity, we will only look at the output of running
the model on a varying number of images available for training. This results
in the following output:

--- Strana 276 ---
As you can see, the more training data that's available, the higher the
accuracy of the model on test data. However, we might not have a large
enough amount of training data in every scenario that we encounter. The
next chapter, which will cover transfer learning, will address this problem by
walking you through various techniques you can use to attain high accuracy,
even on a small amount of training data.
Summary
Traditional neural networks fail when new images that are very similar to
previously seen images that have been translated are fed as input to the
model. Convolutional neural networks play a key role in addressing this
shortcoming. This is enabled through the various mechanisms that are
present in CNNs, including filters, strides, and pooling. Initially, we built a
toy example to learn about how CNNs work. Then, we learned about how
data augmentation helps in increasing the accuracy of the model by creating
translated augmentations on top of the original image. After that, we learned

--- Strana 277 ---
about what different filters learn in the feature learning process so that we
could implement a CNN to classify images.
Finally, we saw the impact that differing amounts of training data have on
the accuracy of test data. Here, we saw that the more training data that is
available, the better the accuracy of the test data. In the next chapter, we will
learn about how to leverage various transfer learning techniques to increase
the accuracy of the test dataset, even when we have just a small amount of
training data.
Questions
1. Why is the prediction on a translated image low when using traditional
neural networks?
2. How is convolution done?
3. How are optimal weight values in a filter identified?
4. How does the combination of convolution and pooling help in
addressing the issue of image translation?
5. What do the filters in layers closer to the input layer learn?
6. What functionality does pooling have that helps in building a model?
7. Why can't we take an input image, flatten it (as we did on the Fashion-
MNIST dataset), and then train a model for real-world images?
8. How does data augmentation help in improving image translation?
9. In what scenario do we leverage collate_fn for DataLoaders?
10. What impact does varying the number of training data points have on
the classification accuracy of the validation dataset?

--- Strana 278 ---
Transfer Learning for Image
Classification
In the previous chapter, we learned that, as the number of images available
in the training dataset increased, the classification accuracy of the model
kept on increasing, to the extent where a training dataset comprising 8,000
images had a higher accuracy on validation dataset than a training dataset
comprising 1,000 images. However, we do not always have the option of
hundreds or thousands of images, along with the ground truths of their
corresponding classes, in order to train a model. This is where transfer
learning comes to the rescue.
Transfer learning is a technique where we transfer the learning of the model
on a generic dataset to the specific dataset of interest. Typically, the pre-
trained models used to perform transfer learning are trained on millions of
images (which are generic and not the dataset of interest to us) and those
pre-trained models are now fine-tuned to our dataset of interest.
In this chapter, we will learn about two different families of transfer learning
architectures – variants of VGG architecture, and variants of ResNet
architecture. 
Along with understanding the architectures, we will also understand their
application in two different use cases, age and gender classification,
where we will learn about optimizing over both cross-entropy and mean
absolute error losses at the same time, and facial key point detection, where
we will learn about leveraging neural networks to generate multiple (136,
instead of 1 prediction) continuous outputs in a single prediction. Finally, we
will learn about a new library that assists in reducing code complexity
considerably across the remaining chapters.
In summary, the following topics are covered in the chapter:
Introducing transfer learning
Understanding VGG16 and ResNet architectures

--- Strana 279 ---
Implementing facial key point detection
Multi-task learning: Implementing age estimation and gender
classification
Introducing the torch_snippets library
Introducing transfer learning
Transfer learning is a technique where knowledge gained from one task is
leveraged to solve another similar task.
Imagine a model that is trained on millions of images that span thousands of
classes of objects (not just cats and dogs). The various filters (kernels) of the
model would activate for a wide variety of shapes, colors, and textures
within the images. Those filters can now be reused to learn features on a new
set of images. Post learning the features, they can be connected to a hidden
layer prior to the final classification layer for customizing on the new data.
ImageNet (http://www.image-net.org/) is a competition hosted to classify
approximately 14 million images into 1,000 different classes. It has a variety
of classes in the dataset, including Indian elephant, lionfish, hard disk, hair
spray, and jeep. 
The deep neural network architectures that we will go through in this chapter
have been trained on the ImageNet dataset. Furthermore, given the variety
and the volume of objects that are to be classified in ImageNet, the models
are very deep so as to capture as much information as possible.
Let's understand the importance of transfer learning through a hypothetical
scenario:
Consider a situation where we are working with images of a road, trying to
classify them in terms of the objects they contain. Building a model from
scratch might result in sub-optimal results, as the number of images could be
insufficient to learn the various variations within the dataset (as we have
seen in the previous use case, where training on 8,000 images resulted in a
higher accuracy on a validation dataset than training on 2,000 images). A

--- Strana 280 ---
pre-trained model, trained on ImageNet, comes in handy in such a scenario.
It would have already learned a lot about the traffic-related classes, such as
cars, roads, trees, and humans, during training on the large ImageNet dataset.
Hence, leveraging the already trained model would result in faster and more
accurate training as the model already knows the generic shapes and now has
to fit them for the specific images. With the intuition in place, let's now
understand the high-level flow of transfer learning as follows:
1. Normalize the input images, normalized by the same mean and
standard deviation that was used during the training of the pre-trained
model.
2. Fetch the pre-trained model's architecture. Fetch the weights for this
architecture that arose as a result of being trained on a large dataset.
3. Discard the last few layers of the pre-trained model.
4. Connect the truncated pre-trained model to a freshly initialized layer (or
layers) where weights are randomly initialized. Ensure that the output
of the last layer has as many neurons as the classes/outputs we would
want to predict
5. Ensure that the weights of the pre-trained model are not trainable (in
other words, frozen/not updated during backpropagation), but that the
weights of the newly initialized layer and the weights connecting it to
the output layer are trainable:
We do not train the weights of the pre-trained model, as we assume
those weights are already well learned for the task, and hence
leverage the learning from a large model. In summary, we only
learn the newly initialized layers for our small dataset.
6. Update the trainable parameters over increasing epochs to fit a model.
Now that we have an idea of how to implement transfer learning, let's
understand the various architectures, how they are built, and the results when
we apply transfer learning to the cats versus dogs use case in subsequent
sections. First, we will cover in detail some of the various architectures that
came out of VGG.

--- Strana 281 ---
Understanding VGG16 architecture
VGG stands for Visual Geometry Group, which is based out of the
University of Oxford, and 16 stands for the number of layers in the model.
The VGG16 model is trained to classify objects in the ImageNet competition
and stood as the runner-up architecture in 2014. The reason we are studying
this architecture instead of the winning architecture (GoogleNet) is because
of its simplicity and a larger acceptance in the vision community by using it
in several other tasks. Let's understand the architecture of VGG16 along
with how a VGG16 pre-trained model is accessible and represented in
PyTorch.
The code for this section is available as VGG_architecture.ipynb in the Chapter05 folder of
this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1. Install the required packages:
import torchvision
import torch.nn as nn
import torch
import torch.nn.functional as F
from torchvision import transforms,models,datasets
!pip install torch_summary
from torchsummary import summary
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
The models module in the torchvision package hosts the various pre-
trained models available in PyTorch.
2. Load the VGG16 model and register the model within the device:
model = models.vgg16(pretrained=True).to(device)
In the preceding code, we have called the vgg16 method within the
models class. Furthermore, by mentioning pretrained = True, we are
specifying that we load the weights that were used to classify images
in the ImageNet competition, and then we are registering the model
to the device.
3. Fetch the summary of the model:

--- Strana 282 ---
summary(model, torch.zeros(1,3,224,224));
The output of the preceding code is as follows:

--- Strana 283 ---

--- Strana 284 ---
In the preceding summary, the 16 layers we mentioned are grouped
as follows:
{1,2},{3,4,5},{6,7},{8,9,10},{11,12},{13,14},{15,16,17},{18,19},{20,21},
{22,23,24},{25,26},{27,28},{29,30,31,32},{33,34,35},{36,37,38],{39}
The same summary can also be visualized thus:
Note that there are ~138 million parameters (of which ~122 million are the
linear layers at the end of the network – 102 + 16 + 4 million parameters) in
this network, which comprises 13 layers of convolution and/or pooling, with
increasing number of filters, and 3 linear layers.
Another way to understand the components of the VGG16 model is by
simply printing it as follows:
model
This results in the following output:

--- Strana 285 ---

--- Strana 286 ---
Note that there are three major sub-modules in the model—features, avgpool,
and classifier. Typically, we would freeze the features and avgpool modules.
Delete the classifier module (or only a few layers at the bottom) and create a
new one in its place that will predict the required number of classes
corresponding to our dataset (instead of the existing 1,000).
Let's now understand how the VGG16 model is used in practice, using the
cats versus dogs dataset (considering only 500 images in each class for
training) in the following code:
The following code is available as Implementing_VGG16_for_image_classification.ipynb in
the Chapter05 folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt Be sure to
copy the URL from the notebook in GitHub to avoid any issue while reproducing the
results
1. Install the required packages:
import torch
import torchvision
import torch.nn as nn
import torch.nn.functional as F
from torchvision import transforms,models,datasets
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from PIL import Image
from torch import optim
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
import cv2, glob, numpy as np, pandas as pd
from glob import glob
import torchvision.transforms as transforms
from torch.utils.data import DataLoader, Dataset
2. Download the dataset and specify the training and test directories:
Download the dataset. Assuming that we are working on Google
Colab, we perform the following steps, where we provide the
authentication key and place it in a location where Kaggle can use
the key to authenticate us and download the dataset:
!pip install -q kaggle
from google.colab import files
files.upload()
!mkdir -p ~/.kaggle
!cp kaggle.json ~/.kaggle/
!ls ~/.kaggle
!chmod 600 /root/.kaggle/kaggle.json
Download the dataset and unzip it:

--- Strana 287 ---
!kaggle datasets download -d tongpython/cat-and-dog
!unzip cat-and-dog.zip
Specify the training and test image folders:
train_data_dir = 'training_set/training_set'
test_data_dir = 'test_set/test_set'
3. Provide the class that returns input-output pairs for the cats and dogs
dataset, just like we did in Chapter 4, Introducing Convolutional Neural
Networks. Note that, in this case, we are fetching the first 500 images
only from each folder:
class CatsDogs(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, folder):
        cats = glob(folder+'/cats/*.jpg')
        dogs = glob(folder+'/dogs/*.jpg')
        self.fpaths = cats[:500] + dogs[:500]
        self.normalize = transforms.Normalize(mean=[0.485, 
                   0.456, 0.406],std=[0.229, 0.224, 0.225])
        from random import shuffle, seed; seed(10); 
        shuffle(self.fpaths)
        self.targets =[fpath.split('/')[-1].startswith('dog') \
                        for fpath in self.fpaths] 
    def __len__(self): return len(self.fpaths)
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        f = self.fpaths[ix]
        target = self.targets[ix]
        im = (cv2.imread(f)[:,:,::-1])
        im = cv2.resize(im, (224,224))
        im = torch.tensor(im/255)
        im = im.permute(2,0,1)
        im = self.normalize(im) 
        return im.float().to(device), 
            torch.tensor([target]).float().to(device)
The main difference between the cats_dogs class in this section and in
chapter 4 is the normalize function that we are applying using the
Normalize function from the transforms module.
While leveraging pre-trained models, it is mandatory to resize, permute, and then
normalize images (as appropriate for that pre-trained model), where the images are first
scaled to a value between 0 and 1 across the 3 channels and then normalized to a mean
of [0.485, 0.456, 0.406] and a standard deviation of [0.229, 0.224, 0.225] across the
RGB channels.
4. Fetch the images and their labels:
data = CatsDogs(train_data_dir)

--- Strana 288 ---
Let's now inspect a sample image and its corresponding class:
im, label = data[200]
plt.imshow(im.permute(1,2,0).cpu())
print(label)
The preceding code results in the following output:
5. Define the model. Download the pre-trained VGG16 weights and then
freeze the features module and train using the avgpool and classifier
modules:
First, we download the pretrained VGG16 model from the models
class:
def get_model():
    model = models.vgg16(pretrained=True)
Specify that we want to freeze all the parameters in the model
downloaded previously:

--- Strana 289 ---
    for param in model.parameters():
        param.requires_grad = False
In the preceding code, we are freezing parameter updates during
backpropagation by specifying param.requires_grad = False.
Replace the avgpool module to return a feature map of size 1 x 1
instead of 7 x 7, in other words, the output is now going to be
batch_size x 512 x 1 x 1:
    model.avgpool = nn.AdaptiveAvgPool2d(output_size=(1,1))
We have seen nn.MaxPool2d, where we are picking the maximum value from every section
of a feature map. There is a counterpart to this layer called nn.AvgPool2d, which returns
the average of a section instead of the maximum. In both these layers, we fix the kernel
size. The layer above, nn.AdaptiveAvgPool2d, is yet another pooling layer with a twist. We
specify the output feature map size instead. The layer automatically computes the kernel
size so that the specified feature map size is returned. For example, if the input feature
map size dimensions were batch_size x 512 x k x k, then the pooling kernel size is going to
be k x k. The major advantage with this layer is that whatever the input size, the output
from this layer is always fixed and, hence, the neural network can accept images of any
height and width. 
Define the classifier module of the model, where we first flatten the
output of the avgpool module, connect the 512 units to the 128 units,
and perform an activation prior to connecting to the output layer:
    model.classifier = nn.Sequential(nn.Flatten(),
                                    nn.Linear(512, 128),
                                    nn.ReLU(),
                                    nn.Dropout(0.2),
                                    nn.Linear(128, 1),
                                    nn.Sigmoid())
Define the loss function (loss_fn), optimizer, and return them along
with the defined model:
    loss_fn = nn.BCELoss()
    optimizer = torch.optim.Adam(model.parameters(),lr= 1e-3)
    return model.to(device), loss_fn, optimizer
Note that in the preceding code, we have first frozen all the
parameters of the pre-trained model and have then overwritten
the avgpool and classifier modules. Now, the rest of the code is
going to look similar to what we have seen in the previous
chapter.

--- Strana 290 ---
A summary of the model is as follows:
!pip install torch_summary
from torchsummary import summary
model, criterion, optimizer = get_model()
summary(model, torch.zeros(1,3,224,224))
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 291 ---
Note that the number of trainable parameters is only 65,793 out of a total of 14.7
million, as we have frozen the features module and have overwritten the avgpool and
classifier modules. Now, only the classifier module will have weights that will be
learned.

--- Strana 292 ---
6. Define a function to train on a batch, calculate accuracy, and to get data
just like we did in Chapter 4, Introducing Convolutional Neural
Networks:
Train on a batch of data:
def train_batch(x, y, model, opt, loss_fn):
    model.train()
    prediction = model(x)
    batch_loss = loss_fn(prediction, y)
    batch_loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    return batch_loss.item()
Define a function to calculate accuracy on a batch of data:
@torch.no_grad()
def accuracy(x, y, model):
    model.eval()
    prediction = model(x)
    is_correct = (prediction > 0.5) == y
    return is_correct.cpu().numpy().tolist()
Define a function to fetch the data loaders:
def get_data():
    train = CatsDogs(train_data_dir)
    trn_dl = DataLoader(train, batch_size=32, shuffle=True, \
                            drop_last = True)
    val = CatsDogs(test_data_dir)
    val_dl = DataLoader(val, batch_size=32, shuffle=True, \
                            drop_last = True)
    return trn_dl, val_dl
Initialize the get_data and get_model functions:
trn_dl, val_dl = get_data()
model, loss_fn, optimizer = get_model()
7. Train the model over increasing epochs, just like we did in Chapter
4, Introducing Convolutional Neural Networks:
train_losses, train_accuracies = [], []
val_accuracies = []
for epoch in range(5):
    print(f" epoch {epoch + 1}/5")
    train_epoch_losses, train_epoch_accuracies = [], []
    val_epoch_accuracies = []
    for ix, batch in enumerate(iter(trn_dl)):
        x, y = batch

--- Strana 293 ---
        batch_loss = train_batch(x, y, model, optimizer, \
                                        loss_fn)
        train_epoch_losses.append(batch_loss) 
    train_epoch_loss = np.array(train_epoch_losses).mean()
    for ix, batch in enumerate(iter(trn_dl)):
        x, y = batch
        is_correct = accuracy(x, y, model)
        train_epoch_accuracies.extend(is_correct)
    train_epoch_accuracy = np.mean(train_epoch_accuracies)
    for ix, batch in enumerate(iter(val_dl)):
        x, y = batch
        val_is_correct = accuracy(x, y, model)
        val_epoch_accuracies.extend(val_is_correct)
    val_epoch_accuracy = np.mean(val_epoch_accuracies)
    train_losses.append(train_epoch_loss)
    train_accuracies.append(train_epoch_accuracy)
    val_accuracies.append(val_epoch_accuracy)
8. Plot the training and test accuracy values over increasing epochs:
epochs = np.arange(5)+1
import matplotlib.ticker as mtick
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import matplotlib.ticker as mticker
%matplotlib inline
plt.plot(epochs, train_accuracies, 'bo', 
         label='Training accuracy')
plt.plot(epochs, val_accuracies, 'r', 
         label='Validation accuracy')
plt.gca().xaxis.set_major_locator(mticker.MultipleLocator(1))
plt.title('Training and validation accuracy \
with VGG16 \nand 1K training data points')
plt.xlabel('Epochs')
plt.ylabel('Accuracy')
plt.ylim(0.95,1)
plt.gca().set_yticklabels(['{:.0f}%'.format(x*100) \
                           for x in plt.gca().get_yticks()]) 
plt.legend()
plt.grid('off')
plt.show()
This results in the following output:

--- Strana 294 ---
Note that we are able to get an accuracy of 98% within the first epoch, even
on a small dataset of 1,000 images (500 images of each class).
In addition to VGG16, there are VGG11 and VGG19 pre-trained architectures that work
just like VGG16, but with a different number of layers. VGG19 would have more
parameters than that of VGG16 as it has a higher number of layers
The training and validation accuracy when we use VGG11 and VGG19 in
place of the VGG16 pre-trained model is as follows:

--- Strana 295 ---
Note that, while the VGG19-based model has slightly better accuracy than
that of a VGG16-based model with an accuracy of 98% on validation data,
the VGG11-based model has a slightly lower accuracy of 97%.
From VGG16 to VGG19, we have increased the number of layers, and
generally, the deeper the neural network, the better its accuracy.
However, if merely increasing the number of layers is the trick, then we
could keep on adding more layers (while taking care to avoid overfitting) to
the model to get more accurate results on ImageNet and then fine-tune it for
a dataset of interest. Unfortunately, that does not turn out to be true.
There are multiple reasons why it is not that easy. Any of the following are
likely to happen as we go deeper in terms of architecture:
We have to learn a larger number of features.

--- Strana 296 ---
Vanishing gradients arise.
There is too much information modification at deeper layers.
ResNet comes into the picture to address this specific scenario of identifying
when not to learn, which we will learn about in the next section.
Understanding ResNet architecture
While building too deep a network, there are two problems. In forward
propagation, the last few layers of the network have almost no information
about what the original image was. In backpropagation, the first few layers
near the input hardly get any gradient updates due to vanishing gradients (in
other words, they are almost zero). To solve both problems, residual
networks (ResNet) use a highway-like connection that transfers raw
information from the previous few layers to the later layers. In theory, even
the last layer will have the entire information of the original image due to
this highway network. And because of the skipping layers, the backward
gradients will flow freely to the initial layers with little modification.
The term residual in the residual network is the additional information that
the model is expected to learn from the previous layer that needs to be
passed on to the next layer.
A typical residual block appears as follows:

--- Strana 297 ---
As you can see, while so far, we have been interested in extracting the F(x)
value, where x is the value coming from the previous layer, in the case of a
residual network, we are extracting not only the value after passing through
the weight layers, which is F(x), but are also summing up F(x) with the
original value, which is x.
So far, we have been using standard layers that performed either linear or
convolution transformations F(x) along with some non-linear activation. Both
of these operations in some sense destroy the input information. For the first
time, we are seeing a layer that not only transforms the input, but also
preserves it, by adding the input directly to the transformation – F(x) + x.
This way, in certain scenarios, the layer has very little burden in
remembering what the input is, and can focus on learning the correct
transformation for the task.
Let's have a more detailed look at the residual layer through code by
building a residual block:

--- Strana 298 ---
The code for this section is available as
Implementing_ResNet18_for_image_classification.ipynb in the Chapter05 folder of this book's
GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1. Define a class with the convolution operation (weight layer in the
previous diagram) in the __init__ method:
class ResLayer(nn.Module):
     def __init__(self,ni,no,kernel_size,stride=1):
        super(ResLayer, self).__init__()
        padding = kernel_size - 2
        self.conv = nn.Sequential(
                        nn.Conv2d(ni, no, kernel_size, stride, 
                                  padding=padding),
                        nn.ReLU()
                    )
Note that, in the preceding code, we defined padding as the dimension
of the output when passed through convolution, and the dimension of
the input should remain the same if we were to sum the two.
2. Define the forward method:
     def forward(self, x):
         x = self.conv(x) + x
         return x
In the preceding code, we are getting an output that is a sum of the
input passed through the convolution operations and the original
input.
Now that we have learned about how residual blocks work, let's
understand how the residual blocks are connected in a pre-trained,
residual block-based network, ResNet18:

--- Strana 299 ---
As you can see, there are 18 layers in the architecture, hence it is referred to
as a ResNet18 architecture. Furthermore, notice how the skip connections
are made across the network. It is not made at every convolution layer, but
after every two layers instead.
Now that we understand the composition of a ResNet architecture, let's build
a model based on ResNet18 architecture to classify between dogs and cats,
just like we did in the previous section using VGG16.
To build a classifier, the code up to step 3 of the VGG16 section remains the
same as it deals with importing packages, fetching data, and inspecting them.
So, we will start by understanding the composition of a pre-trained
ResNet18 model:
The code for this section is available as Resnet_block_architecture.ipynb in
the Chapter05 folder of the GitHub repository. Given that a majority of the code is similar
to the code in the VGG section, we have only provided the additional code for brevity.
For the full code, you are encouraged to check the notebook in GitHub.
1. Load the pre-trained ResNet18 model and inspect the modules within
the loaded model:
model = models.resnet18(pretrained=True).to(device)
model
The structure of the ResNet18 model contains the following
components:

--- Strana 300 ---
Convolution
Batch normalization
ReLU
MaxPooling
Four layers of ResNet blocks
Average pooling (avgpool)
A fully connected layer (fc)
As we have done in VGG16, we will freeze all the different modules,
but update the parameters in the avgpool and fc modules in the next
step.
2. Define the model architecture, loss function, and optimizer:
def get_model():
    model = models.resnet18(pretrained=True)
    for param in model.parameters():
        param.requires_grad = False
    model.avgpool = nn.AdaptiveAvgPool2d(output_size=(1,1))
    model.fc = nn.Sequential(nn.Flatten(),
    nn.Linear(512, 128),
    nn.ReLU(),
    nn.Dropout(0.2),
    nn.Linear(128, 1),
    nn.Sigmoid())
    loss_fn = nn.BCELoss()
    optimizer = torch.optim.Adam(model.parameters(),lr= 1e-3)
    return model.to(device), loss_fn, optimizer
In the preceding model, the input shape of the fc module is 512, as the
output of avgpool has the shape of batch size x 512 x 1 x 1.
Now that we have defined the model, let's execute steps 5 and 6 as per
the VGG section. The variation in training and validation accuracies
after training the model (where the model is ResNet18, ResNet34,
ResNet50, ResNet101, and ResNet152 for each of the following charts)
over increasing epochs is as follows:

--- Strana 301 ---
We see that the accuracy of the model, when trained on only 1,000 images,
varies between 97% and 98%, where accuracy increases with an increase in
the number of layers in ResNet.
Besides VGG and ResNet, some of the other prominent pre-trained models are Inception,
MobileNet, DenseNet, and SqueezeNet.
Now that we have learned about leveraging pre-trained models to predict for
a class that is binary, in the next sections, we will learn about leveraging pre-

--- Strana 302 ---
trained models to solve real-world use cases that involve the following:
Multi-regression: Prediction of multiple values given an image as
input – facial key point detection
Multi-task learning: Prediction of multiple items in a single shot – age
estimation and gender classification
Implementing facial key point
detection
So far, we have learned about predicting classes that are binary (cats versus
dogs) or are multi-label (fashionMNIST). Let's now learn a regression
problem and, in so doing, a task where we are predicting not one but several
continuous outputs. Imagine a scenario where you are asked to predict the
key points present on an image of a face, for example, the location of the
eyes, nose, and chin. In this scenario, we need to employ a new strategy to
build a model to detect the key points.
Before we dive further, let's understand what we are trying to achieve
through the following image:

--- Strana 303 ---
As you can observe in the preceding image, facial key points denote the
markings of various key points on the image that contains a face.
To solve this problem, we would have to solve a few problems first:
Images can be of different shapes:
This warrants an adjustment in the key point locations while
adjusting images to bring them all to a standard image size.
Facial key points are similar to points on a scatter plot, but scattered
based on a certain pattern this time:
This means that the values are anywhere between 0 and 224 if the
image is resized to a shape of 224 x 224 x 3.
Normalize the dependent variable (the location of facial key points) as
per the size of the image:
The key point values are always between 0 and 1 if we consider
their location relative to image dimensions.
Given that the dependent variable values are always between o and 1,
we can use a sigmoid layer at the end to fetch values that will be
between 0 and 1.

--- Strana 304 ---
Let's formulate the pipeline of solving this use case:
1. Import the relevant packages.
2. Import data.
3. Define the class that prepares the dataset:
Ensure appropriate pre-processing is done on input images to
perform transfer learning.
Ensure that the location of key points is processed in such a way
that we fetch their relative position with respect to the processed
image.
4. Define the model, loss function, and optimizer:
The loss function is the mean absolute error, as the output is a
continuous value between 0 and 1.
5. Train the model over increasing epochs.
Let's now implement the preceding steps:
The code for this section is available as Facial_keypoints_detection.ipynb in the Chapter05
folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt Be sure to copy the
URL from the notebook in GitHub to avoid any issue while reproducing the results
1. Import the relevant packages and the dataset:
import torchvision
import torch.nn as nn
import torch
import torch.nn.functional as F
from torchvision import transforms, models, datasets
from torchsummary import summary
import numpy as np, pandas as pd, os, glob, cv2
from torch.utils.data import TensorDataset,DataLoader,Dataset
from copy import deepcopy
from mpl_toolkits.mplot3d import Axes3D
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
from sklearn import cluster
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
2. Download and import the relevant data. You can download the relevant
data that contains images and their corresponding facial key points:

--- Strana 305 ---
!git clone https://github.com/udacity/P1_Facial_Keypoints.git
!cd P1_Facial_Keypoints
root_dir = 'P1_Facial_Keypoints/data/training/'
all_img_paths = glob.glob(os.path.join(root_dir, '*.jpg'))
data = pd.read_csv(\
    'P1_Facial_Keypoints/data/training_frames_keypoints.csv')
A sample of the imported dataset is as follows:
In the preceding output, column 1 represents the name of the image,
even columns represent the x-axis value corresponding to each of the
68 key points of the face, and the rest of the odd columns (except the
first column) represent the y-axis value corresponding to each of the
68 key points.
3. Define the FacesData class that provides input and output data points for
the data loader:
class FacesData(Dataset):
Now let's define the __init__ method, which takes the data frame of
the file (df) as input:
    def __init__(self, df):
        super(FacesData).__init__()
        self.df = df

--- Strana 306 ---
Define the mean and standard deviation with which images are to
be pre-processed so that they can be consumed by the pre-trained
VGG16 model:
        self.normalize = transforms.Normalize(
                                mean=[0.485, 0.456, 0.406], 
                                std=[0.229, 0.224, 0.225])
Now, define the __len__ method:
    def __len__(self): return len(self.df)
Next, we define the __getitem__ method, where we fetch the image
corresponding to a given index, scale it, fetch the key point
values corresponding to the given index, normalize the key points
so that we have the location of the key points as a proportion of
the size of the image, and pre-process the image.
Define the __getitem__ method and fetch the path of the image
corresponding to a given index (ix):
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        img_path = 'P1_Facial_Keypoints/data/training/' + \ 
                                        self.df.iloc[ix,0]
Scale the image:
        img = cv2.imread(img_path)/255.
Normalize the expected output values (key points) as a proportion
of the size of the original image:
        kp = deepcopy(self.df.iloc[ix,1:].tolist())
        kp_x = (np.array(kp[0::2])/img.shape[1]).tolist()
        kp_y = (np.array(kp[1::2])/img.shape[0]).tolist()
In the preceding code, we are ensuring that key points are
provided as a proportion of the original image's size. This is done
so that when we resize the original image, the location of the key
points is not changed, as the key points are provided as a
proportion of the original image. Furthermore, by getting key
points as a proportion of the original image, we have expected
output values that are between 0 and 1.

--- Strana 307 ---
Return the key points (kp2) and image (img) after pre-processing the
image:
        kp2 = kp_x + kp_y
        kp2 = torch.tensor(kp2) 
        img = self.preprocess_input(img)
        return img, kp2
Define the function to pre-process an image (preprocess_input):
    def preprocess_input(self, img):
        img = cv2.resize(img, (224,224))
        img = torch.tensor(img).permute(2,0,1)
        img = self.normalize(img).float()
        return img.to(device)
Define a function to load the image, which will be useful when we
want to visualize a test image and the predicted key points of the
test image:
    def load_img(self, ix):
        img_path = 'P1_Facial_Keypoints/data/training/' + \
                                        self.df.iloc[ix,0]
        img = cv2.imread(img_path)
        img = cv2.cvtColor(img, cv2.COLOR_BGR2RGB)/255.
        img = cv2.resize(img, (224,224))
        return img
4. Let's now create a training and test data split and establish training and
test datasets and data loaders:
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
train, test = train_test_split(data, test_size=0.2, \
                                random_state=101)
train_dataset = FacesData(train.reset_index(drop=True))
test_dataset = FacesData(test.reset_index(drop=True))
train_loader = DataLoader(train_dataset, batch_size=32)
test_loader = DataLoader(test_dataset, batch_size=32)
In the preceding code, we have split the training and test datasets by
person name in the input data frame and fetched their corresponding
objects.
5. Let's now define the model that we will leverage to identify key points
in an image:

--- Strana 308 ---
Load the pre-trained VGG16 model:
def get_model():
    model = models.vgg16(pretrained=True)
Ensure that the parameters of the pre-trained model are frozen first:
    for param in model.parameters():
        param.requires_grad = False
Overwrite and unfreeze the parameters of the last two layers of
the model:
    model.avgpool = nn.Sequential( nn.Conv2d(512,512,3),
                                      nn.MaxPool2d(2),
                                      nn.Flatten())
    model.classifier = nn.Sequential(
                                      nn.Linear(2048, 512),
                                      nn.ReLU(),
                                      nn.Dropout(0.5),
                                      nn.Linear(512, 136),
                                      nn.Sigmoid()
                                    )
Note that the last layer of the model in the classifier module is a
sigmoid function that returns a value between o and 1 and that the
expected output will always be between 0 and 1 as keypoint
locations are a fraction of the original image's dimensions:
Define the loss function and optimizer and return them along with
the model:
    criterion = nn.L1Loss()
    optimizer = torch.optim.Adam(model.parameters(), lr=1e-4)
    return model.to(device), criterion, optimizer
Note that the loss function is L1Loss, in other words, we are
performing mean absolute error reduction on the prediction of the
location of facial key points (which will be predicted as a
percentage of the image's width and height).
6. Get the model, loss function, and the corresponding optimizer:
model, criterion, optimizer = get_model()

--- Strana 309 ---
7. Define functions to train on a batch of data points and also to validate
on the test dataset:
Training a batch, as we have done earlier, involves fetching the
output of passing input through the model, calculating the loss
value, and performing backpropagation to update the weights:
def train_batch(img, kps, model, optimizer, criterion):
    model.train()
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    _kps = model(img.to(device))
    loss = criterion(_kps, kps.to(device))
    loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    return loss
Build a function that returns the loss on test data and the predicted
key points:
def validate_batch(img, kps, model, criterion):
    model.eval()
    with torch.no_grad(): 
        _kps = model(img.to(device))
    loss = criterion(_kps, kps.to(device))
    return _kps, loss
8. Train the model based on training the data loader and test it on test data,
as we have done hitherto in previous sections:
train_loss, test_loss = [], []
n_epochs = 50
for epoch in range(n_epochs):
    print(f" epoch {epoch+ 1} : 50")
    epoch_train_loss, epoch_test_loss = 0, 0
    for ix, (img,kps) in enumerate(train_loader):
        loss = train_batch(img, kps, model, optimizer, \
                                criterion)
        epoch_train_loss += loss.item() 
    epoch_train_loss /= (ix+1)
    for ix,(img,kps) in enumerate(test_loader):
        ps, loss = validate_batch(img, kps, model, criterion)
        epoch_test_loss += loss.item() 
    epoch_test_loss /= (ix+1)
    train_loss.append(epoch_train_loss)
    test_loss.append(epoch_test_loss)
9. Plot the training and test loss over increasing epochs:

--- Strana 310 ---
epochs = np.arange(50)+1
import matplotlib.ticker as mtick
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import matplotlib.ticker as mticker
%matplotlib inline
plt.plot(epochs, train_loss, 'bo', label='Training loss')
plt.plot(epochs, test_loss, 'r', label='Test loss')
plt.title('Training and Test loss over increasing epochs')
plt.xlabel('Epochs')
plt.ylabel('Loss')
plt.legend()
plt.grid('off')
plt.show()
The preceding code results in the following output:
10. Test our model on a random test image's index, let's say 0. Note that in
the following code, we are leveraging the load_img method in the
FacesData class that was created earlier:
ix = 0
plt.figure(figsize=(10,10))
plt.subplot(221)
plt.title('Original image')
im = test_dataset.load_img(ix)
plt.imshow(im)
plt.grid(False)
plt.subplot(222)

--- Strana 311 ---
plt.title('Image with facial keypoints')
x, _ = test_dataset[ix]
plt.imshow(im)
kp = model(x[None]).flatten().detach().cpu()
plt.scatter(kp[:68]*224, kp[68:]*224, c='r')
plt.grid(False)
plt.show()
The preceding code results in the following output:
From the preceding image, we see that the model is able to identify the facial
key points fairly accurately, given the image as an input.
In this section, we have built the facial key point detector model from
scratch. However, there are pre-trained models that are built both for 2D and
3D point detection. In the next section, we will learn about leveraging the
face alignment library to fetch 2D and 3D key points of a face.
2D and 3D facial key point detection
In this section, we will leverage a pre-trained model that can detect the 2D
and 3D key points present in a face in a few lines of code.
The following code is available as 2D_and_3D facial_keypoints.ipynb in the Chapter05 folder of
this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt Be sure to copy the URL from

--- Strana 312 ---
the notebook in GitHub to avoid any issue while reproducing the results
To work on this, we will leverage the face-alignment library:
1. Install the required packages:
!pip install -qU face-alignment
import face_alignment, cv2
2. Import the image:
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/2s7xjto7rb6q7dc/Hema.JPG
3. Define the face alignment method, where we specify whether we want
to fetch key point landmarks in 2D or 3D:
fa = face_alignment.FaceAlignment(\
                    face_alignment.LandmarksType._2D, \
                    flip_input=False, device='cpu')
4. Read the input image and provide it to the get_landmarks method:
input = cv2.imread('Hema.JPG')
preds = fa.get_landmarks(input)[0]
print(preds.shape)
# (68,2)
In the preceding lines of code, we are leveraging the get_landmarks
method in the fa class to fetch the 68 x and y coordinates
corresponding to the facial key points.
5. Plot the image with the detected key points:
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
fig,ax = plt.subplots(figsize=(5,5))
plt.imshow(cv2.cvtColor(cv2.imread('Hema.JPG'), \
                        cv2.COLOR_BGR2RGB))
ax.scatter(preds[:,0], preds[:,1], marker='+', c='r')
plt.show()
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 313 ---
Notice the scatter plot of + symbols around the 60 possible facial key
points.
In a similar manner, the 3D projections of facial key points are
obtained as follows:
fa = face_alignment.FaceAlignment(
                        face_alignment.LandmarksType._3D, 
                        flip_input=False, device='cpu')
input = cv2.imread('Hema.JPG')
preds = fa.get_landmarks(input)[0]
import pandas as pd
df = pd.DataFrame(preds)
df.columns = ['x','y','z']
import plotly.express as px
fig = px.scatter_3d(df, x = 'x', y = 'y', z = 'z')
fig.show()
Note that the only change from the code used in the 2D key points scenario
is that we specified LandmarksType to be 3D in place of 2D
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 314 ---
With the code leveraging the face_alignment library, we see that we are able to
leverage the pre-trained facial key point detection models to have high
accuracy in predicting on new images.
So far, across different use cases, we have learned the following:
Cats versus dogs: Predicting for binary classification 
FashionMNIST: Predicting for a label among 10 possible classes
Facial key points: Predicting multiple values between 0 and 1 for a
given image
In the next section, we will learn about predicting a binary class and a
regression value together in a single shot using a single network.
Multi-task learning – Implementing
age estimation and gender
classification
Multi-task learning is a branch of research where a single/few inputs are
used to predict several different but ultimately connected outputs. For

--- Strana 315 ---
example, in a self-driving car, the model needs to identify obstacles, plan
routes, give the right amount of throttle/brake and steering, to name but a
few. It needs to do all of these in a split second by considering the same set
of inputs (which would come from several sensors)
From the various use cases we have solved so far, we are in a position to
train a neural network and estimate the age of a person given an image or
predict the gender of the person given an image, separately, one task at a
time. However, we have not looked at a scenario where we will be able to
predict both age and gender in a single shot from an image. Predicting two
different attributes in a single shot is important, as the same image is used
for both predictions (this will be further appreciated as we perform object
detection in Chapter 7, Basics of Object Detection). 
In this section, we will learn about predicting both attributes, continuous and
categorical predictions, in a single forward pass.
The strategy we adopt is as follows:
1. Import the relevant packages.
2. Fetch a dataset that contains images of persons, their gender, and age
information.
3. Create training and test datasets by performing appropriate pre-
processing.
4. Build a model where the following applies:
All the layers of the model remain similar to the models we have
built so far, except for the last part.
In the last part, create two separate layers branching out from the
preceding layer, where one layer corresponds to age estimation and
the other to gender classification.
Ensure that you have different loss functions for each branch of
output, as age is a continuous value (requiring an mse or mae loss
calculation) and gender is a categorical value (requiring a cross-
entropy loss calculation).
Take a weighted summation of age estimation loss and gender
classification loss.

--- Strana 316 ---
Minimize the overall loss by performing backpropagation that
optimizes weight values.
5. Train model and predict on new images.
With the preceding strategy in place, let's code up the use case:
The code for this section is available as Age_and_gender_prediction.ipynb in the Chapter05
folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code contains
URLs to download data from. We strongly recommend you to execute the notebook on
GitHub.
1. Import the relevant packages:
import torch
import numpy as np, cv2, pandas as pd, glob, time
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
import torch.nn as nn
from torch import optim
import torch.nn.functional as F
from torch.utils.data import Dataset, DataLoader
import torchvision
from torchvision import transforms, models, datasets
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
2. Fetch the dataset:
from pydrive.auth import GoogleAuth
from pydrive.drive import GoogleDrive
from google.colab import auth
from oauth2client.client import GoogleCredentials
auth.authenticate_user()
gauth = GoogleAuth()
gauth.credentials=GoogleCredentials.get_application_default()
drive = GoogleDrive(gauth)
def getFile_from_drive( file_id, name ):
    downloaded = drive.CreateFile({'id': file_id})
    downloaded.GetContentFile(name)
getFile_from_drive('1Z1RqRo0_JiavaZw2yzZG6WETdZQ8qX86', 
                   'fairface-img-margin025-trainval.zip')
getFile_from_drive('1k5vvyREmHDW5TSM9QgB04Bvc8C8_7dl-', 
                   'fairface-label-train.csv')
getFile_from_drive('1_rtz1M1zhvS0d5vVoXUamnohB6cJ02iJ', 
                   'fairface-label-val.csv')
!unzip -qq fairface-img-margin025-trainval.zip

--- Strana 317 ---
3. The dataset we downloaded can be loaded and is structured in the
following way:
trn_df = pd.read_csv('fairface-label-train.csv')
val_df = pd.read_csv('fairface-label-val.csv')
trn_df.head()
The preceding code results in the following output:
4. Build the GenderAgeClass class that takes a filename as input and returns
the corresponding image, gender, and scaled age. We scale age as it is a
continuous number and, as we have seen in Chapter 3, Building a Deep
Neural Network with PyTorch, it is better to scale data to avoid
vanishing gradients and then rescale it during post-processing:
Provide file paths (fpaths) of images in the __init__ method:
IMAGE_SIZE = 224
class GenderAgeClass(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, df, tfms=None):
        self.df = df
        self.normalize = transforms.Normalize(
                                mean=[0.485, 0.456, 0.406], 
                                std=[0.229, 0.224, 0.225])
Define the __len__ method as the one that returns the number of
images in the input:
    def __len__(self): return len(self.df)

--- Strana 318 ---
Define the __getitem__ method that fetches information of an image
at a given position, ix: 
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        f = self.df.iloc[ix].squeeze()
        file = f.file
        gen = f.gender == 'Female'
        age = f.age
        im = cv2.imread(file)
        im = cv2.cvtColor(im, cv2.COLOR_BGR2RGB)
        return im, age, gen
Write a function that pre-processes an image, which involves
resizing the image, permuting the channels, and performing
normalization on a scaled image:
    def preprocess_image(self, im):
        im = cv2.resize(im, (IMAGE_SIZE, IMAGE_SIZE))
        im = torch.tensor(im).permute(2,0,1)
        im = self.normalize(im/255.)
        return im[None]
Create the collate_fn method, which fetches a batch of data where
the data points are pre-processed as follows:
Process each image using the process_image method.
Scale the age by 80 (the maximum age value present in the
dataset), so that all values are between 0 and 1.
Convert gender to a float value.
Image, age, and gender are each converted into torch objects
and returned:
    def collate_fn(self, batch):
        'preprocess images, ages and genders'
        ims, ages, genders = [], [], []
        for im, age, gender in batch:
            im = self.preprocess_image(im)
            ims.append(im)
            ages.append(float(int(age)/80))
            genders.append(float(gender))
        ages, genders = [torch.tensor(x).to(device).float() \
                            for x in [ages, genders]]
        ims = torch.cat(ims).to(device)
        return ims, ages, genders
5. We now define the training and validation datasets and data loaders:

--- Strana 319 ---
Create the datasets:
trn = GenderAgeClass(trn_df)
val = GenderAgeClass(val_df)
Specify the data loaders:
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
train_loader = DataLoader(trn, batch_size=32, shuffle=True, \
                    drop_last=True,collate_fn=trn.collate_fn)
test_loader = DataLoader(val, batch_size=32, 
                         collate_fn=val.collate_fn)
a,b,c, = next(iter(train_loader))
print(a.shape, b.shape, c.shape)
6. Define the model, loss function, and optimizer:
First, in the function, we load the pre-trained VGG16 model:
def get_model():
    model = models.vgg16(pretrained = True)
Next, freeze the loaded model (by specifying param.requires_grad =
False):
    for param in model.parameters():
        param.requires_grad = False
Overwrite the avgpool layer with our own layer:
    model.avgpool = nn.Sequential(
                        nn.Conv2d(512,512, kernel_size=3),
                        nn.MaxPool2d(2),
                        nn.ReLU(),
                        nn.Flatten()
                    )
Now comes the key part. We deviate from what we have learned
so far by creating two branches of outputs. This is performed as
follows:
Build a neural network class named ageGenderClassifier with the
following in the __init__ method:
    class ageGenderClassifier(nn.Module):
        def __init__(self):
            super(ageGenderClassifier, self).__init__()

--- Strana 320 ---
Define the intermediate layer calculations:
            self.intermediate = nn.Sequential(
                                    nn.Linear(2048,512),
                                    nn.ReLU(),
                                    nn.Dropout(0.4),
                                    nn.Linear(512,128),
                                    nn.ReLU(),
                                    nn.Dropout(0.4),
                                    nn.Linear(128,64),
                                    nn.ReLU(),
                                )
Defineage_classifier and gender_classifier:
            self.age_classifier = nn.Sequential(
                                        nn.Linear(64, 1),
                                        nn.Sigmoid()
                                    )
            self.gender_classifier = nn.Sequential(
                                        nn.Linear(64, 1),
                                        nn.Sigmoid()
                                    )
Note that, in the preceding code, the last layers have a sigmoid
activation since the age output will be a value between 0 and 1
(as it is scaled by 80) and gender has a sigmoid as the output is
either a 0 or a 1.
Define the forward pass method that stacks layers as intermediate first,
followed by age_classifier and then gender_classifier:
        def forward(self, x):
            x = self.intermediate(x)
            age = self.age_classifier(x)
            gender = self.gender_classifier(x)
            return gender, age
Overwrite the classifier module with the class we defined
previously:
    model.classifier = ageGenderClassifier()
Define the loss functions of both the gender (binary cross-entropy
loss) and age (L1 loss) predictions. Define the optimizer and return
the model, loss functions, and optimizer, as follows:
    gender_criterion = nn.BCELoss()
    age_criterion = nn.L1Loss()

--- Strana 321 ---
    loss_functions = gender_criterion, age_criterion
    optimizer = torch.optim.Adam(model.parameters(),lr= 1e-4)
    return model.to(device), loss_functions, optimizer
Call the get_model function to initialize values in the variables:
model, criterion, optimizer = get_model()
7. Define the function to train on a batch of data and validate on a batch of
the dataset.
The train_batch method takes an image, actual values of gender, age,
model, optimizer, and loss function, as input to calculate total loss, as
follows:
Define the train_batch method with the input arguments in place:
def train_batch(data, model, optimizer, criteria):
Specify that we are training the model, reset the optimizer to
zero_grad, and calculate the predicted value of age and gender:
    model.train()
    ims, age, gender = data
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    pred_gender, pred_age = model(ims) 
Fetch the loss functions for both age and gender before calculating
the loss corresponding to age estimation and gender classification:
    gender_criterion, age_criterion = criteria
    gender_loss = gender_criterion(pred_gender.squeeze(), \
                                    gender)
    age_loss = age_criterion(pred_age.squeeze(), age)
Calculate the overall loss by summing up gender_loss and age_loss and
perform backpropagation to reduce the overall loss by optimizing
the trainable weights of the model and return the overall loss:
    total_loss = gender_loss + age_loss
    total_loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    return total_loss
The validate_batch method takes the image, model, and loss
functions, as well as the actual values of age and gender, as input

--- Strana 322 ---
to calculate the predicted values of age and gender along with the
loss values, as follows:
Define the vaidate_batch function with proper input parameters:
def validate_batch(data, model, criteria):
Specify that we want to evaluate the model, and so no gradient
calculations are required before predicting the age and gender
values by passing the image through the model:
    model.eval()
    with torch.no_grad():
        pred_gender, pred_age = model(img)
Calculate the loss values corresponding to age and gender
predictions (gender_loss and age_loss). We squeeze the predictions
(which have a shape of (batch size, 1) so that it is reshaped to the
same shape of the original values (which has a shape of batch size):
    gender_criterion, age_criterion = criteria
    gender_loss = gender_criterion(pred_gender.squeeze(), \
                                        gender)
    age_loss = age_criterion(pred_age.squeeze(), age)
Calculate the overall loss, final predicted gender class (pred_gender),
and return the predicted gender, age, and total loss:
    total_loss = gender_loss + age_loss
    pred_gender = (pred_gender > 0.5).squeeze()
    gender_acc = (pred_gender == gender).float().sum()
    age_mae = torch.abs(age - pred_age).float().sum()
    return total_loss, gender_acc, age_mae
8. Train the model over five epochs:
Define placeholders to store the train and test loss values and also to
specify the number of epochs:
import time
model, criteria, optimizer = get_model()
val_gender_accuracies = []
val_age_maes = []
train_losses = []
val_losses = []
n_epochs = 5

--- Strana 323 ---
best_test_loss = 1000
start = time.time()
Loop through different epochs and reinitialize the train and test loss
values at the start of each epoch:
for epoch in range(n_epochs):
    epoch_train_loss, epoch_test_loss = 0, 0
    val_age_mae, val_gender_acc, ctr = 0, 0, 0
    _n = len(train_loader)
Loop through the training data loader (train_loader) and train the
model:
    for ix, data in enumerate(train_loader):
        loss = train_batch(data, model, optimizer, criteria)
        epoch_train_loss += loss.item()
Loop through the test data loader and calculate gender accuracy as
well as the mae of age:
    for ix, data in enumerate(test_loader):
        loss, gender_acc, age_mae = validate_batch(data, \
                                            model, criteria)
        epoch_test_loss += loss.item()
        val_age_mae += age_mae
        val_gender_acc += gender_acc
        ctr += len(data[0])
Calculate the overall accuracy of age prediction and gender
classification:
    val_age_mae /= ctr
    val_gender_acc /= ctr
    epoch_train_loss /= len(train_loader)
    epoch_test_loss /= len(test_loader)
Log the metrics for each epoch:
    elapsed = time.time()-start
    best_test_loss = min(best_test_loss, epoch_test_loss)
    print('{}/{} ({:.2f}s - {:.2f}s remaining)'.format(\
                    epoch+1, n_epochs, time.time()-start, \
                    (n_epochs-epoch)*(elapsed/(epoch+1))))
    info = f'''Epoch: {epoch+1:03d}
                \tTrain Loss: {epoch_train_loss:.3f}
                \tTest:\{epoch_test_loss:.3f}
                \tBest Test Loss: {best_test_loss:.4f}'''
    info += f'\nGender Accuracy: 
                {val_gender_acc*100:.2f}%\tAge MAE: \
                                    {val_age_mae:.2f}\n'
    print(info)

--- Strana 324 ---
Store the age and gender accuracy of the test dataset in each epoch:
    val_gender_accuracies.append(val_gender_acc)
    val_age_maes.append(val_age_mae)
9. Plot the accuracy of age estimation and gender prediction over
increasing epochs:
epochs = np.arange(1,(n_epochs+1))
fig,ax = plt.subplots(1,2,figsize=(10,5))
ax = ax.flat
ax[0].plot(epochs, val_gender_accuracies, 'bo')
ax[1].plot(epochs, val_age_maes, 'r')
ax[0].set_xlabel('Epochs')  ; ax[1].set_xlabel('Epochs')
ax[0].set_ylabel('Accuracy'); ax[1].set_ylabel('MAE')
ax[0].set_title('Validation Gender Accuracy')
ax[0].set_title('Validation Age Mean-Absolute-Error')
plt.show()
The preceding code results in the following output:
We are off by 6 years in terms of age prediction and are
approximately 84% accurate in predicting the gender.
10. Make a prediction of age and gender on a random test image:

--- Strana 325 ---
Fetch an image:
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/6kzr8l68e9kpjkf/5_9.JPG
Load the image and pass it through the preprocess_image method in
the trn object that we created earlier:
im = cv2.imread('/content/5_9.JPG')
im = trn.preprocess_image(im).to(device)
Pass the image through the trained model:
gender, age = model(im)
pred_gender = gender.to('cpu').detach().numpy()
pred_age = age.to('cpu').detach().numpy()
Plot the image along with printing the original and predicted values:
im = cv2.imread('/content/5_9.JPG')
im = cv2.cvtColor(im, cv2.COLOR_BGR2RGB)
plt.imshow(im)
print('predicted gender:',np.where(pred_gender[0][0]<0.5, \
                                   'Male','Female'),
      '; Predicted age', int(pred_age[0][0]*80))
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 326 ---
With the above, we can see that we are able to make predictions for both age
and gender in a single shot. However, we need to note that this is highly
unstable and that the age value varies considerably with different
orientations of the image and also lighting conditions. Data augmentation
comes in handy in such a scenario.
So far, we have learned about transfer learning, pre-trained architectures, and
how to leverage them in two different use cases. You would have also
noticed that the code is slightly on the lengthier side where we import
extensive packages manually, create empty lists to log metrics, and
constantly read/show images for debugging purposes. In the next section, we
will learn about a library that the authors have built to avoid such verbose
code.
Introducing the torch_snippets
library
As you may have noticed, we are using the same functions in almost all the
sections. It is a waste of our time to write the same lines of functions again
and again. For convenience, the authors of this book have written a Python
library by the name of torch_snippets so that our code looks short and clean.
Utilities such as reading an image, showing an image, and the entire training
loop are quite repetitive. We want to circumvent writing the same functions
over and over by wrapping them in code that is preferably a single function
call. For example, to read a color image, we need not write cv2.imread(...)
followed by cv2.cvtColor(...) every time. Instead, we can simply call read(...).
Similarly, for plt.imshow(...), there are numerous hassles, including the fact
that the size of the image should be optimal, and that the channel dimension
should be last (remember PyTorch has them first). These will always be
taken care of by the single function, show. Similar to read and show, there are
over 20 convenience functions and classes that we will be using throughout
the book. We will use torch_snippets from now on so as to focus more on
actual deep learning without distractions. Let's dive a little and understand

--- Strana 327 ---
the salient functions by training age-and-gender with this library instead so that
we can learn to use these functions and derive the maximum benefit. 
The code for this section is available as age_gender_torch_snipets.ipynb in the Chapter05
folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt . To maintain brevity,
we have only provided the additional code in this section. For the full code, we
encourage you to refer to the notebook in GitHub.
1. Install and load the library:
!pip install torch_snippets
from torch_snippets import *
Right out of the gate, the library allows us to load all the important
torch modules and utilities such as NumPy, pandas, Matplotlib, Glob,
Os, and more.
2. Download the data and create a dataset as in the previous section.
Create a dataset class, GenderAgeClass, with a few changes, which are
shown in bold in the following code:
class GenderAgeClass(Dataset):
    ...
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        ...
        age = f.age
        im = read(file, 1)
        return im, age, gen
    def preprocess_image(self, im):
        im = resize(im, IMAGE_SIZE)
        im = torch.tensor(im).permute(2,0,1)
        ...
In the preceding code block, the line im = read(file, 1) is
wrapping cv2.imread and cv2.COLOR_BGR2RGB into a single function call.
The "1" stands for "read as color image", and if not given, will load a
black and white image by default. There is also a resize function that
wraps cv2.resize. Next, let's look at the show function. 
3. Specify the training and validation datasets and view the sample
images:
trn = GenderAgeClass(trn_df)
val = GenderAgeClass(val_df)
train_loader = DataLoader(trn, batch_size=32, shuffle=True, \

--- Strana 328 ---
                  drop_last=True, collate_fn=trn.collate_fn)
test_loader = DataLoader(val, batch_size=32, \
                         collate_fn=val.collate_fn)
im, gen, age = trn[0]
show(im, title=f'Gender: {gen}\nAge: {age}', sz=5)
As we are dealing with images throughout the book, it makes sense
to wrap import matplotlib.pyplot as plt and plt.imshow into a function.
Calling show(<2D/3D-Tensor>) will do exactly that. Unlike Matplotlib, it
can plot torch arrays present on the GPU, irrespective of whether the
image contains a channel as the first dimension or the last dimension.
The keyword title will plot a title with the image, and the
keyword sz (short for size) will plot a larger/smaller image based on
the integer value passed (if not passed, sz will pick a sensible default
based on image resolution). During object detection chapters, we will
use the same function to show bounding boxes as well. Check
out help(show) for more arguments. Let's create some datasets here and
inspect the first batch of images along with their targets.
4. Create data loaders and inspect the tensors. Inspecting tensors for their
data type, min, mean, max, and shape is such a common activity that it
is wrapped as a function. It can accept any number of tensor inputs:
train_loader = DataLoader(trn, batch_size=32, shuffle=True, \
                drop_last=True, collate_fn=trn.collate_fn)
test_loader = DataLoader(val, batch_size=32, \
                         collate_fn=val.collate_fn)
ims, gens, ages = next(iter(train_loader))
inspect(ims, gens, ages)
The inspect output will look like this:
============================================================
Tensor Shape: torch.Size([32, 3, 224, 224]) Min: -2.118 Max: 2.640 Mean: 
0.133 dtype: torch.float32
============================================================
Tensor Shape: torch.Size([32]) Min: 0.000 Max: 1.000 Mean: 0.594 dtype: 
torch.float32 
============================================================
Tensor Shape: torch.Size([32]) Min: 0.087 Max: 0.925 Mean: 0.400 dtype: 
torch.float32 
============================================================
5. Create model, optimizer, loss_functions, train_batch, and validate_batch as
usual. As each deep learning experiment is unique, there aren't any

--- Strana 329 ---
wrapper functions for this step.
In this section, we will leverage the get_model, train_batch, and validate_batch functions that
we defined in the previous section. For brevity, we are not providing the code in this
section. However, all the relevant code is available in the corresponding notebook in
GitHub.
6. Finally, we need to load all the components and start training. Log the
metrics over increasing epochs.
This is a highly repetitive loop with minimal changes required. We
will always loop over a fixed number of epochs, first over the train
data loader, and then over the validation data loader. Each batch is
called using either train_batch or validate_batch, every time that you
have to create empty lists of metrics and keep track of them after
training/ validation. At the end of an epoch, you have to print the
averages of all of these metrics and repeat the task. It is also helpful
that you know how long (in seconds) each epoch /batch is going to
train for. Finally, at the end of the training, it is common to plot the
same metrics using matplotlib. All of these are wrapped into a single
utility called Report. It is a Python class that has different methods to
understand. The bold parts in the following code highlight
the functionality of Report:
model, criterion, optimizer = get_model()
n_epochs = 5
log = Report(n_epochs)
for epoch in range(n_epochs):
    N = len(train_loader)
    for ix, data in enumerate(train_loader):
        total_loss,gender_loss,age_loss = train_batch(data, \
                                  model, optimizer, criterion)
        log.record(epoch+(ix+1)/N, trn_loss=total_loss, \
                                                end='\r')
    N = len(test_loader)
    for ix, data in enumerate(test_loader):
        total_loss,gender_acc,age_mae = validate_batch(data, \
                                             model, criterion)
        gender_acc /= len(data[0])
        age_mae /= len(data[0])
        log.record(epoch+(ix+1)/N, val_loss=total_loss, \
                   val_gender_acc=gender_acc, \
                   val_age_mae=age_mae, end='\r')
    log.report_avgs(epoch+1)
log.plot_epochs()

--- Strana 330 ---
The Report class is instantiated with the only argument, the number of
epochs to be trained on, and is instantiated just before the start of
training.
At each train/validation step, we can call the Report.record method
with exactly one positional argument, which is the position (in terms
of batch number) of training/ validation we are at (typically, this is (
epoch_number + (1+batch number)/(total_N_batches) ). Following the
positional argument, we pass a bunch of keyword arguments that we
are free to choose. If it's training loss that needs to be captured, the
keyword argument could be trn_loss. In the preceding, we are logging
four metrics, trn_loss, val_loss, val_gender_acc, and val_age_mae, without
creating a single empty list.
Not only does it record, but it will also print the same losses in the
output. The use of '\r' as an end argument is a special way of saying
replace this line the next time a new set of losses are to be recorded.
Furthermore, Report will compute the time remaining for training and
validation automatically and print that too.
Report will remember when the metric was logged and print all the
average metrics at that epoch when the Report.report_avgs function is
called. This will be a permanent print.
Finally, the same average metrics are plotted as a line chart in the
function call Report.plot_epochs, without the need for formatting (you
can also use Report.plot for plotting every batch metric of the entire
training, but this might look messy). The same function can
selectively plot metrics if asked for. By way of an example, in the
preceding case, if you are interested in plotting only the trn_loss and
val_loss metrics, this can be done by calling log.plot_epochs(['trn_loss,
'val_loss']) or even simply log.plot_epochs('_loss'). It will search for a
string match with all the metrics and figure out what metrics we are
asking for.
Once training is complete, the output for the preceding code snippet
should look like this:

--- Strana 331 ---
Note that the output has corresponding training and validation dataset loss and
accuracy values for age and gender values, even though we did not initialize any empty
lists to log those metrics in the training and validation dataset (which we did in the
previous sections)
7. Load a sample image and effect a prediction:
!wget -q https://www.dropbox.com/s/6kzr8l68e9kpjkf/5_9.JPG
IM = read('/content/5_9.JPG', 1)
im = trn.preprocess_image(IM).to(device)
gender, age = model(im)
pred_gender = gender.to('cpu').detach().numpy()
pred_age = age.to('cpu').detach().numpy()

--- Strana 332 ---
info = f'predicted gender: {np.where(pred_gender[0][0]<0.5, \
"Male","Female")}\n Predicted age {int(pred_age[0][0]*80)}'
show(IM, title=info, sz=10)
To summarize, here are the important functions (and the functions they are
wrapped around) that we will use in the rest of the book wherever needed:
from torch_snippets import *
Glob (glob.glob)
Choose (np.random.choice)
Read (cv2.imread)
Show (plt.imshow)
Subplots (plt.subplots – show a list of images)
Inspect (tensor.min, tensor.mean, tensor.max, tensor.shape, and tensor.dtype –
statistics of several tensors)
Report (keeping track of all metrics while training and plotting them
after training)
You can view the complete list of functions by running torch_snippets;
print(dir(torch_snippets)). For each function, you can print its help using
help(function) or even simply ??function in a Jupyter notebook. With the
understanding of leveraging torch_snippets, you should be able to simplify
code considerably. You will notice this in action starting with the next
chapter.
Summary
In this chapter, we have learned about how transfer learning helps to achieve
high accuracy, even with a smaller number of data points. We have also
learned about the popular pre-trained models, VGG and ResNet.
Furthermore, we understood how to build models when we are trying to
predict different scenarios, such as the location of key points on a face and
combining loss values while training a model to predict for both age and
gender together, where age is of a certain data type and gender is of a
different data type.

--- Strana 333 ---
With this foundation of image classification through transfer learning, in the
next chapter, we will learn about some of the practical aspects of training an
image classification model. We will learn about how to explain a model and
also learn the tricks of how to train a model to achieve high accuracy and
finally, learn the pitfalls that a practitioner needs to avoid while
implementing a trained model.
Questions
1. What are VGG and ResNet pre-trained architectures trained on?
2. Why does VGG11 have an inferior accuracy to VGG16?
3. What does the number 11 in VGG11 represent?
4. What is residual in the residual network?
5. What is the advantage of a residual network?
6. What are the various popular pre-trained models?
7. During transfer learning, why should images be normalized with the
same mean and standard deviation as those that were used during the
training of a pre-trained model?
8. Why do we freeze certain parameters in a model?
9. How do we know the various modules that are present in a pre-trained
model?
10. How do we train a model that predicts categorical and numerical values
together?
11. Why might age and gender prediction code not always work for an
image of your own interest if we execute the same code as we wrote in
the age and gender estimation section?
12. How can we further improve the accuracy of the facial keypoint
recognition model that we wrote about in the facial key points
prediction section?

--- Strana 334 ---
Practical Aspects of Image
Classification
In previous chapters, we learned about leveraging convolutional neural
networks (CNNs) along with pre-trained models to perform image
classification. This chapter will further solidify our understanding of CNNs
and the various practical aspects to be considered when leveraging them in
real-world applications. We will start by understanding the reasons why
CNNs predict the classes that they do by using class activation maps
(CAMs). Following this, we will understand the various data augmentations
that can be done to improve the accuracy of a model. Finally, we will learn
about the various instances where models could go wrong in the real world
and highlight the aspects that should be taken care of in such scenarios to
avoid pitfalls.
The following topics will be covered in this chapter:
Generating CAMs
Understanding the impact of batch normalization and data
augmentation
Practical aspects to take care of during model implementation
Generating CAMs
Imagine a scenario where you have built a model that is able to make good
predictions. However, the stakeholder that you are presenting the model to
wants to understand the reason why the model predictions are as they are.
CAMs come in handy in this scenario. An example CAM is as follows,
where we have the input image on the left and the pixels that were used to
come up with the class prediction highlighted on the right:

--- Strana 335 ---
Let's understand how CAMs can be generated once a model is trained.
Feature maps are intermediate activations that come after a convolution
operation. Typically, the shape of these activation maps is n-channels x height
x width. If we take the mean of all these activations, they show the hotspots of
all the classes in the image. But if we are interested in locations that
are only important for a particular class (say, cat), we need to figure out only
those feature maps among n-channels that are responsible for that class. For
the convolution layer that generated these feature maps, we can compute its
gradients with respect to the cat class. Note that only those channels that are
responsible for predicting cat will have a high gradient. This means that we
can use the gradient information to give weightage to each of n-channels and
obtain an activation map exclusively for cat.

--- Strana 336 ---
Now that we understand the high-level strategy of how to generate CAMs,
let's put it into practice step by step:
1. Decide for which class you want to calculate the CAM and for which
convolutional layer in the neural network you want to compute the
CAM.
2. Calculate the activations arising from any convolutional layer – let's say
the feature shape at a random convolution layer is 512 x 7 x 7.
3. Fetch the gradient values arising from this layer with respect to the
class of interest. The output gradient shape is 256 x 512 x 3 x 3 (which
is the shape of the convolutional tensor – that is, in-channels x out-
channels x kernel-size x kernel-size).
4. Compute the mean of the gradients within each output channel. The
output shape is 512.
5. Calculate the weighted activation map – which is the multiplication of
the 512 gradient means by the 512 activation channels. The output
shape is 512 x 7 x 7.
6. Compute the mean (across 512 channels) of the weighted activation
map to fetch an output of the shape 7 x 7.
7. Resize (upscale) the weighted activation map outputs to fetch an image
of a size that is of the same size as the input. This is done so that we
have an activation map that resembles the original image.
8. Overlay the weighted activation map onto the input image.
The following diagram from the paper Grad-CAM: Gradient-weighted Class
Activation Mapping (https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.02391) pictorially describes the
preceding steps:

--- Strana 337 ---
The key to the entire process lies in step 5. We consider two aspects of the
step:
If a certain pixel is important, then the CNN will have a large activation
at those pixels.
If a certain convolutional channel is important with respect to the
required class, the gradients at that channel will be very large.
On multiplying these two, we indeed end up with a map of importance
across all the pixels.
The preceding strategy is implemented in code to understand the reason why
the CNN model predicts that an image indicates the likelihood of an incident
of malaria, as follows:
The following code is available as Class_activation_maps.ipynb in the Chapter06 folder of this
book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code contains URLs to
download data from and is moderately lengthy. We strongly recommend you to execute
the notebook in GitHub to reproduce results while you understand the steps to perform
and explanation of various code components in text.
1. Download the dataset and import the relevant packages:

--- Strana 338 ---
import os
if not os.path.exists('cell_images'):
    !pip install -U -q torch_snippets
    !wget -q ftp://lhcftp.nlm.nih.gov/Open-Access-Datasets/
     Malaria/cell_images.zip
    !unzip -qq cell_images.zip
    !rm cell_images.zip
from torch_snippets import *
2. Specify the indices corresponding to the output classes:
id2int = {'Parasitized': 0, 'Uninfected': 1}
3. Perform the transformations to be done on top of the images:
from torchvision import transforms as T
trn_tfms = T.Compose([
                T.ToPILImage(),
                T.Resize(128),
                T.CenterCrop(128),
                T.ColorJitter(brightness=(0.95,1.05), 
                              contrast=(0.95,1.05), 
                              saturation=(0.95,1.05), 
                              hue=0.05),
                T.RandomAffine(5, translate=(0.01,0.1)),
                T.ToTensor(),
                T.Normalize(mean=[0.5, 0.5, 0.5], 
                            std=[0.5, 0.5, 0.5]),
            ])
In the preceding code, we have a pipeline of transformations on top
of the input image – which is a pipeline of resizing the image (which
ensures that the minimum size of one of the dimensions is 128, in this
case) and then cropping it from the center. Furthermore, we are
performing random color jittering and affine transformation. Next,
we are scaling an image using the .ToTensor method to have a value
between 0 and 1, and finally, we are normalizing the image. As
discussed in Chapter 4, Introducing Convolutional Neural Networks,
we can also use the imgaug library.
Specify the transformations to be done on the validation images:
val_tfms = T.Compose([
                T.ToPILImage(),
                T.Resize(128),
                T.CenterCrop(128),
                T.ToTensor(),
                T.Normalize(mean=[0.5, 0.5, 0.5], 
                            std=[0.5, 0.5, 0.5]),
            ])

--- Strana 339 ---
4. Define the dataset class – MalariaImages:
class MalariaImages(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, files, transform=None):
        self.files = files
        self.transform = transform
        logger.info(len(self))
    def __len__(self):
        return len(self.files)
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        fpath = self.files[ix]
        clss = fname(parent(fpath))
        img = read(fpath, 1)
        return img, clss
    def choose(self):
        return self[randint(len(self))]
    def collate_fn(self, batch):
        _imgs, classes = list(zip(*batch))
        if self.transform:
            imgs = [self.transform(img)[None] \
                    for img in _imgs]
        classes = [torch.tensor([id2int[clss]]) \
                   for class in classes]
        imgs, classes = [torch.cat(i).to(device) \
                         for i in [imgs, classes]]
        return imgs, classes, _imgs
5. Fetch the training and validation datasets and dataloaders:
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
all_files = Glob('cell_images/*/*.png')
np.random.seed(10)
np.random.shuffle(all_files)
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
trn_files, val_files = train_test_split(all_files, \
                                        random_state=1)
trn_ds = MalariaImages(trn_files, transform=trn_tfms)
val_ds = MalariaImages(val_files, transform=val_tfms)
trn_dl = DataLoader(trn_ds, 32, shuffle=True, 
                    collate_fn=trn_ds.collate_fn)
val_dl = DataLoader(val_ds, 32, shuffle=False, 
                    collate_fn=val_ds.collate_fn)
6. Define the model – MalariaClassifier:
def convBlock(ni, no):
    return nn.Sequential(
        nn.Dropout(0.2),
        nn.Conv2d(ni, no, kernel_size=3, padding=1),
        nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
        nn.BatchNorm2d(no),

--- Strana 340 ---
        nn.MaxPool2d(2),
    )
    
class MalariaClassifier(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
        self.model = nn.Sequential(
            convBlock(3, 64),
            convBlock(64, 64),
            convBlock(64, 128),
            convBlock(128, 256),
            convBlock(256, 512),
            convBlock(512, 64),
            nn.Flatten(),
            nn.Linear(256, 256),
            nn.Dropout(0.2),
            nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
            nn.Linear(256, len(id2int))
        )
        self.loss_fn = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
    def forward(self, x):
        return self.model(x)
    def compute_metrics(self, preds, targets):
        loss = self.loss_fn(preds, targets)
        acc =(torch.max(preds, 1)[1]==targets).float().mean()
        return loss, acc
7. Define the functions to train and validate on a batch of data:
def train_batch(model, data, optimizer, criterion):
    model.train()
    ims, labels, _ = data
    _preds = model(ims)
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    loss, acc = criterion(_preds, labels)
    loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    return loss.item(), acc.item()
@torch.no_grad()
def validate_batch(model, data, criterion):
    model.eval()
    ims, labels, _ = data
    _preds = model(ims)
    loss, acc = criterion(_preds, labels)
    return loss.item(), acc.item()
8. Train the model over increasing epochs:
model = MalariaClassifier().to(device)
criterion = model.compute_metrics
optimizer = optim.Adam(model.parameters(), lr=1e-3)
n_epochs = 2
log = Report(n_epochs)
for ex in range(n_epochs):
    N = len(trn_dl)

--- Strana 341 ---
    for bx, data in enumerate(trn_dl):
        loss, acc = train_batch(model, data, optimizer, \
                                    criterion)
        log.record(ex+(bx+1)/N,trn_loss=loss,trn_acc=acc, \
                                    end='\r')
    N = len(val_dl)
    for bx, data in enumerate(val_dl):
        loss, acc = validate_batch(model, data, criterion)
        log.record(ex+(bx+1)/N,val_loss=loss,val_acc=acc, \
                                    end='\r')
        
    log.report_avgs(ex+1)
9. Fetch the convolution layer in the fifth convBlock in the model:
im2fmap = nn.Sequential(*(list(model.model[:5].children())+ \
                        list(model.model[5][:2].children())))
In the preceding line of code, we are fetching the fourth layer of the
model and also the first two layers within convBlock – which happens
to be the Conv2D layer.
10. Define the im2gradCAM function that takes an input image and fetches the
heatmap corresponding to activations of the image:
def im2gradCAM(x):
    model.eval()
    logits = model(x)
    heatmaps = []
    activations = im2fmap(x)
    print(activations.shape)
    pred = logits.max(-1)[-1]
    # get the model's prediction
    model.zero_grad()
    # compute gradients with respect to 
    # model's most confident logit
    logits[0,pred].backward(retain_graph=True)
    # get the gradients at the required featuremap location
    # and take the avg gradient for every featuremap
    pooled_grads = model.model[-7][1]\
                        .weight.grad.data.mean((0,2,3))
    # multiply each activation map with 
    # corresponding gradient average
    for i in range(activations.shape[1]):
        activations[:,i,:,:] *= pooled_grads[i]
    # take the mean of all weighted activation maps
    # (that has been weighted by avg. grad at each fmap)
    heatmap =torch.mean(activations, dim=1)[0].cpu().detach()
    return heatmap, 'Uninfected' if pred.item() \
else 'Parasitized'

--- Strana 342 ---
11. Define the upsampleHeatmap function to up-sample the heatmap to a shape
that corresponds to the shape of the image:
SZ = 128
def upsampleHeatmap(map, img):
    m,M = map.min(), map.max()
    map = 255 * ((map-m) / (M-m))
    map = np.uint8(map)
    map = cv2.resize(map, (SZ,SZ))
    map = cv2.applyColorMap(255-map, cv2.COLORMAP_JET)
    map = np.uint8(map)
    map = np.uint8(map*0.7 + img*0.3)
    return map
In the preceding lines of code, we are de-normalizing the image and
also overlaying the heatmap on top of the image.
12. Run the preceding functions on a set of images:
N = 20
_val_dl = DataLoader(val_ds, batch_size=N, shuffle=True, \
                     collate_fn=val_ds.collate_fn)
x,y,z = next(iter(_val_dl))
for i in range(N):
    image = resize(z[i], SZ)
    heatmap, pred = im2gradCAM(x[i:i+1])
    if(pred=='Uninfected'):
        continue
    heatmap = upsampleHeatmap(heatmap, image)
    subplots([image, heatmap], nc=2, figsize=(5,3), \
                suptitle=pred)
The output of the preceding code is as follows:

--- Strana 343 ---
From this, we can see that the prediction is as it is because of the content that
is highlighted in red (which has the highest CAM value).
Now that we have learned about generating class activation heatmaps for
images using a trained model, we are in a position to explain what makes a
certain classification so.
In the next section, let's learn about additional tricks around data
augmentation that can help when building models.
Understanding the impact of data
augmentation and batch
normalization
One clever way of improving the accuracy of models is by leveraging data
augmentation. We have already seen this in Chapter 4,  Introducing
Convolutional Neural Networks, where we used data augmentation to
improve the accuracy of classification on a translated image. In the real
world, you would encounter images that have different properties – for
example, some images might be much brighter, some might contain objects

--- Strana 344 ---
of interest near the edges, and some images might be more jittery than
others. In this section, we will learn about how the usage of data
augmentation can help in improving the accuracy of a model. Furthermore,
we will learn about how data augmentation can practically be a pseudo-
regularizer for our models.
To understand the impact of data augmentation and batch normalization, we
will go through a dataset of recognizing traffic signs. We will evaluate three
scenarios:
No batch normalization/data augmentation
Only batch normalization, but no data augmentation
Both batch normalization and data augmentation
Note that given that the dataset and processing remain the same across the
three scenarios, and only the data augmentation and model (the addition of
the batch normalization layer) differ, we will only provide the following
code for the first scenario, but the other two scenarios are available in the
notebook on GitHub.
Coding up road sign detection
Let's code up for road sign detection without data augmentation and batch
normalization, as follows:
Note that we are not explaining the code here, as it is very much inline with the code that
we have gone through in previous chapters – only the lines with bold font are different
across the three scenarios. The following code is available as road_sign_detection.ipynb in
the Chapter06 folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1. Download the dataset and import the relevant packages:
import os
if not os.path.exists('GTSRB'):
    !pip install -U -q torch_snippets
    !wget -qq https://sid.erda.dk/public/archives/
        daaeac0d7ce1152aea9b61d9f1e19370/
        GTSRB_Final_Training_Images.zip
    !wget -qq https://sid.erda.dk/public/archives/
        daaeac0d7ce1152aea9b61d9f1e19370/
        GTSRB_Final_Test_Images.zip
    !unzip -qq GTSRB_Final_Training_Images.zip

--- Strana 345 ---
    !unzip -qq GTSRB_Final_Test_Images.zip
    !wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/georgesung/
     traffic_sign_classification_german/master/signnames.csv
    !rm GTSRB_Final_Training_Images.zip 
       GTSRB_Final_Test_Images.zip
from torch_snippets import *
2. Assign the class IDs to possible output classes:
classIds = pd.read_csv('signnames.csv')
classIds.set_index('ClassId', inplace=True)
classIds = classIds.to_dict()['SignName']
classIds = {f'{k:05d}':v for k,v in classIds.items()}
id2int = {v:ix for ix,(k,v) in enumerate(classIds.items())}
3. Define the transformation pipeline on top of the images without any
augmentation:
from torchvision import transforms as T
trn_tfms = T.Compose([
                T.ToPILImage(),
                T.Resize(32),
                T.CenterCrop(32),
                # T.ColorJitter(brightness=(0.8,1.2), 
                # contrast=(0.8,1.2), 
                # saturation=(0.8,1.2), 
                # hue=0.25),
                # T.RandomAffine(5, translate=(0.01,0.1)),
                T.ToTensor(),
                T.Normalize(mean=[0.485, 0.456, 0.406], 
                            std=[0.229, 0.224, 0.225]),
            ])
val_tfms = T.Compose([
                T.ToPILImage(),
                T.Resize(32),
                T.CenterCrop(32),
                T.ToTensor(),
                T.Normalize(mean=[0.485, 0.456, 0.406], 
                            std=[0.229, 0.224, 0.225]),
            ])
In the preceding code, we are specifying that we convert each image
into a PIL image and resize and crop the image from the center.
Furthermore, we are scaling the image to have pixel values that are
between 0 and 1 using the .ToTensor method. Finally, we are
normalizing the input image so that a pre-trained model can be
leveraged.
The commented part of the preceding code is what you should uncomment and re-run to
understand the scenario of performing data augmentation. Furthermore, we are not

--- Strana 346 ---
performing augmentations on val_tfms as those images are not used during the training
of the model. However, the val_tfms images should go through the same transformation
pipeline as trn_tfms.
4. Define the dataset class – GTSRB:
class GTSRB(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, files, transform=None):
        self.files = files
        self.transform = transform
        logger.info(len(self))
    def __len__(self):
        return len(self.files)
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        fpath = self.files[ix]
        clss = fname(parent(fpath))
        img = read(fpath, 1)
        return img, classIds[clss]
    def choose(self):
        return self[randint(len(self))]
    def collate_fn(self, batch):
        imgs, classes = list(zip(*batch))
        if self.transform:
            imgs =[self.transform(img)[None] \
                   for img in imgs]
        classes = [torch.tensor([id2int[clss]]) \
                   for clss in classes]
        imgs, classes = [torch.cat(i).to(device) \
                         for i in [imgs, classes]]
        return imgs, classes
5. Create the training and validation datasets and dataloaders:
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
all_files = Glob('GTSRB/Final_Training/Images/*/*.ppm')
np.random.seed(10)
np.random.shuffle(all_files)
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
trn_files, val_files = train_test_split(all_files, \
                                        random_state=1)
trn_ds = GTSRB(trn_files, transform=trn_tfms)
val_ds = GTSRB(val_files, transform=val_tfms)
trn_dl = DataLoader(trn_ds, 32, shuffle=True, \
                    collate_fn=trn_ds.collate_fn)
val_dl = DataLoader(val_ds, 32, shuffle=False, \
                    collate_fn=val_ds.collate_fn)
6. Define the model – SignClassifier:

--- Strana 347 ---
import torchvision.models as models
def convBlock(ni, no):
    return nn.Sequential(
                nn.Dropout(0.2),
                nn.Conv2d(ni, no, kernel_size=3, padding=1),
                nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
                #nn.BatchNorm2d(no),
                nn.MaxPool2d(2),
            )
    
class SignClassifier(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
        self.model = nn.Sequential(
                        convBlock(3, 64),
                        convBlock(64, 64),
                        convBlock(64, 128),
                        convBlock(128, 64),
                        nn.Flatten(),
                        nn.Linear(256, 256),
                        nn.Dropout(0.2),
                        nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
                        nn.Linear(256, len(id2int))
                    )
        self.loss_fn = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
    def forward(self, x):
        return self.model(x)
    def compute_metrics(self, preds, targets):
        ce_loss = self.loss_fn(preds, targets)
        acc =(torch.max(preds, 1)[1]==targets).float().mean()
        return ce_loss, acc
Make sure to uncomment the line in bold in the preceding code when you are testing the
model with the BatchNormalization scenario.
7. Define the functions to train and validate on a batch of data,
respectively:
def train_batch(model, data, optimizer, criterion):
    model.train()
    ims, labels = data
    _preds = model(ims)
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    loss, acc = criterion(_preds, labels)
    loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    return loss.item(), acc.item()
@torch.no_grad()
def validate_batch(model, data, criterion):
    model.eval()
    ims, labels = data
    _preds = model(ims)
    loss, acc = criterion(_preds, labels)
    return loss.item(), acc.item()

--- Strana 348 ---
8. Define the model and train it over increasing epochs:
model = SignClassifier().to(device)
criterion = model.compute_metrics
optimizer = optim.Adam(model.parameters(), lr=1e-3)
n_epochs = 50
log = Report(n_epochs)
for ex in range(n_epochs):
    N = len(trn_dl)
    for bx, data in enumerate(trn_dl):
        loss, acc = train_batch(model, data, optimizer, \
                                    criterion)
        log.record(ex+(bx+1)/N,trn_loss=loss, trn_acc=acc, \
                                     end='\r')
    N = len(val_dl)
    for bx, data in enumerate(val_dl):
        loss, acc = validate_batch(model, data, criterion)
        log.record(ex+(bx+1)/N, val_loss=loss, val_acc=acc, \
                                    end='\r')
        
    log.report_avgs(ex+1)
    if ex == 10: optimizer = optim.Adam(model.parameters(), \
                                    lr=1e-4)
The lines of code that are bold are the ones that you would change in the
three scenarios. The results of the three scenarios in terms of training and
validation accuracy are as follows:
Augment
Batch-Norm
Train Accuracy
Validation Accuracy
No
No
95.9
94.5
No
Yes
99.3
97.7
Yes
Yes
97.7
97.6
 
Note that in the preceding three scenarios, we see the following:
The model did not have as high accuracy when there was no batch
normalization.
The accuracy of the model increased considerably but also the model
overfitted on training data when we had batch normalization only but
no data augmentation.

--- Strana 349 ---
The model with both batch normalization and data augmentation had
high accuracy and minimal overfitting (as the training and validation
loss values are very similar).
With the importance of batch normalization and data augmentation in place,
in the next section, we will learn about some key aspects to take care of
when training/implementing our image classification models.
Practical aspects to take care of
during model implementation
So far, we have seen the various ways of building an image classification
model. In this section, we will learn about some of the practical
considerations that need to be taken care of when building models. The ones
we will discuss in this chapter are as follows:
Dealing with imbalanced data
The size of an object within an image when performing classification
The difference between training and validation images
The number of convolutional and pooling layers in a network
Image sizes to train on GPUs
Leveraging OpenCV utilities
Dealing with imbalanced data
Imagine a scenario where you are trying to predict an object that occurs very
rarely within our dataset – let's say in 1% of the total images. For example,
this can be the task of predicting whether an X-ray image suggests a
rare lung infection.
How do we measure the accuracy of the model that is trained to predict the
rare lung infection? If we simply predict a class of no infection for all
images, the accuracy of classification is 99%, while still being useless. A
confusion matrix that depicts the number of times the rare object class has

--- Strana 350 ---
occurred and the number of times the model predicted the rare object class
correctly comes in handy in this scenario. Thus, the right set of metrics to
look at in this scenario is the metrics related to the confusion matrix.
A typical confusion matrix looks as follows:
In the preceding confusion matrix, 0 stands for no infection and 1 stands for
infection. Typically, we would fill up the matrix to understand how accurate
our model is.
Next comes the question of ensuring that the model gets trained. Typically,
the loss function (binary or categorical cross-entropy) takes care of ensuring
that the loss values are high when the amount of misclassification is high.
However, in addition to the loss function, we can also assign a higher weight
to the rarely occurring class, thereby ensuring that we explicitly mention to
the model that we want to correctly classify the rare class images.
In addition to assigning class weights, we have already seen that image
augmentation and/or transfer learning help considerably in improving the
accuracy of the model. Furthermore, when augmenting an image, we can
over-sample the rare class images to increase their mix in the overall
population.
The size of the object within an image
Imagine a scenario where the presence of a small patch within a large image
dictates the class of the image – for example, lung infection identification
where the presence of certain tiny nodules indicates an incident of the
disease. In such a scenario, image classification is likely to result in
inaccurate results, as the object occupies a smaller portion of the entire

--- Strana 351 ---
image. Object detection comes in handy in this scenario (which we will
study in the next chapter).
A high-level intuition to solve these problems would be to first divide the
input images into smaller grid cells (let's say a 10 x 10 grid) and then
identify whether a grid cell contains the object of interest.
Dealing with the difference between training and
validation data
Imagine a scenario where you have built a model to predict whether the
image of an eye indicates that the person is likely to be suffering from
diabetic retinopathy. To build the model, you have collected data, curated it,
cropped it, normalized it, and then finally built a model that has very high
accuracy on validation images. However, hypothetically, when the model is
used in a real setting (let's say by a doctor/nurse), the model is not able to
predict well. Let's understand a few possible reasons why:
Are the images taken at the doctor's office similar to the images used to
train the model?
Images used when training and real-world images could be very
different if you built a model on a curated set of data that has all the
preprocessing done, while the images taken at the doctor's end are
non-curated.
Images could be different if the device used to capture images at the
doctor's office has a different resolution of capturing images when
compared to the device used to collect images that are used for
training.
Images can be different if there are different lighting conditions at
which the images are getting captured in both places.
Are the subjects (images) representative enough of the overall
population?
Images are representative if they are trained on images of the male
population but are tested on the female population, or if, in general,
the training and real-world images correspond to different
demographics.

--- Strana 352 ---
Is the training and validation split done methodically?
Imagine a scenario where there are 10,000 images and the first
5,000 images belong to one class and the last 5,000 images belong
to another class. When building a model, if we do not randomize
but split the dataset into training and validation with consecutive
indices (without random indices), we are likely to see a higher
representation of one class while training and of the other class
during validation.
In general, we need to ensure that the training, validation, and real-world
images all have similar data distribution before an end user leverages the
system.
The number of nodes in the flatten layer
Consider a scenario where you are working on images that are 300 x 300 in
dimensions. Technically, we can perform more than five convolutional
pooling operations to get the final layer that has as many features as
possible. Furthermore, we can have as many channels as we want in this
scenario within a CNN. Practically, though, in general, we would design a
network so that it has 500–5,000 nodes in the flatten layer.
As we saw in Chapter 4, Introducing Convolutional Neural Networks, if we
have a greater number of nodes in the flatten layer, we would have a very
high number of parameters when the flatten layer is connected to the
subsequent dense layer before connecting to the final classification layer. 
In general, it is good practice to have a pre-trained model that obtains the
flatten layer so that relevant filters are activated as appropriate. Furthermore,
when leveraging pre-trained models, make sure to freeze the parameters of
the pre-trained model.
Generally, the number of trainable parameters in a CNN can be anywhere
between 1 million to 10 million in a less complex classification exercise.
Image size

--- Strana 353 ---
Let's say we are working on images that are of very high dimensions – for
example, 2,000 x 1,000 in shape. When working on such large images, we
need to consider the following possibilities:
Can the images be resized to lower dimensions? Images of objects
might not lose information if resized; however, images of text
documents might lose considerable information if resized to a smaller
size.
Can we have a lower batch size so that the batch fits into GPU
memory? Typically, if we are working with large images, there is a
good chance that for the given batch size, the GPU memory is not
sufficient to perform computations on the batch of images.
Do certain portions of the image contain the majority of the
information, and hence can the rest of the image be cropped?
Leveraging OpenCV utilities
OpenCV is an open source package that has extensive modules that help in
fetching information from images (more on OpenCV utilities in Chapter
18, Using OpenCV Utilities for Image Analysis). It was one of the most
prominent libraries used prior to the deep learning revolution in computer
vision. Traditionally, it has been built on top of multiple hand-engineered
features and at the time of writing this book, OpenCV has a few packages
that integrate deep learning models' outputs.
Imagine a scenario where you have to move a model to production; less
complexity is generally preferable in such a scenario – sometimes even at
the cost of accuracy. If any OpenCV module solves the problem that you are
already trying to solve, in general, it should be preferred over building a
model (unless building a model from scratch gives a considerable boost in
accuracy than leveraging off-the-shelf modules).
Summary

--- Strana 354 ---
In this chapter, we learned about multiple practical aspects that we need to
take into consideration when building CNN models – batch normalization,
data augmentation, explaining the outcomes using CAMs, and some
scenarios that you need to be aware of when moving a model to production.
In the next chapter, we will switch gears and learn about the fundamentals of
object detection – where we will not only identify the classes corresponding
to objects in an image but also draw a bounding box around the location of
the object.
Questions
1. How are CAMs obtained?
2. How do batch normalization and data augmentation help when training
a model?
3. What are the common reasons why a CNN model overfits?
4. What are the various scenarios where the CNN model works with
training and validation data at the data scientists' end but not in the real
world?
5. What are the various scenarios where we leverage OpenCV packages?

--- Strana 355 ---
Basics of Object Detection
So far, in the previous chapters, we learned about performing image
classification. Imagine a scenario where we are leveraging computer vision
for a self-driving car. It is not only necessary to detect whether the image of
a road contains the images of vehicles, a sidewalk, and pedestrians, but it is
also important to identify where those objects are located. Various
techniques of object detection that we will study in this chapter and the next
will come in handy in such a scenario.
In this chapter and the next, we will learn about some of the techniques for
performing object detection. We will start by learning about the
fundamentals—labeling the ground truth of bounding box objects using a
tool named ybat, extracting region proposals using the selectivesearch method,
and defining the accuracy of bounding box predictions by using the
Intersection over Union (IoU) metric and the mean average precision
metric. After this, we will learn about two region proposal-based networks –
R-CNN and Fast R-CNN, by first learning about their working details and
then implementing them on a dataset that contains images belonging to
trucks and buses.
The following topics will be covered in this chapter:
Introducing object detection
Creating a bounding box ground truth for training
Understanding region proposals
Understanding IoU, non-max suppression, and mean average precision
Training R-CNN-based custom object detectors
Training Fast R-CNN-based custom object detectors
Introducing object detection
With the rise of autonomous cars, facial detection, smart video surveillance,
and people-counting solutions, fast and accurate object detection systems are
in great demand. These systems include not only object classification from

--- Strana 356 ---
an image, but also location of each one of the objects by drawing appropriate
bounding boxes around them. This (drawing bounding boxes and
classification) makes object detection a harder task than its traditional
computer vision predecessor, image classification.
To understand what the output of object detection looks like, let's go through
the following diagram:
In the preceding diagram, we can see that, while a typical object
classification merely mentions the class of object present in the image,
object localization draws a bounding box around the objects present in the
image. Object detection, on the other hand, would involve drawing the
bounding boxes around individual objects in the image, along with
identifying the class of object within a bounding box across the multiple
objects present in the image.
Before we understand the broad use cases of object detection, let's
understand how it adds to the object classification task that we have covered
in the previous chapter.
Imagine a scenario where you have multiple objects in an image. I ask you
to predict the class of objects present in the image. For example, let's say
that the image contains both cats and dogs. How would you classify such
images? Object detection comes in handy in such a scenario, where it not

--- Strana 357 ---
only predicts the location of objects (bounding box) present in it, but also
predicts the class of object present within the individual bounding boxes.
Some of the various use cases leveraging object detection include the
following:
Security: This can be useful for recognizing intruders.
Autonomous cars: This can be helpful in recognizing the various
objects present on the image of a road.
Image searching: This can help identify the images containing an
object (or a person) of interest.
Automotives: This can help in identifying a number plate within the
image of a car.
In all the preceding cases, object detection is leveraged to draw bounding
boxes around a variety of objects present within the image.
In this chapter, we will learn about predicting the class of the object and also
having a tight bounding box around the object in the image, which is the
localization task. We will also learn about detecting the class corresponding
to multiple objects in the picture, along with a bounding box around each
object, which is the object detection task.
Training a typical object detection model involves the following steps:
1. Creating ground truth data that contains labels of the bounding box and
class corresponding to various objects present in the image.
2. Coming up with mechanisms that scan through the image to identify
regions (region proposals) that are likely to contain objects. In this
chapter, we will learn about leveraging region proposals generated by a
method named selective search. In the next chapter, we will learn about
leveraging anchor boxes to identify regions containing objects. In the
chapter on combining computer vision and NLP techniques (Chapter
15), we will learn about leveraging positional embeddings in
transformers to aid in identifying the regions containing an object.
3. Creating the target class variable by using the IoU metric.
4. Creating the target bounding box offset variable to make corrections to
the location of region proposal coming in the second step.

--- Strana 358 ---
5. Building a model that can predict the class of object along with the
target bounding box offset corresponding to the region proposal.
6. Measuring the accuracy of object detection using mean Average
Precision (mAP).
Now that we have a high-level overview of what is to be done to train an
object detection model, we will learn about creating the dataset for a
bounding box (which is the first step in building an object detection model)
in the next section.
Creating a bounding box ground
truth for training
We have learned that object detection gives us the output where a bounding
box surrounds the object of interest in an image. For us to build an algorithm
that detects the bounding box surrounding the object in an image, we would
have to create the input-output combinations, where the input is the image
and the output is the bounding boxes surrounding the objects in the given
image, and the classes corresponding to the objects.
Note that when we detect the bounding box, we are detecting the pixel locations of the
four corners of the bounding box surrounding the image.
To train a model that provides the bounding box, we need the image, and
also the corresponding bounding box coordinates of all the objects in an
image. In this section, we will learn about one way to create the training
dataset, where the image is the input and the corresponding bounding boxes
and classes of objects are stored in an XML file as output. We will use the
ybat tool to annotate the bounding boxes and the corresponding classes.
Let's understand about installing and using ybat to create (annotate) bounding
boxes around objects in the image. Furthermore, we will also be inspecting
the XML files that contain the annotated class and bounding box information
in the following section.

--- Strana 359 ---
Installing the image annotation tool
Let's start by downloading ybat-master.zip from the following GitHub link, htt
ps://github.com/drainingsun/ybat, and unzip it. Post unzipping, store it in a folder
of your choice. Open ybat.html using a browser of your choice and you will
see an empty page. The following screenshot shows a sample of what the
folder looks like and how to open the ybat.html file:
Before we start creating the ground truth corresponding to an image, let's
specify all the possible classes that we want to label across images and store
in the classes.txt file as follows:

--- Strana 360 ---
Now, let's prepare the ground truth corresponding to an image. This involves
drawing a bounding box around objects (persons in the following diagram)
and assigning labels/classes to the objects present in the image in the
following steps:
1. Upload all the images you want to annotate (step number 1 in the
following image).
2. Upload the classes.txt file (step number 2 in the following image).
3. Label each image by first selecting the filename and then drawing a
crosshair around each object you want to label (step number 3 in the
following image). Before drawing a crosshair, ensure you select the
correct class in the classes region (the classes pane below the second
oval in the following image).
4. Save the data dump in the desired format (step number 4 in the
following image). Each format was independently developed by a
different research team, and all are equally valid. Based on their
popularity and convenience, every implementation prefers a different
format.
All these steps can be better represented using the following diagram:

--- Strana 361 ---
For example, when we download the PascalVOC format, it downloads a zip
of XML files. A snapshot of the XML file after drawing the rectangular
bounding box is as follows:

--- Strana 362 ---

--- Strana 363 ---
From the preceding screenshot, note that the bndbox field contains the
coordinates of the minimum and maximum values of the x and y coordinates
corresponding to the objects of interest in the image. We should also be able
to extract the classes corresponding to the objects in the image using the name
field.
Now that we understand how to create a ground truth of objects (class label
and bounding box) present in an image, in the following sections, we will
dive into the building blocks of recognizing objects in an image. First, we
will talk about region proposals that help in highlighting the portions of the
image that are most likely to contain an object.
Understanding region proposals
Imagine a hypothetical scenario where the image of interest contains a
person and sky in the background. Furthermore, for this scenario, let's
assume that there is little change in pixel intensity of the background (sky)
and that there is a considerable change in pixel intensity of the foreground
(the person). 
Just from the preceding description itself, we can conclude that there are two
primary regions here – one is of the person and the other is of the sky.
Furthermore, within the region of the image of a person, the pixels
corresponding to hair will have a different intensity to the pixels
corresponding to the face, establishing that there can be multiple sub-regions
within a region.
Region proposal is a technique that helps in identifying islands of regions
where the pixels are similar to one another.
Generating a region proposal comes in handy for object detection where we
have to identify the locations of objects present in the image. Furthermore,
given a region proposal generates a proposal for the region, it aids in object
localization where the task is to identify a bounding box that fits exactly
around the object in the image. We will learn how region proposals assist in

--- Strana 364 ---
object localization and detection in a later section on Training R-CNN-based
custom object detectors, but let's first understand how to generate region
proposals from an image.
Leveraging SelectiveSearch to generate region
proposals
SelectiveSearch is a region proposal algorithm used for object localization
where it generates proposals of regions that are likely to be grouped together
based on their pixel intensities. SelectiveSearch groups pixels based on the
hierarchical grouping of similar pixels, which, in turn, leverages the color,
texture, size, and shape compatibility of content within an image.
Initially, SelectiveSearch over-segments an image by grouping pixels based
on the preceding attributes. Next, it iterates through these over-segmented
groups and groups them based on similarity. At each iteration, it combines
smaller regions to form a larger region.
Let's understand the selectivesearch process through the following example:
The following code is available as Understanding_selectivesearch.ipynb in the Chapter07
folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt Be sure to copy the
URL from the notebook in GitHub to avoid any issue while reproducing the results
1. Install the required packages:
!pip install selectivesearch
!pip install torch_snippets
from torch_snippets import *
import selectivesearch
from skimage.segmentation import felzenszwalb
2. Fetch and load the required image:
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/l98leemr7r5stnm/Hemanvi.jpeg
img = read('Hemanvi.jpeg', 1)
3. Extract the felzenszwalb segments (which are obtained based on the color,
texture, size, and shape compatibility of content within an image) from
the image:

--- Strana 365 ---
segments_fz = felzenszwalb(img, scale=200)
Note that in the felzenszwalb method, scale represents the number of
clusters that can be formed within the segments of the image. The
higher the value of scale, the greater the detail of the original image
that is preserved.
4. Plot the original image and the image with segmentation:
subplots([img, segments_fz], \
         titles=['Original Image',\
                 'Image post\nfelzenszwalb segmentation'],\
         sz=10, nc=2)
The preceding code results in the following output:
From the preceding output, note that pixels that belong to the same group
have similar pixel values.
Pixels that have similar values form a region proposal. This now helps in object
detection, as we now pass each region proposal to a network and ask it to predict
whether the region proposal is a background or an object. Furthermore, if it is an object,
it would help us to identify the offset to fetch the tight bounding box corresponding to the
object and also the class corresponding to the content within the region proposal.

--- Strana 366 ---
Now that we understand what SelectiveSearch does, let's implement the
selectivesearch function to fetch region proposals for the given image.
Implementing SelectiveSearch to generate region
proposals
In this section, we will define the extract_candidates function using
selectivesearch so that it can be leveraged in the subsequent sections on
training R-CNN- and Fast R-CNN-based custom object detectors:
1. Define the extract_candidates function that fetches the region proposals
from an image:
Define the function that takes an image as the input parameter:
def extract_candidates(img):
Fetch the candidate regions within the image using the
selective_search method available in the selectivesearch package:
    img_lbl, regions = selectivesearch.selective_search(img, \
                                     scale=200, min_size=100)
Calculate the image area and initialize a list (candidates) that we
will use to store the candidates that pass a defined threshold:
    img_area = np.prod(img.shape[:2])
    candidates = []
Fetch only those candidates (regions) that are over 5% of the total
image area and less than or equal to 100% of the image area and
return them:
    for r in regions:
        if r['rect'] in candidates: continue
        if r['size'] < (0.05*img_area): continue
        if r['size'] > (1*img_area): continue
        x, y, w, h = r['rect']
        candidates.append(list(r['rect']))
    return candidates
2. Import the relevant packages and fetch an image:

--- Strana 367 ---
!pip install selectivesearch
!pip install torch_snippets
from torch_snippets import *
import selectivesearch
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/l98leemr7r5stnm/Hemanvi.jpeg
img = read('Hemanvi.jpeg', 1)
3. Extract candidates and plot them on top of an image:
candidates = extract_candidates(img)
show(img, bbs=candidates)
The preceding code generates the following output:
The grids in the preceding diagram represent the candidate regions (region
proposals) coming from the selective_search method.
Now that we understand region proposal generation, one question remains
unanswered. How do we leverage region proposals for object detection and
localization?
A region proposal that has a high intersection with the location (ground
truth) of an object in the image of interest is labeled as the one that contains

--- Strana 368 ---
the object, and a region proposal with a low intersection is labeled as
background.
In the next section, we will learn about how to calculate the intersection of a
region proposal candidate with a ground truth bounding box in our journey
to understanding the various techniques that form the backbone of building
an object detection model.
Understanding IoU
Imagine a scenario where we came up with a prediction of a bounding box
for an object. How do we measure the accuracy of our prediction? The
concept of Intersection over Union (IoU) comes in handy in such a
scenario.
Intersection within the term Intersection over Union measures how
overlapping the predicted and actual bounding boxes are, while Union
measures the overall space possible for overlap. IoU is the ratio of the
overlapping region between the two bounding boxes over the combined
region of both the bounding boxes.
This can be represented in a diagram as follows:

--- Strana 369 ---
In the preceding diagram of two bounding boxes (rectangles), let's consider
the left bounding box as the ground truth and the right bounding box as the
predicted location of the object. IoU as a metric is the ratio of the
overlapping region over the combined region between the two bounding
boxes.
In the following diagram, you can observe the variation in the IoU metric as
the overlap between bounding boxes varies:

--- Strana 370 ---
From the preceding diagram, we can see that as the overlap decreases, IoU
decreases and, in the final one, where there is no overlap, the IoU metric is
0.
Now that we have an intuition of measuring IoU, let's implement it in code
and create a function to calculate IoU as we will leverage it in the sections of
training R-CNN and training Fast R-CNN.
The following code is available as Calculating_Intersection_Over_Union.ipynb in the Chapter07
folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
Let's define a function that takes two bounding boxes as input and returns
IoU as the output:
1. Specify the get_iou function that takes boxA and boxB as inputs where
boxA and boxB are two different bounding boxes (you can consider boxA as
the ground truth bounding box and boxB as the region proposal):
def get_iou(boxA, boxB, epsilon=1e-5):
We define the epsilon parameter to address the rare scenario when the
union between the two boxes is 0, resulting in a division by zero
error. Note that in each of the bounding boxes, there will be four
values corresponding to the four corners of the bounding box.
2. Calculate the coordinates of the intersection box:

--- Strana 371 ---
    x1 = max(boxA[0], boxB[0])
    y1 = max(boxA[1], boxB[1])
    x2 = min(boxA[2], boxB[2])
    y2 = min(boxA[3], boxB[3])
Note that x1 is storing the maximum value of the left-most x-value
between the two bounding boxes. Similarly, y1 is storing the topmost
y-value and x2 and y2 are storing the right-most x-value and bottom-
most y-value, respectively, corresponding to the intersection part.
3. Calculatewidth and height corresponding to the intersection area
(overlapping region):
    width = (x2 - x1) 
    height = (y2 - y1)
4. Calculate the area of overlap (area_overlap):
    if (width<0) or (height <0):
        return 0.0
    area_overlap = width * height
Note that, in the preceding code, we specify that if the width or
height corresponding to the overlapping region is less than 0, the area
of intersection is 0. Otherwise, we calculate the area of overlap
(intersection) similar to the way a rectangle's area is calculated –
width multiplied by the height.
5. Calculate the combined area corresponding to the two bounding boxes:
    area_a = (boxA[2] - boxA[0]) * (boxA[3] - boxA[1])
    area_b = (boxB[2] - boxB[0]) * (boxB[3] - boxB[1])
    area_combined = area_a + area_b - area_overlap
In the preceding code, we have calculated the combined area of the
two bounding boxes – area_a and area_b, and then subtracted the
overlapping area while calculating area_combined as area_overlap is
counted twice, once when calculating area_a and then when
calculating area_b.
6. Calculate the IoU and return it:
    iou = area_overlap / (area_combined+epsilon)
    return iou

--- Strana 372 ---
In the preceding code, we calculated iou as the ratio of the area of overlap
(area_overlap) over the area of the combined region (area_combined) and
returning it.
So far, we have learned about creating ground truth and calculating IoU,
which helps in preparing training data. Next, the object detection models
will come in handy in detecting objects in the image. Finally, we will
calculate model performance and infer on a new image.
We will hold off on building a model until the forthcoming sections as
training a model is more involved and we would also have to learn a few
more components before we train it. In the next section, we will learn about
non-max suppression, which helps in shortlisting from the different possible
predicted bounding boxes around an object when inferring using the trained
model on a new image.
Non-max suppression
Imagine a scenario where multiple region proposals are generated and
significantly overlap one another. Essentially, all the predicted bounding box
coordinates (offsets to region proposals) significantly overlap one another.
For example, let's consider the following image, where multiple region
proposals are generated for the person in the image:

--- Strana 373 ---
In the preceding image, I ask you to identify the box among the many region
proposals that we will consider as the one containing an object and the boxes
that we will discard. Non-max suppression comes in handy in such a
scenario. Let's unpack the term "Non-max suppression."
Non-max refers to the boxes that do not contain the highest probability of
containing an object, and suppression refers to us discarding those boxes
that do not contain the highest probabilities of containing an object. In non-
max suppression, we identify the bounding box that has the highest
probability and discard all the other bounding boxes that have an IoU greater
than a certain threshold with the box containing the highest probability of
containing an object.
In PyTorch, non-max suppression is performed using the nms function in
the torchvision.ops module. The nms function takes the bounding box
coordinates, the confidence of the object in the bounding box, and the
threshold of IoU across bounding boxes, to identify the bounding boxes to

--- Strana 374 ---
be retained. You will be leveraging the nms function when predicting object
classes and bounding boxes of objects in a new image in both the Training
R-CNN-based custom object detectors and Training Fast R-CNN-based
custom object detectors sections in steps 19 and 16, respectively.
Mean average precision
So far, we have looked at getting an output that comprises a bounding box
around each object within the image and the class corresponding to the
object within the bounding box. Now comes the next question: How do we
quantify the accuracy of the predictions coming from our model?
mAP comes to the rescue in such a scenario. Before we try to understand
mAP, let's first understand precision, then average precision, and finally,
mAP:
Precision: Typically, we calculate precision as:
A true positive refers to the bounding boxes that predicted the correct
class of objects and that have an IoU with the ground truth that is
greater than a certain threshold. A false positive refers to the
bounding boxes that predicted the class incorrectly or have an
overlap that is less than the defined threshold with the ground truth.
Furthermore, if there are multiple bounding boxes that are identified
for the same ground truth bounding box, only one box can get into a
true positive, and everything else gets into a false positive.
Average Precision: Average precision is the average of precision
values calculated at various IoU thresholds.
mAP: mAP is the average of precision values calculated at various IoU
threshold values across all the classes of objects present within the
dataset.

--- Strana 375 ---
So far, we have learned about preparing a training dataset for our model,
performing non-max suppression on the model's predictions, and calculating
its accuracies. In the following sections, we will learn about training a model
(R-CNN-based and Fast R-CNN-based) to detect objects in new images.
Training R-CNN-based custom
object detectors
R-CNN stands for Region-based Convolutional Neural Network. Region-
based within R-CNN stands for the region proposals. Region proposals are
used to identify objects within an image. Note that R-CNN assists in
identifying both the objects present in the image and the location of objects
within the image.
In the following sections, we will learn about the working details of R-CNN
before training it on our custom dataset.
Working details of R-CNN
Let's get an idea of R-CNN-based object detection at a high level using the
following diagram:
Image source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1311.2524.pdf

--- Strana 376 ---
We perform the following steps when leveraging the R-CNN technique for
object detection:
1. Extract region proposals from an image:
Ensure that we extract a high number of proposals to not miss out
on any potential object within the image.
2. Resize (warp) all the extracted regions to get images of the same size.
3. Pass the resized region proposals through a network:
Typically, we pass the resized region proposals through a pretrained
model such as VGG16 or ResNet50 and extract the features in a
fully connected layer.
4. Create data for model training, where the input is features extracted by
passing the region proposals through a pretrained model, and the
outputs are the class corresponding to each region proposal and the
offset of the region proposal from the ground truth corresponding to the
image:
If a region proposal has an IoU greater than a certain threshold with
the object, we prepare training data in such a way that the region is
responsible for predicting the class of object it is overlapping with
and also the offset of region proposal with the ground truth
bounding box that contains the object of interest.
A sample as a result of creating a bounding box offset and a ground
truth class for a region proposal is as follows:

--- Strana 377 ---
In the preceding image, o (in red) represents the center of the region
proposal (dotted bounding box) and x represents the center of the
ground truth bounding box (solid bounding box) corresponding to the
cat class. We calculate the offset between the region proposal
bounding box and the ground truth bounding box as the difference
between center co-ordinates of the two bounding boxes (dx, dy) and
the difference between the height and width of the bounding boxes
(dw, dh).
5. Connect two output heads, one corresponding to the class of image and
the other corresponding to the offset of region proposal with the ground
truth bounding box to extract the fine bounding box on the object:
This exercise would be similar to the use case where we predicted
gender (categorical variable, analogous to the class of object in this
case study) and age (continuous variable, analogous to the offsets to
be done on top of region proposals) based on the image of the face
of a person in the previous chapter.
6. Train the model post, writing a custom loss function that minimizes
both object classification error and the bounding box offset error.
Note that the loss function that we will minimize differs from the loss
function that is optimized in the original paper. We are doing this to reduce
the complexity associated with building R-CNN and Fast R-CNN from
scratch. Once the reader is familiar with how the model works and can build

--- Strana 378 ---
a model using the following code, we highly encourage them to implement
the original paper from scratch.
In the next section, we will learn about fetching datasets and creating data
for training. In the section after that, we will learn about designing the model
and training it before predicting the class of objects present and their
bounding boxes in a new image.
Implementing R-CNN for object detection on a
custom dataset
So far, we have a theoretical understanding of how R-CNN works. In this
section, we will learn about creating data for training. This process involves
the following steps:
1. Downloading the dataset
2. Preparing the dataset
3. Defining the region proposals extraction and IoU calculation functions
4. Creating the training data
Creating input data for the model
Resizing the region proposals
Passing them through a pretrained model to fetch the fully
connected layer values
Creating output data for the model
Labeling each region proposal with a class or background label
Defining the offset of the region proposal from the ground truth
if the region proposal corresponds to an object and not
background
5. Defining and training the model
6. Predicting on new images
Let's get started with coding in the following sections.
Downloading the dataset

--- Strana 379 ---
For the scenario of object detection, we will download the data from the
Google Open Images v6 dataset (available at https://storage.googleapis.com/open
images/v5/test-annotations-bbox.csv). However, in code, we will work on only
those images that are of a bus or a truck to ensure that we can train images
(as you will shortly notice the memory issues associated with using
selectivesearch). We will expand the number of classes (more classes in
addition to bus and truck) we will train on in Chapter 10, Applications of
Object Detection and Segmentation.
The following code is available as Training_RCNN.ipynb in the Chapter07 folder of this book's
GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code contains URLs to download data
from and is moderately lengthy. We strongly recommend you to execute the notebook in
GitHub to reproduce results while you understand the steps to perform and explanation
of the various code components from text.
1. Import the relevant packages to download files that contain images and
their ground truths:
!pip install -q --upgrade selectivesearch torch_snippets
from torch_snippets import *
import selectivesearch
from google.colab import files
files.upload() # upload kaggle.json file 
!mkdir -p ~/.kaggle
!mv kaggle.json ~/.kaggle/
!ls ~/.kaggle
!chmod 600 /root/.kaggle/kaggle.json
!kaggle datasets download -d sixhky/open-images-bus-trucks/
!unzip -qq open-images-bus-trucks.zip
from torchvision import transforms, models, datasets
from torch_snippets import Report
from torchvision.ops import nms
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
Once we execute the preceding code, we would have the images and their
corresponding ground truths stored in a CSV file available.
Preparing the dataset
Now that we have downloaded the dataset, we will prepare the dataset. This
involves the following steps:
1. Fetching each image and its corresponding class and bounding box
values

--- Strana 380 ---
2. Fetching the region proposals within each image, their corresponding
IoU, and the delta by which the region proposal is to be corrected with
respect to the ground truth
3. Assigning numeric labels for each class (where we have an additional
background class (besides the bus and truck classes) where IoU with
the ground truth bounding box is below a threshold)
4. Resizing each region proposal to a common size in order to pass them
to a network
By the end of this exercise, we will have resized crops of region proposals,
along with assigning the ground truth class to each region proposal, and
calculated the offset of the region proposal in relation to the ground truth
bounding box. We will continue coding from where we left off in the
preceding section:
1. Specify the location of images and read the ground truths present in the
CSV file that we downloaded:
IMAGE_ROOT = 'images/images'
DF_RAW = pd.read_csv('df.csv')
print(DF_RAW.head())
A sample of the preceding data frame is as follows:
Note that XMin, XMax, YMin, and YMax correspond to the ground truth of the
bounding box of the image. Furthermore, LabelName provides the class
of image.
2. Define a class that returns the image and its corresponding class and
ground truth along with the file path of the image:
Pass the data frame (df) and the path to the folder containing
images (image_folder) as input to the __init__ method and fetch the
unique ImageID values present in the data frame (self.unique_images).

--- Strana 381 ---
We do so, as an image can contain a multiple number of objects and
so multiple rows can correspond to the same ImageID value:
class OpenImages(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, df, image_folder=IMAGE_ROOT):
        self.root = image_folder
        self.df = df
        self.unique_images = df['ImageID'].unique()
    def __len__(self): return len(self.unique_images)
Define the __getitem__ method, where we fetch the image (image_id)
corresponding to an index (ix), fetch its bounding box co-ordinates
(boxes), classes, and return the image, bounding box, class, and image
path:
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        image_id = self.unique_images[ix]
        image_path = f'{self.root}/{image_id}.jpg'
        # Convert BGR to RGB
        image = cv2.imread(image_path, 1)[...,::-1] 
        h, w, _ = image.shape
        df = self.df.copy()
        df = df[df['ImageID'] == image_id]
        boxes = df['XMin,YMin,XMax,YMax'.split(',')].values
        boxes = (boxes*np.array([w,h,w,h])).astype(np.uint16)\
                                           .tolist()
        classes = df['LabelName'].values.tolist()
        return image, boxes, classes, image_path
3. Inspect a sample image and its corresponding class and bounding box
ground truth:
ds = OpenImages(df=DF_RAW)
im, bbs, clss, _ = ds[9]
show(im, bbs=bbs, texts=clss, sz=10)
The preceding code results in the following:

--- Strana 382 ---
4. Define the extract_iou and extract_candidates functions:
def extract_candidates(img):
    img_lbl,regions = selectivesearch.selective_search(img, \
                                    scale=200, min_size=100)
    img_area = np.prod(img.shape[:2])
    candidates = []
    for r in regions:
        if r['rect'] in candidates: continue
        if r['size'] < (0.05*img_area): continue
        if r['size'] > (1*img_area): continue
        x, y, w, h = r['rect']
        candidates.append(list(r['rect']))
    return candidates
def extract_iou(boxA, boxB, epsilon=1e-5):
    x1 = max(boxA[0], boxB[0])
    y1 = max(boxA[1], boxB[1])
    x2 = min(boxA[2], boxB[2])
    y2 = min(boxA[3], boxB[3])
    width = (x2 - x1)
    height = (y2 - y1)
    if (width<0) or (height <0):
        return 0.0
    area_overlap = width * height
    area_a = (boxA[2] - boxA[0]) * (boxA[3] - boxA[1])
    area_b = (boxB[2] - boxB[0]) * (boxB[3] - boxB[1])
    area_combined = area_a + area_b - area_overlap
    iou = area_overlap / (area_combined+epsilon)
    return iou
By now, we have defined all the functions necessary to prepare data and
initialize data loaders. In the next section, we will fetch region proposals
(input regions to the model) and the ground truth of the bounding box offset
along with the class of object (expected output).

--- Strana 383 ---
Fetching region proposals and the ground truth of offset
In this section, we will learn about creating the input and output values
corresponding to our model. The input constitutes the candidates that are
extracted using the selectivesearch method and the output constitutes the class
corresponding to candidates and the offset of the candidate with respect to
the bounding box it overlaps the most with if the candidate contains an
object. We will continue coding from where we ended in the preceding
section:
1. Initialize empty lists to store file paths (FPATHS), ground truth bounding
boxes (GTBBS), classes (CLSS) of objects, the delta offset of a bounding box
with region proposals (DELTAS), region proposal locations (ROIS), and the
IoU of region proposals with ground truths (IOUS):
FPATHS, GTBBS, CLSS, DELTAS, ROIS, IOUS = [],[],[],[],[],[]
2. Loop through the dataset and populate the lists initialized above:
For this exercise, we can use all the data points for training or
illustrate with just the first 500 data points. You can choose between
either of the two, which dictates the training time and training
accuracy (the greater the data points, the greater the training time
and accuracy):
N = 500
for ix, (im, bbs, labels, fpath) in enumerate(ds):
    if(ix==N):
        break
In the preceding code, we are specifying that we will work on
500 images.
Extract candidates from each image (im) in absolute pixel values
(note that XMin, Xmax, YMin, and YMax are available as a proportion of the
shape of images in the downloaded data frame) using the
extract_candidates function and convert the extracted regions
coordinates from an (x,y,w,h) system to an (x,y,x+w,y+h) system:
    H, W, _ = im.shape
    candidates = extract_candidates(im)

--- Strana 384 ---
    candidates = np.array([(x,y,x+w,y+h) \
                           for x,y,w,h in candidates])
Initialize ious, rois, deltas, and clss as lists that store iou for each
candidate, region proposal location, bounding box offset, and class
corresponding to every candidate for each image. We will go
through all the proposals from SelectiveSearch and store those with
a high IOU as bus/truck proposals (whichever is the class in labels)
and the rest as background proposals:
    ious, rois, clss, deltas = [], [], [], []
Store the IoU of all candidates with respect to all ground truths for
an image where bbs is the ground truth bounding box of different
objects present in the image and candidates are the region proposal
candidates obtained in the previous step:
    ious = np.array([[extract_iou(candidate, _bb_) for \
                candidate in candidates] for _bb_ in bbs]).T
Loop through each candidate and store the XMin (cx), YMin (cy),
XMax (cX), and YMax (cY) values of a candidate:
    for jx, candidate in enumerate(candidates):
        cx,cy,cX,cY = candidate
Extract the IoU corresponding to the candidate with respect to all
the ground truth bounding boxes that were already calculated when
fetching the list of lists of ious:
        candidate_ious = ious[jx]
Find the index of a candidate (best_iou_at) that has the highest IoU
and the corresponding ground truth (best_bb):
        best_iou_at = np.argmax(candidate_ious)
        best_iou = candidate_ious[best_iou_at]
        best_bb = _x,_y,_X,_Y = bbs[best_iou_at]
If IoU (best_iou) is greater than a threshold (0.3), we assign the label
of class corresponding to the candidate, and the background
otherwise:

--- Strana 385 ---
        if best_iou > 0.3: clss.append(labels[best_iou_at])
        else : clss.append('background')
Fetch the offsets needed (delta) to transform the current proposal
into the candidate that is the best region proposal (which is the
ground truth bounding box) – best_bb, in other words, how much
should the left, right, top, and bottom margins of the current
proposal be adjusted so that it aligns exactly with best_bb from the
ground truth:
        delta = np.array([_x-cx, _y-cy, _X-cX, _Y-cY]) /\
                    np.array([W,H,W,H])
        deltas.append(delta)
        rois.append(candidate / np.array([W,H,W,H]))
Append the file paths, IoU, roi, class delta, and ground truth
bounding boxes:
    FPATHS.append(fpath)
    IOUS.append(ious)
    ROIS.append(rois)
    CLSS.append(clss)
    DELTAS.append(deltas)
    GTBBS.append(bbs)
Fetch the image path names and store all the information
obtained, FPATHS, IOUS, ROIS, CLSS, DELTAS, and GTBBS, in a list of lists:
FPATHS = [f'{IMAGE_ROOT}/{stem(f)}.jpg' for f in FPATHS] 
FPATHS, GTBBS, CLSS, DELTAS, ROIS = [item for item in \
                                     [FPATHS, GTBBS, \
                                      CLSS, DELTAS, ROIS]]
Note that, so far, classes are available as the name of the class.
Now, we will convert them into their corresponding indices so
that a background class has a class index of 0, a bus class has a
class index of 1, and a truck class has a class index of 2.
3. Assign indices to each class:
targets = pd.DataFrame(flatten(CLSS), columns=['label'])
label2target = {l:t for t,l in \
                enumerate(targets['label'].unique())}
target2label = {t:l for l,t in label2target.items()}
background_class = label2target['background']

--- Strana 386 ---
So far, we have assigned a class to each region proposal and also created the
other ground truth of the bounding box offset. In the next section, we will
fetch the dataset and the data loaders corresponding to the information
obtained (FPATHS, IOUS, ROIS, CLSS, DELTAS, and GTBBS).
Creating the training data
So far, we have fetched data, region proposals across all images, prepared
the ground truths of the class of object present within each region proposal,
and the offset corresponding to each region proposal that has a high overlap
(IoU) with the object in the corresponding image. 
In this section, we will prepare a dataset class based on the ground truth of
region proposals that are obtained by the end of step 8 and create data
loaders from it. Next, we will normalize each region proposal by resizing
them to the same shape and scaling them. We will continue coding from
where we left off in the preceding section:
1. Define the function to normalize an image:
normalize= transforms.Normalize(mean=[0.485, 0.456, 0.406], \
                                 std=[0.229, 0.224, 0.225])
2. Define a function (preprocess_image) to preprocess the image (img), where
we switch channels, normalize the image, and register it with the
device:
def preprocess_image(img):
    img = torch.tensor(img).permute(2,0,1)
    img = normalize(img)
    return img.to(device).float()
Define the function to the class decode prediction:
def decode(_y):
    _, preds = _y.max(-1)
    return preds
3. Define the dataset (RCNNDataset) using the preprocessed region proposals
along with the ground truths obtained in the previous step (step 7):

--- Strana 387 ---
class RCNNDataset(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, fpaths, rois, labels, deltas, gtbbs):
        self.fpaths = fpaths
        self.gtbbs = gtbbs
        self.rois = rois
        self.labels = labels
        self.deltas = deltas
    def __len__(self): return len(self.fpaths)
Fetch the crops as per the region proposals, along with the other
ground truths related to class and the bounding box offset:
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        fpath = str(self.fpaths[ix])
        image = cv2.imread(fpath, 1)[...,::-1]
        H, W, _ = image.shape
        sh = np.array([W,H,W,H])
        gtbbs = self.gtbbs[ix]
        rois = self.rois[ix]
        bbs = (np.array(rois)*sh).astype(np.uint16)
        labels = self.labels[ix]
        deltas = self.deltas[ix]
        crops = [image[y:Y,x:X] for (x,y,X,Y) in bbs]
        return image,crops,bbs,labels,deltas,gtbbs,fpath
Define collate_fn, which performs the resizing and normalizing
(preprocess_image) of an image of a crop:
    def collate_fn(self, batch):
        input, rois, rixs, labels, deltas =[],[],[],[],[]
        for ix in range(len(batch)):
            image, crops, image_bbs, image_labels, \
                image_deltas, image_gt_bbs, \
                image_fpath = batch[ix]
            crops = [cv2.resize(crop, (224,224)) \
                     for crop in crops]
            crops = [preprocess_image(crop/255.)[None] \
                     for crop in crops]
            input.extend(crops)
            labels.extend([label2target[c] \
                           for c in image_labels])
            deltas.extend(image_deltas)
        input = torch.cat(input).to(device)
        labels = torch.Tensor(labels).long().to(device)
        deltas = torch.Tensor(deltas).float().to(device)
        return input, labels, deltas
4. Create the training and validation datasets and data loaders:
n_train = 9*len(FPATHS)//10
train_ds = RCNNDataset(FPATHS[:n_train], ROIS[:n_train], \
                       CLSS[:n_train], DELTAS[:n_train], \
                       GTBBS[:n_train])
test_ds = RCNNDataset(FPATHS[n_train:], ROIS[n_train:], \
                      CLSS[n_train:], DELTAS[n_train:], \
                      GTBBS[n_train:])

--- Strana 388 ---
from torch.utils.data import TensorDataset, DataLoader
train_loader = DataLoader(train_ds, batch_size=2, \
                          collate_fn=train_ds.collate_fn, \
                          drop_last=True)
test_loader = DataLoader(test_ds, batch_size=2, \
                         collate_fn=test_ds.collate_fn, \
                         drop_last=True)
So far, we have learned about preparing data. Next, we will learn about
defining and training the model that predicts the class and offset to be made
to the region proposal to fit a tight bounding box around objects in the
image.
R-CNN network architecture
Now that we have prepared the data, in this section, we will learn about
building a model that can predict both the class of region proposal and the
offset corresponding to it in order to draw a tight bounding box around the
object in the image. The strategy we adopt is as follows:
1. Define a VGG backbone.
2. Fetch the features post passing the normalized crop through a pretrained
model.
3. Attach a linear layer with sigmoid activation to the VGG backbone to
predict the class corresponding to the region proposal.
4. Attach an additional linear layer to predict the four bounding box
offsets.
5. Define the loss calculations for each of the two outputs (one to predict
class and the other to predict the four bounding box offsets).
6. Train the model that predicts both the class of region proposal and the
four bounding box offsets.
Execute the following code. We will continue coding from where we
ended in the preceding section:
1. Define a VGG backbone:
vgg_backbone = models.vgg16(pretrained=True)
vgg_backbone.classifier = nn.Sequential()
for param in vgg_backbone.parameters():

--- Strana 389 ---
    param.requires_grad = False
vgg_backbone.eval().to(device)
2. Define the RCNN network module:
Define the class:
class RCNN(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
Define the backbone (self.backbone) and how we calculate the class
score (self.cls_score) and the bounding box offset values (self.bbox):
        feature_dim = 25088
        self.backbone = vgg_backbone
        self.cls_score = nn.Linear(feature_dim, \
                                    len(label2target))
        self.bbox = nn.Sequential(
                          nn.Linear(feature_dim, 512),
                          nn.ReLU(),
                          nn.Linear(512, 4),
                          nn.Tanh(),
                        )
Define the loss functions corresponding to class prediction (self.cel)
and bounding box offset regression (self.sl1):
        self.cel = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
        self.sl1 = nn.L1Loss()
Define the feed-forward method where we pass the image through a
VGG backbone (self.backbone) to fetch features (feat), which are
further passed through the methods corresponding to classification
and bounding box regression to fetch the probabilities across classes
(cls_score) and the bounding box offsets (bbox):
    def forward(self, input):
        feat = self.backbone(input)
        cls_score = self.cls_score(feat)
        bbox = self.bbox(feat)
        return cls_score, bbox
Define the function to calculate loss (calc_loss). Note that we do not
calculate regression loss corresponding to offsets if the actual class
is of the background:

--- Strana 390 ---
    def calc_loss(self, probs, _deltas, labels, deltas):
        detection_loss = self.cel(probs, labels)
        ixs, = torch.where(labels != 0)
        _deltas = _deltas[ixs]
        deltas = deltas[ixs]
        self.lmb = 10.0
        if len(ixs) > 0:
            regression_loss = self.sl1(_deltas, deltas)
            return detection_loss + self.lmb *\
                regression_loss, detection_loss.detach(), \
                regression_loss.detach()
        else:
            regression_loss = 0
            return detection_loss + self.lmb *\
                regression_loss, detection_loss.detach(), \
                regression_loss
With the model class in place, we now define the functions to
train on a batch of data and predict on validation data.
3. Define the train_batch function:
def train_batch(inputs, model, optimizer, criterion):
    input, clss, deltas = inputs
    model.train()
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    _clss, _deltas = model(input)
    loss, loc_loss, regr_loss = criterion(_clss, _deltas, \
                                            clss, deltas)
    accs = clss == decode(_clss)
    loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    return loss.detach(), loc_loss, regr_loss, \
        accs.cpu().numpy()
4. Define the validate_batch function:
@torch.no_grad()
def validate_batch(inputs, model, criterion):
    input, clss, deltas = inputs
    with torch.no_grad():
        model.eval()
        _clss,_deltas = model(input)
        loss,loc_loss,regr_loss = criterion(_clss, _deltas, \
                                               clss, deltas)
        _, _clss = _clss.max(-1)
        accs = clss == _clss
    return _clss,_deltas,loss.detach(),loc_loss, regr_loss, \
         accs.cpu().numpy()
5. Now, let's create an object of the model, fetch the loss criterion, and
then define the optimizer and the number of epochs:
rcnn = RCNN().to(device)
criterion = rcnn.calc_loss

--- Strana 391 ---
optimizer = optim.SGD(rcnn.parameters(), lr=1e-3)
n_epochs = 5
log = Report(n_epochs)
6. We now train the model over increasing epochs:
for epoch in range(n_epochs):
    _n = len(train_loader)
    for ix, inputs in enumerate(train_loader):
        loss, loc_loss,regr_loss,accs = train_batch(inputs, \
                                  rcnn, optimizer, criterion)
        pos = (epoch + (ix+1)/_n)
        log.record(pos, trn_loss=loss.item(), \
                   trn_loc_loss=loc_loss, \
                   trn_regr_loss=regr_loss, \
                   trn_acc=accs.mean(), end='\r')
        
    _n = len(test_loader)
    for ix,inputs in enumerate(test_loader):
        _clss, _deltas, loss, \
        loc_loss, regr_loss, \
        accs = validate_batch(inputs, rcnn, criterion)
        pos = (epoch + (ix+1)/_n)
        log.record(pos, val_loss=loss.item(), \
                val_loc_loss=loc_loss, \
                val_regr_loss=regr_loss, \
                val_acc=accs.mean(), end='\r')
# Plotting training and validation metrics
log.plot_epochs('trn_loss,val_loss'.split(','))
The plot of overall loss across training and validation data is as follows:

--- Strana 392 ---
Now that we have trained a model, we will use it to predict on a new image
in the next section.
Predict on a new image
In this section, we will leverage the model trained so far to predict and draw
bounding boxes around objects and the corresponding class of object within
the predicted bounding box on new images. The strategy we adopt is as
follows:
1. Extract region proposals from the new image.
2. Resize and normalize each crop.

--- Strana 393 ---
3. Feed-forward the processed crops to make predictions of class and the
offsets.
4. Perform non-max suppression to fetch only those boxes that have the
highest confidence of containing an object.
We execute the preceding strategy through a function that takes an image as
input and a ground truth bounding box (this is used only so that we compare
the ground truth and the predicted bounding box). We will continue coding
from where we left off in the preceding section:
1. Define the test_predictions function to predict on a new image:
The function takes filename as input:
def test_predictions(filename, show_output=True):
Read the image and extract candidates:
    img = np.array(cv2.imread(filename, 1)[...,::-1])
    candidates = extract_candidates(img)
    candidates = [(x,y,x+w,y+h) for x,y,w,h in candidates]
Loop through the candidates to resize and preprocess the image:
    input = []
    for candidate in candidates:
        x,y,X,Y = candidate
        crop = cv2.resize(img[y:Y,x:X], (224,224))
        input.append(preprocess_image(crop/255.)[None])
    input = torch.cat(input).to(device)
Predict the class and offset:
    with torch.no_grad():
        rcnn.eval()
        probs, deltas = rcnn(input)
        probs = torch.nn.functional.softmax(probs, -1)
        confs, clss = torch.max(probs, -1)
Extract the candidates that do not belong to the background class
and sum up the candidates with the predicted bounding box offset
values:
    candidates = np.array(candidates)
    confs,clss,probs,deltas =[tensor.detach().cpu().numpy() \
                                  for tensor in [confs, \

--- Strana 394 ---
                                        clss, probs, deltas]]
    ixs = clss!=background_class
    confs, clss,probs,deltas,candidates = [tensor[ixs] for \
           tensor in [confs,clss, probs, deltas,candidates]]
    bbs = (candidates + deltas).astype(np.uint16)
Use non-max suppression nms to eliminate near-duplicate bounding
boxes (pairs of boxes that have an IoU greater than 0.05 are
considered duplicates in this case). Among the duplicated boxes, we
pick that box with the highest confidence and discard the rest:
    ixs = nms(torch.tensor(bbs.astype(np.float32)), \
                torch.tensor(confs), 0.05)
    confs,clss,probs,deltas,candidates,bbs = [tensor[ixs] \
                                            for tensor in \
                            [confs, clss, probs, deltas, \
                            candidates, bbs]]
    if len(ixs) == 1:
        confs, clss, probs, deltas, candidates, bbs = \
                [tensor[None] for tensor in [confs, clss,
                            probs, deltas, candidates, bbs]]
Fetch the bounding box with the highest confidence:
    if len(confs) == 0 and not show_output:
        return (0,0,224,224), 'background', 0
    if len(confs) > 0:
        best_pred = np.argmax(confs)
        best_conf = np.max(confs)
        best_bb = bbs[best_pred]
        x,y,X,Y = best_bb
Plot the image along with the predicted bounding box:
    _, ax = plt.subplots(1, 2, figsize=(20,10))
    show(img, ax=ax[0])
    ax[0].grid(False)
    ax[0].set_title('Original image')
    if len(confs) == 0:
        ax[1].imshow(img)
        ax[1].set_title('No objects')
        plt.show()
        return
    ax[1].set_title(target2label[clss[best_pred]])
    show(img, bbs=bbs.tolist(), 
        texts=[target2label[c] for c in clss.tolist()], 
        ax=ax[1], title='predicted bounding box and class')
    plt.show()
    return (x,y,X,Y),target2label[clss[best_pred]],best_conf
2. Execute the preceding function on a new image:

--- Strana 395 ---
image, crops, bbs, labels, deltas, gtbbs, fpath = test_ds[7]
test_predictions(fpath)
The preceding code generates the following images:
From the preceding diagram, we can see that the prediction of the class of an
image is accurate and the bounding box prediction is decent, too. Note that it
took ~1.5 seconds to generate a prediction for the preceding image.
All of this time is consumed in generating region proposals, resizing each
region proposal, passing them through a VGG backbone, and generating
predictions using the defined model. Most of the time, however, is spent in
passing each proposal through a VGG backbone. In the next section, we will
learn about getting around this "passing each proposal to VGG" problem by
using the Fast R-CNN architecture-based model.
Training Fast R-CNN-based custom
object detectors

--- Strana 396 ---
One of the major drawbacks of R-CNN is that it takes considerable time to
generate predictions, as generating region proposals for each image, resizing
the crops of regions, and extracting features corresponding to each crop
(region proposal), constitute the bottleneck.
Fast R-CNN gets around this problem by passing the entire image through
the pretrained model to extract features and then fetching the region of
features that correspond to the region proposals (which are obtained from
selectivesearch) of the original image. In the following sections, we will learn
about the working details of Fast R-CNN before training it on our custom
dataset.
Working details of Fast R-CNN
Let's understand Fast R-CNN through the following diagram:

--- Strana 397 ---

--- Strana 398 ---
Let's understand the preceding diagram through the following steps:
1. Pass the image through a pretrained model to extract features prior to
the flattening layer; let's call the output as feature maps.
2. Extract region proposals corresponding to the image.
3. Extract the feature map area corresponding to the region proposals
(note that when an image is passed through a VGG16 architecture, the
image is downscaled by 32 at the output as there are 5 pooling
operations performed. Thus, if a region exists with a bounding box of
(40,32,200,240) in the original image, the feature map corresponding to
the bounding box of (5,4,25,30) would correspond to the exact same
region).
4. Pass the feature maps corresponding to region proposals through the
RoI (Region of Interest) pooling layer one at a time so that all feature
maps of region proposals have a similar shape. This is a replacement
for the warping that was executed in the R-CNN technique.
5. Pass the RoI pooling layer output value through a fully connected layer.
6. Train the model to predict the class and offsets corresponding to each
region proposal.
Note that the big difference between R-CNN and Fast R-CNN is that, in R-CNN, we are
passing the crops (resized region proposals) through the pretrained model one at a time,
while in Fast R-CNN, we are cropping the feature map (which is obtained by passing the
whole image through a pretrained model) corresponding to each region proposal and
thereby avoiding the need to pass each resized region proposal through the pretrained
model.
Now armed with an understanding of how Fast R-CNN works, in the next
section, we will build the model using the same dataset that we leveraged in
the R-CNN section.
Implementing Fast R-CNN for object detection on
a custom dataset
In this section, we will work toward training our custom object detector
using Fast R-CNN. Furthermore, so as to remain succinct, we provide only
the additional or the changed code in this section (you should run all the

--- Strana 399 ---
code until step 2 in the Creating the training data sub-section in the previous
section of R-CNN):
To maintain brevity, we have only provided the additional code to train Fast R-CNN. The
full code is available as Training_Fast_R_CNN.ipynb in the Chapter07 folder of this book's
GitHub repository. 
1. Create an FRCNNDataset class that returns images, labels, ground truths,
region proposals, and the delta corresponding to each region proposal:
class FRCNNDataset(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, fpaths, rois, labels, deltas, gtbbs):
        self.fpaths = fpaths
        self.gtbbs = gtbbs
        self.rois = rois
        self.labels = labels
        self.deltas = deltas
    def __len__(self): return len(self.fpaths)
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        fpath = str(self.fpaths[ix])
        image = cv2.imread(fpath, 1)[...,::-1]
        gtbbs = self.gtbbs[ix]
        rois = self.rois[ix]
        labels = self.labels[ix]
        deltas = self.deltas[ix]
        assert len(rois) == len(labels) == len(deltas), \
            f'{len(rois)}, {len(labels)}, {len(deltas)}'
        return image, rois, labels, deltas, gtbbs, fpath
    def collate_fn(self, batch):
        input, rois, rixs, labels, deltas = [],[],[],[],[]
        for ix in range(len(batch)):
            image, image_rois, image_labels, image_deltas, \
                image_gt_bbs, image_fpath = batch[ix]
            image = cv2.resize(image, (224,224))
            input.append(preprocess_image(image/255.)[None])
            rois.extend(image_rois)
            rixs.extend([ix]*len(image_rois))
            labels.extend([label2target[c] for c in \
                                image_labels])
            deltas.extend(image_deltas)
        input = torch.cat(input).to(device)
        rois = torch.Tensor(rois).float().to(device)
        rixs = torch.Tensor(rixs).float().to(device)
        labels = torch.Tensor(labels).long().to(device)
        deltas = torch.Tensor(deltas).float().to(device)
        return input, rois, rixs, labels, deltas
Note that the preceding code is very similar to what we have learned
in the R-CNN section, with the only change being that we are
returning more information (rois and rixs).

--- Strana 400 ---
The rois matrix holds information regarding which RoI belongs to
which image in the batch. Note that input contains multiple images,
whereas rois is a single list of boxes. We wouldn't know how many
rois belong to the first image and how many belong to the second
image, and so on. This is where ridx comes into the picture. It is a list
of indexes. Each integer in the list associates the corresponding
bounding box with the appropriate image; for example,
if ridx is [0,0,0,1,1,2,3,3,3], then we know the first three bounding
boxes belong to the first image in the batch, and the next two belong
to the second image in the batch.
2. Create training and test datasets:
n_train = 9*len(FPATHS)//10
train_ds = FRCNNDataset(FPATHS[:n_train], ROIS[:n_train], \
                        CLSS[:n_train], DELTAS[:n_train], \
                        GTBBS[:n_train])
test_ds = FRCNNDataset(FPATHS[n_train:], ROIS[n_train:], \
                       CLSS[n_train:], DELTAS[n_train:], \
                       GTBBS[n_train:])
from torch.utils.data import TensorDataset, DataLoader
train_loader = DataLoader(train_ds, batch_size=2, \
                          collate_fn=train_ds.collate_fn, \
                          drop_last=True)
test_loader = DataLoader(test_ds, batch_size=2, \
                         collate_fn=test_ds.collate_fn, \
                         drop_last=True)
3. Define a model to train on the dataset:
First, import the RoIPool method present in the torchvision.ops class:
from torchvision.ops import RoIPool
Define the FRCNN network module:
class FRCNN(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
Load the pretrained model and freeze the parameters:
        rawnet = torchvision.models.vgg16_bn(pretrained=True)
        for param in rawnet.features.parameters():
            param.requires_grad = True

--- Strana 401 ---
Extract features until the last layer:
        self.seq = nn.Sequential(*list(\
                            rawnet.features.children())[:-1])
Specify that RoIPool is to extract a 7 x 7 output. Here, spatial_scale is
the factor by which proposals (which come from the original image)
need to be shrunk so that every output has the same shape prior to
passing through the flatten layer. Images are 224 x 224 in size,
while the feature map is 14 x 14 in size:
        self.roipool = RoIPool(7, spatial_scale=14/224)
Define the output heads – cls_score and bbox:
        feature_dim = 512*7*7
        self.cls_score = nn.Linear(feature_dim, \
                                   len(label2target))
        self.bbox = nn.Sequential(
                          nn.Linear(feature_dim, 512),
                          nn.ReLU(),
                          nn.Linear(512, 4),
                          nn.Tanh(),
                        )
Define the loss functions:
        self.cel = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
        self.sl1 = nn.L1Loss()
Define the forward method, which takes the image, region proposals,
and the index of region proposals as input for the network defined
earlier:
    def forward(self, input, rois, ridx):
Pass the input image through the pretrained model:
        res = input
        res = self.seq(res)
Create a matrix of rois as input for self.roipool, first by
concatenating ridx as the first column and the next four columns
being the absolute values of the region proposal bounding boxes:
        rois = torch.cat([ridx.unsqueeze(-1), rois*224], \
                            dim=-1)

--- Strana 402 ---
        res = self.roipool(res, rois)
        feat = res.view(len(res), -1)
        cls_score = self.cls_score(feat)
        bbox=self.bbox(feat)#.view(-1,len(label2target),4)
        return cls_score, bbox
Define the loss value calculation (calc_loss), just like we did in the
R-CNN section:
    def calc_loss(self, probs, _deltas, labels, deltas):
        detection_loss = self.cel(probs, labels)
        ixs, = torch.where(labels != background_class)
        _deltas = _deltas[ixs]
        deltas = deltas[ixs]
        self.lmb = 10.0
        if len(ixs) > 0:
            regression_loss = self.sl1(_deltas, deltas)
            return detection_loss +\
                self.lmb * regression_loss, \
                detection_loss.detach(), \
                regression_loss.detach()
        else:
            regression_loss = 0
            return detection_loss + \
                self.lmb * regression_loss, \
                detection_loss.detach(), \
                regression_loss
4. Define the functions to train and validate on a batch just like we did in
the R-CNN section:
def train_batch(inputs, model, optimizer, criterion):
    input, rois, rixs, clss, deltas = inputs
    model.train()
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    _clss, _deltas = model(input, rois, rixs)
    loss, loc_loss, regr_loss = criterion(_clss, _deltas, \
                                           clss, deltas)
    accs = clss == decode(_clss)
    loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    return loss.detach(), loc_loss, regr_loss, \
        accs.cpu().numpy()
def validate_batch(inputs, model, criterion):
    input, rois, rixs, clss, deltas = inputs
    with torch.no_grad():
        model.eval()
        _clss,_deltas = model(input, rois, rixs)
        loss, loc_loss,regr_loss = criterion(_clss, _deltas, \
                                                clss, deltas)
        _clss = decode(_clss)
        accs = clss == _clss
    return _clss, _deltas,loss.detach(), loc_loss,regr_loss, \
        accs.cpu().numpy()
5. Define and train the model over increasing epochs:

--- Strana 403 ---
frcnn = FRCNN().to(device)
criterion = frcnn.calc_loss
optimizer = optim.SGD(frcnn.parameters(), lr=1e-3)
n_epochs = 5
log = Report(n_epochs)
for epoch in range(n_epochs):
    _n = len(train_loader)
    for ix, inputs in enumerate(train_loader):
        loss, loc_loss,regr_loss, accs = train_batch(inputs, \
                                 frcnn, optimizer, criterion)
        pos = (epoch + (ix+1)/_n)
        log.record(pos, trn_loss=loss.item(), \
                   trn_loc_loss=loc_loss, \
                   trn_regr_loss=regr_loss, \
                   trn_acc=accs.mean(), end='\r')
        
    _n = len(test_loader)
    for ix,inputs in enumerate(test_loader):
        _clss, _deltas, loss, \
        loc_loss, regr_loss, accs = validate_batch(inputs, \
                                          frcnn, criterion)
        pos = (epoch + (ix+1)/_n)
        log.record(pos, val_loss=loss.item(), \
                val_loc_loss=loc_loss, \
                val_regr_loss=regr_loss, \
                val_acc=accs.mean(), end='\r')
# Plotting training and validation metrics
log.plot_epochs('trn_loss,val_loss'.split(','))
The variation in overall loss is as follows:

--- Strana 404 ---
6. Define a function to predict on test images:
Define the function that takes a filename as input and then reads
the file and resizes it to 224 x 224:
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
import matplotlib.patches as mpatches
from torchvision.ops import nms
from PIL import Image
def test_predictions(filename):
    img = cv2.resize(np.array(Image.open(filename)), \
                               (224,224))
Obtain region proposals and convert them to (x1,y1,x2,y2) format
(top-left pixel and bottom-right pixel coordinates), and then convert
these values to the ratio of width and height they are present in, in
proportion to the image:
    candidates = extract_candidates(img)
    candidates = [(x,y,x+w,y+h) for x,y,w,h in candidates]
Preprocess the image and scale the region of interests (rois):

--- Strana 405 ---
    input = preprocess_image(img/255.)[None]
    rois = [[x/224,y/224,X/224,Y/224] for x,y,X,Y in \
                candidates]
As all proposals belong to the same image, rixs will be a list of
zeros (as many as the number of proposals):
    rixs = np.array([0]*len(rois))
Forward propagate the input and rois through the trained model and
get confidences and class scores for each proposal:
    rois,rixs = [torch.Tensor(item).to(device) for item in \
                    [rois, rixs]]
    with torch.no_grad():
        frcnn.eval()
        probs, deltas = frcnn(input, rois, rixs)
        confs, clss = torch.max(probs, -1)
Filter out the background class:
    candidates = np.array(candidates)
    confs,clss,probs,deltas=[tensor.detach().cpu().numpy() \
                                  for tensor in [confs, \
                                       clss, probs, deltas]]
    
    ixs = clss!=background_class
    confs, clss, probs, deltas,candidates = [tensor[ixs] for \
           tensor in [confs, clss, probs, deltas,candidates]]
    bbs = candidates + deltas
Remove near-duplicate bounding boxes with nms and get indices of
those proposals in which the models that are highly confident are
objects:
    ixs = nms(torch.tensor(bbs.astype(np.float32)), \
                torch.tensor(confs), 0.05)
    confs, clss, probs,deltas,candidates,bbs = [tensor[ixs] \
                            for tensor in [confs,clss,probs, \
                            deltas, candidates, bbs]]
    if len(ixs) == 1:
        confs, clss, probs, deltas, candidates, bbs = \
                    [tensor[None] for tensor in [confs,clss, \
                     probs, deltas, candidates, bbs]]
    
    bbs = bbs.astype(np.uint16)
Plot the bounding boxes obtained:
    _, ax = plt.subplots(1, 2, figsize=(20,10))
    show(img, ax=ax[0])
    ax[0].grid(False)

--- Strana 406 ---
    ax[0].set_title(filename.split('/')[-1])
    if len(confs) == 0:
        ax[1].imshow(img)
        ax[1].set_title('No objects')
        plt.show()
        return
    else:
        show(img,bbs=bbs.tolist(),texts=[target2label[c] for \
                                c in clss.tolist()],ax=ax[1])
        plt.show()
7. Predict on a test image:
test_predictions(test_ds[29][-1])
The preceding code results in the following:
The preceding code executes in 0.5 seconds, which is significantly better
than that of R-CNN. However, it is still very slow to be used in real time.
This is primarily because we are still using two different models, one to

--- Strana 407 ---
generate region proposals and another to make predictions of class and
corrections. In the next chapter, we will learn about having a single model to
make predictions, so that inference is quick in a real-time scenario.
Summary
In this chapter, we started with learning about creating a training dataset for
the process of object localization and detection. Next, we learned about
SelectiveSearch, a region proposal technique that recommends regions based
on the similarity of pixels in proximity. We next learned about calculating
the IoU metric to understand the goodness of the predicted bounding box
around the objects present in the image. We next learned about performing
non-max suppression to fetch one bounding box per object within an image
before learning about building R-CNN and Fast R-CNN models from
scratch. In addition, we learned about the reason why R-CNN is slow and
how Fast R-CNN leverages RoI pooling and fetches region proposals from
feature maps to make inference faster. Finally, we understood that having
region proposals coming from a separate model is resulting in the higher
time taken to predict on new images.
In the next chapter, we will learn about some of the modern object detection
techniques that are used to make inference on a more real-time basis.
Questions
1. How does a region proposal technique generate proposals?
2. How is IoU calculated if there are multiple objects in an image?
3. Why does R-CNN take a long time to generate predictions?
4. Why is Fast R-CNN faster when compared with R-CNN?
5. How does RoI pooling work?
6. What is the impact of not having multiple layers post the feature map
obtained when predicting the bounding box corrections?
7. Why do we have to assign a higher weight to regression loss when
calculating overall loss?

--- Strana 408 ---
8. How does non-max suppression work?

--- Strana 409 ---
Advanced Object Detection
In the previous chapter, we learned about R-CNN and Fast R-CNN techniques,
which leveraged region proposals to generate predictions of the locations of
objects in an image along with the classes corresponding to objects in the image.
Furthermore, we learned about the bottleneck of the speed of inference, which
happens because of having two different models – one for region proposal
generation and another for object detection. In this chapter, we will learn about
different modern techniques, such as Faster R-CNN, YOLO, and Single-Shot
Detector (SSD), that overcome slow inference time by employing a single model
to make predictions for both the class of object and the bounding box in a single
shot. We will start by learning about anchor boxes and then proceed to learn about
how each of the techniques works and how to implement them to detect objects in
an image.
We will cover the following topics in this chapter:
Components of modern object detection algorithms
Training Faster R-CNN on a custom dataset
Working details of YOLO
Training YOLO on a custom dataset
Working details of SSD
Training SSD on a custom dataset
Components of modern object
detection algorithms
The drawback of the R-CNN and Fast R-CNN techniques is that they have two
disjointed networks – one to identify the regions that likely contain an object and
the other to make corrections to the bounding box where an object is identified.
Furthermore, both the models require as many forward propagations as there are
region proposals. Modern object detection algorithms focus heavily on training a
single neural network and have the capability to detect all objects in one forward
pass. In the subsequent sections, we will learn about the various components of a
typical modern object detection algorithm:

--- Strana 410 ---
Anchor boxes
Region proposal network (RPN)
Region of interest pooling
Anchor boxes
So far, we have had region proposals coming from the selectivesearch method.
Anchor boxes come in as a handy replacement for selective search – we will learn
how they replace selectivesearch-based region proposals in this section.
Typically, a majority of objects have a similar shape – for example, in a majority
of cases, a bounding box corresponding to an image of a person will have a greater
height than width, and a bounding box corresponding to the image of a truck will
have a greater width than height. Thus, we will have a decent idea of the height
and width of the objects present in an image even before training the model (by
inspecting the ground truths of bounding boxes corresponding to objects of
various classes).
Furthermore, in some images, the objects of interest might be scaled – resulting in
a much smaller or much greater height and width than average – while still
maintaining the aspect ratio (that is, 
).
Once we have a decent idea of the aspect ratio and the height and width of objects
(which can be obtained from ground truth values in the dataset) present in our
images, we define the anchor boxes with heights and widths representing the
majority of objects' bounding boxes within our dataset.
Typically, this is obtained by employing K-means clustering on top of the ground
truth bounding boxes of objects present in images.
Now that we understand how anchor boxes' heights and widths are obtained, we
will learn about how to leverage them in the process:
1. Slide each anchor box over an image from top left to bottom right.
2. The anchor box that has a high intersection over union (IoU) with the object
will have a label that mentions that it contains an object, and the others will
be labeled 0:

--- Strana 411 ---
We can modify the threshold of the IoU by mentioning that if the IoU is
greater than a certain threshold, the object class is 1; if it is less than
another threshold, the object class is 0, and it is unknown otherwise.
Once we obtain the ground truths as defined here, we can build a model that can
predict the location of an object and also the offset corresponding to the anchor
box to match it with ground truth. Let's now understand how anchor boxes are
represented in the following image:
In the preceding image, we have two anchor boxes, one that has a greater height
than width and the other with a greater width than height, to correspond to the
objects (classes) in the image – a person and a car.

--- Strana 412 ---
We slide the two anchor boxes over the image and note the locations where the
IoU of the anchor box with the ground truth is the highest and denote that this
particular location contains an object while the rest of the locations do not contain
an object.
In addition to the preceding two anchor boxes, we would also create anchor boxes
with varying scales so that we accommodate the differing scales at which an
object can be presented within an image. An example of how the different scales
of anchor boxes look follows:
Note that all the anchor boxes have the same center but different aspect ratios or
scales.
Now that we understand anchor boxes, in the next section, we will learn about the
RPN, which leverages anchor boxes to come up with predictions of regions that
are likely to contain an object.

--- Strana 413 ---
Region Proposal Network
Imagine a scenario where we have a 224 x 224 x 3 image. Furthermore, let's say
that the anchor box is of shape 8 x 8 for this example. If we have a stride of 8
pixels, we are fetching 224/8 = 28 crops of a picture for every row – essentially
28*28 = 576 crops from a picture. We then take each of these crops and pass
through a Region Proposal Network model (RPN) that indicates whether the crop
contains an image. Essentially, an RPN suggests the likelihood of a crop
containing an object.
Let's compare the output of selectivesearch and the output of an RPN.
selectivesearch gives a region candidates based on a set of computations on top of
pixel values. However, an RPN generates region candidates based on the anchor
boxes and the strides with which anchor boxes are slid over the image. Once we
obtain the region candidates using either of these two methods, we identify the
candidates that are most likely to contain an object.
While region proposal generation based on selectivesearch is done outside of the
neural network, we can build an RPN that is a part of the object detection network.
Using an RPN, we are now in a position where we don't have to perform
unnecessary computations to calculate region proposals outside of the network.
This way, we have a single model to identify regions, identify classes of objects in
image, and identify their corresponding bounding box locations.
Next, we will learn how an RPN identifies whether a region candidate (a crop
obtained after sliding an anchor box) contains an object or not. In our training
data, we would have the ground truth correspond to objects. We now take each
region candidate and compare with the ground truth bounding boxes of objects in
an image to identify whether the IoU between a region candidate and a ground
truth bounding box is greater than a certain threshold. If the IoU is greater than a
certain threshold (say, 0.5), the region candidate contains an object, and if the IoU
is less than a threshold (say 0.1), the region candidate does not contain an object
and all the candidates that have an IoU between the two thresholds (0.1 - 0.5) are
ignored while training.
Once we train a model to predict if the region candidate contains an object, we
then perform non-max suppression, as multiple overlapping regions can contain an
object.

--- Strana 414 ---
In summary, an RPN trains a model to enable it to identify region proposals with a
high likelihood of containing an object by performing the following steps:
1. Slide anchor boxes of different aspect ratios and sizes across the image to
fetch crops of an image.
2. Calculate the IoU between the ground truth bounding boxes of objects in the
image and the crops obtained in the previous step.
3. Prepare the training dataset in such a way that crops with an IoU greater than
a threshold contain an object and crops with an IoU less than a threshold do
not contain an object.
4. Train the model to identify regions that contain an object.
5. Perform non-max suppression to identify the region candidate that has the
highest probability of containing an object and eliminate other region
candidates that have a high overlap with it.
Classification and regression
So far, we have learned about the following steps in order to identify objects and
perform offsets to bounding boxes:
1. Identify the regions that contain objects.
2. Ensure that all the feature maps of regions, irrespective of the regions' shape,
are exactly the same using region of interest (RoI) pooling (which we
learned about in the previous chapter).
Two issues with these steps are as follows:
1. The region proposals do not correspond tightly over the object (IoU>0.5 is
the threshold we had in the RPN).
2. We identified whether the region contains an object or not, but not the class
of the object located in the region.
We address these two issues in this section, where we take the uniformly shaped
feature map obtained previously and pass it through a network. We expect the
network to predict the class of the object contained within the region and also the
offsets corresponding to the region to ensure that the bounding box is as tight as
possible around the object in the image.
Let's understand this through the following diagram:

--- Strana 415 ---
In the preceding diagram, we are taking the output of RoI pooling as input (the 7 x
7 x 512 shape), flattening it, and connecting to a dense layer before predicting two

--- Strana 416 ---
different aspects:
1. Class of object in the region
2. Amount of offset to be done on the predicted bounding boxes of the region to
maximize the IoU with the ground truth
Hence, if there are 20 classes in the data, the output of the neural network contains
a total of 25 outputs – 21 classes (including the background class) and the 4 offsets
to be applied to the height, width, and two center coordinates of the bounding box.
Now that we have learned the different components of an object detection
pipeline, let's summarize it with the following diagram:

--- Strana 417 ---
With the working details of each of the components of Faster R-CNN in place, in
the next section, we will code up object detection using the Faster R-CNN

--- Strana 418 ---
algorithm.
Training Faster R-CNN on a custom
dataset
In the following code, we will train the Faster R-CNN algorithm to detect the
bounding boxes around objects present in images. For this, we will work on the
same truck versus bus detection exercise that we worked on in the previous
chapter:
The following code is available as Training_Faster_RCNN.ipynb in the Chapter08 folder of this book's
GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt.
1. Download the dataset:
import os
if not os.path.exists('images'):
    !pip install -qU torch_snippets
    from google.colab import files
    files.upload() # upload kaggle.json
    !mkdir -p ~/.kaggle
    !mv kaggle.json ~/.kaggle/
    !ls ~/.kaggle
    !chmod 600 /root/.kaggle/kaggle.json
    !kaggle datasets download \
        -d sixhky/open-images-bus-trucks/
    !unzip -qq open-images-bus-trucks.zip
    !rm open-images-bus-trucks.zip
2. Read the DataFrame containing metadata of information about images and
their bounding box, and classes:
from torch_snippets import *
from PIL import Image
IMAGE_ROOT = 'images/images'
DF_RAW = df = pd.read_csv('df.csv')
3. Define the indices corresponding to labels and targets:
label2target = {l:t+1 for t,l in \
                enumerate(DF_RAW['LabelName'].unique())}
label2target['background'] = 0
target2label = {t:l for l,t in label2target.items()}
background_class = label2target['background']
num_classes = len(label2target)
4. Define the function to pre-process an image – preprocess_image:

--- Strana 419 ---
def preprocess_image(img):
    img = torch.tensor(img).permute(2,0,1)
    return img.to(device).float()
5. Define the dataset class – OpenDataset:
Define an __init__ method that takes the folder containing images and the
DataFrame containing the metadata of the images as inputs:
class OpenDataset(torch.utils.data.Dataset):
    w, h = 224, 224
    def __init__(self, df, image_dir=IMAGE_ROOT):
        self.image_dir = image_dir
        self.files = glob.glob(self.image_dir+'/*')
        self.df = df
        self.image_infos = df.ImageID.unique()
Define the __getitem__ method, where we return the pre-processed image
and the target values:
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        # load images and masks
        image_id = self.image_infos[ix]
        img_path = find(image_id, self.files)
        img = Image.open(img_path).convert("RGB")
        img = np.array(img.resize((self.w, self.h), \
                              resample=Image.BILINEAR))/255.
        data = df[df['ImageID'] == image_id]
        labels = data['LabelName'].values.tolist()
        data = data[['XMin','YMin','XMax','YMax']].values
        # Convert to absolute coordinates
        data[:,[0,2]] *= self.w
        data[:,[1,3]] *= self.h 
        boxes = data.astype(np.uint32).tolist() 
        # torch FRCNN expects ground truths as 
        # a dictionary of tensors
        target = {}
        target["boxes"] = torch.Tensor(boxes).float()
        target["labels"] = torch.Tensor([label2target[i] \
                                for i in labels]).long()
        img = preprocess_image(img)
        return img, target
Note that for the first time, we are returning the output as a dictionary of tensors and not as a
list of tensors. This is because the official PyTorch implementation of the FRCNN class expects the
target to contain the absolute coordinates of bounding boxes and the label information.
Define the collate_fn method (by default, collate_fn works only with
tensors as inputs, but here, we are dealing with a list of dictionaries) and
the __len__ method:
    def collate_fn(self, batch):
        return tuple(zip(*batch)) 
    def __len__(self):
        return len(self.image_infos)
6. Create the training and validation dataloaders and datasets:

--- Strana 420 ---
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
trn_ids, val_ids = train_test_split(df.ImageID.unique(), \
                    test_size=0.1, random_state=99)
trn_df, val_df = df[df['ImageID'].isin(trn_ids)], \
                    df[df['ImageID'].isin(val_ids)]
train_ds = OpenDataset(trn_df)
test_ds = OpenDataset(val_df)
train_loader = DataLoader(train_ds, batch_size=4, \
            collate_fn=train_ds.collate_fn, drop_last=True)
test_loader = DataLoader(test_ds, batch_size=4, \
            collate_fn=test_ds.collate_fn, drop_last=True)
7. Define the model:
import torchvision
from torchvision.models.detection.faster_rcnn import FastRCNNPredictor
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
def get_model():
    model = torchvision.models.detection\
                .fasterrcnn_resnet50_fpn(pretrained=True)
    in_features = model.roi_heads.box_predictor\
                       .cls_score.in_features
    model.roi_heads.box_predictor = FastRCNNPredictor(\
                                in_features, num_classes)
    return model
The model contains the following key submodules:
We notice the following:

--- Strana 421 ---
GeneralizedRCNNTransform is a simple resize followed by a normalize
transformation:
BackboneWithFPN is a neural network that transforms input into a feature map.
RegionProposalNetwork generates the anchor boxes for the preceding feature
map and predicts individual feature maps for classification and regression
tasks:
RoIHeads takes the preceding maps, aligns them using RoI pooling,
processes them, and returns classification probabilities for each proposal
and the corresponding offsets:
8. Define functions to train on batches of data and calculate loss values on the
validation data:

--- Strana 422 ---
# Defining training and validation functions 
def train_batch(inputs, model, optimizer):
    model.train()
    input, targets = inputs
    input = list(image.to(device) for image in input)
    targets = [{k: v.to(device) for k, v \
                in t.items()} for t in targets]
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    losses = model(input, targets)
    loss = sum(loss for loss in losses.values())
    loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    return loss, losses
@torch.no_grad() 
def validate_batch(inputs, model):
    model.train() 
#to obtain losses, model needs to be in train mode only
#Note that here we arn't defining the model's forward method 
#hence need to work per the way the model class is defined
    input, targets = inputs
    input = list(image.to(device) for image in input)
    targets = [{k: v.to(device) for k, v \
                in t.items()} for t in targets]
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    losses = model(input, targets)
    loss = sum(loss for loss in losses.values())
    return loss, losses
9. Train the model over increasing epochs:
Define the model:
model = get_model().to(device)
optimizer = torch.optim.SGD(model.parameters(), lr=0.005, \
                            momentum=0.9,weight_decay=0.0005)
n_epochs = 5
log = Report(n_epochs)
Train the model and calculate the loss values on the training and test
datasets:
for epoch in range(n_epochs):
    _n = len(train_loader)
    for ix, inputs in enumerate(train_loader):
        loss, losses = train_batch(inputs, model, optimizer)
        loc_loss, regr_loss, loss_objectness, \
            loss_rpn_box_reg = \
                [losses[k] for k in ['loss_classifier', \
                'loss_box_reg', 'loss_objectness', \
                'loss_rpn_box_reg']]
        pos = (epoch + (ix+1)/_n)
        log.record(pos, trn_loss=loss.item(), \
                 trn_loc_loss=loc_loss.item(), \
                 trn_regr_loss=regr_loss.item(), \
                 trn_objectness_loss=loss_objectness.item(), \
               trn_rpn_box_reg_loss=loss_rpn_box_reg.item(), \
                 end='\r')
    _n = len(test_loader)
    for ix,inputs in enumerate(test_loader):

--- Strana 423 ---
        loss, losses = validate_batch(inputs, model)
        loc_loss, regr_loss, loss_objectness, \
            loss_rpn_box_reg = \
                [losses[k] for k in ['loss_classifier', \
                'loss_box_reg', 'loss_objectness', \
                'loss_rpn_box_reg']]
        pos = (epoch + (ix+1)/_n)
        log.record(pos, val_loss=loss.item(), \
                 val_loc_loss=loc_loss.item(), \
                 val_regr_loss=regr_loss.item(), \
                val_objectness_loss=loss_objectness.item(), \
               val_rpn_box_reg_loss=loss_rpn_box_reg.item(), \
                 end='\r')
    if (epoch+1)%(n_epochs//5)==0: log.report_avgs(epoch+1)
10. Plot the variation of the various loss values over increasing epochs:
log.plot_epochs(['trn_loss','val_loss'])
This results in the following output:
11. Predict on a new image:
The output of the trained model contains boxes, labels, and scores
corresponding to classes. In the following code, we define a
decode_output function that takes the model's output and provides the list of
boxes, scores, and classes after non-max suppression:

--- Strana 424 ---
from torchvision.ops import nms
def decode_output(output):
    'convert tensors to numpy arrays'
    bbs = \
    output['boxes'].cpu().detach().numpy().astype(np.uint16)
    labels = np.array([target2label[i] for i in \
                output['labels'].cpu().detach().numpy()])
    confs = output['scores'].cpu().detach().numpy()
    ixs = nms(torch.tensor(bbs.astype(np.float32)), 
                            torch.tensor(confs), 0.05)
    bbs, confs, labels = [tensor[ixs] for tensor in [bbs, \
                                            confs, labels]]
    if len(ixs) == 1:
        bbs,confs,labels = [np.array([tensor]) for tensor \
                                in [bbs, confs, labels]]
    return bbs.tolist(), confs.tolist(), labels.tolist()
Fetch the predictions of the boxes and classes on test images:
model.eval()
for ix, (images, targets) in enumerate(test_loader):
    if ix==3: break
    images = [im for im in images]
    outputs = model(images)
    for ix, output in enumerate(outputs):
        bbs, confs, labels = decode_output(output)
        info = [f'{l}@{c:.2f}' for l,c in zip(labels, confs)]
        show(images[ix].cpu().permute(1,2,0), bbs=bbs, \
                texts=labels, sz=5)
The preceding code provides the following output:
In this section, we have trained a Faster R-CNN model using the
fasterrcnn_resnet50_fpn model class provided in the PyTorch models package. In the
next section, we will learn about YOLO, a modern object detection algorithm that

--- Strana 425 ---
performs both object class detection and region correction in a single shot without
the need to have a separate RPN.
Working details of YOLO
You Only Look Once (YOLO) and its variants are one of the prominent object
detection algorithms. In this section, we will understand at a high level how
YOLO works and the potential limitations of R-CNN-based object detection
frameworks that YOLO overcomes.
First, let's learn about the possible limitations of R-CNN-based detection
algorithms. In Faster R-CNN, we slide over the image using anchor boxes and
identify the regions that are likely to contain an object, and then we make the
bounding box corrections. However, in the fully connected layer, where only the
detected region's RoI pooling output is passed as input, in the case of regions that
do not fully encompass the object (where the object is beyond the boundaries of
the bounding box of region proposal), the network has to guess the real boundaries
of object, as it has not seen the full image (but has seen only the region proposal).
YOLO comes in handy in such scenarios, as it looks at the whole image while
predicting the bounding box corresponding to an image.
Furthermore, Faster R-CNN is still slow, as we have two networks: the RPN and
the final network that predicts classes and bounding boxes around objects.
Here, we will understand how YOLO overcomes the limitations of Faster R-CNN,
both by looking at the whole image at once as well as by having a single network
to make predictions. We will look at how data is prepared for YOLO through the
following example:
1. Create a ground truth to train a model for a given image:
Let's consider an image with the given ground truth of bounding boxes in
red:

--- Strana 426 ---
Divide the image into N x N grid cells – for now, let's say N=3:
Identify those grid cells that contain the center of at least one ground truth
bounding box. In our case, they are cells b1 and b3 of our 3 x 3 grid
image.
The cell(s) where the middle point of ground truth bounding box falls
is/are responsible for predicting the bounding box of the object. Let's

--- Strana 427 ---
create the ground truth corresponding to each cell.
The output ground truth corresponding to each cell is as follows:
Here, pc (the objectness score) is the probability of the cell containing
an object.
Let's understand how to calculate bx, by, bw, and bh.
First, we consider the grid cell (let's consider the b1 grid cell) as our
universe, and normalize it to a scale between 0 and 1, as follows:
bx and by are the locations of the mid-point of the ground truth
bounding box with respect to the image (of the grid cell), as defined
previously. In our case, bx = 0.5, as the mid-point of the ground truth is
at a distance of 0.5 units from the origin. Similarly, by= 0.5:

--- Strana 428 ---
So far, we have calculated offsets from the grid cell center to the
ground truth center corresponding to the object in the image. Now, let's
understand how bw and bh are calculated.
bw is the ratio of the width of the bounding box with respect to the
width of the grid cell.
bh is the ratio of the height of the bounding box with respect to the
height of the grid cell.
Next, we will predict the class corresponding to the grid cell. If we
have three classes (c1 – truck, c2 – car, c3 – bus), we will predict the
probability of the cell containing an object among any of the three
classes. Note that we do not need a background class here, as pc
corresponds to whether the grid cell contains an object.
Now that we understand how to represent the output layer of each cell,
let's understand how we construct the output of our 3 x 3 grid cells.
Let's consider the output of the grid cell a3:
The output of cell a3 is as shown in the preceding screenshot. As the
grid cell does not contain an object, the first output (pc – objectness
score) is 0 and the remaining values do not matter as the cell does not
contain the center of any ground truth bounding boxes of an object.
Let's consider the output corresponding to grid cell b1:

--- Strana 429 ---
The preceding output is the way it is because the grid cell contains an
object with the bx, by, bw, and bh values that were obtained in the
same way as we went through earlier (in the bullet point before last),
and finally the class being car resulting in c2 being 1 while c1 and c3
are 0.
Note that for each cell, we are able to fetch 8 outputs. Hence, for the 3
x 3 grid of cells, we fetch 3 x 3 x 8 outputs.
2. Define a model where the input is an image and the output is 3 x 3 x 8 with
the ground truth being as defined in the previous step:
3. Define the ground truth by considering the anchor boxes.
So far, we have been building for a scenario where the expectation is that
there is only one object within a grid cell. However, in reality, there can be
scenarios where there are multiple objects within the same grid cell. This
would result in creating ground truths that are incorrect. Let's understand
this phenomenon through the following example image:

--- Strana 430 ---
In the preceding example, the mid-point of the ground truth bounding
boxes for both the car and the person fall in the same cell – cell b1.
One way to avoid such a scenario is by having a grid that has more rows
and columns – for example, a 19 x 19 grid. However, there can still be a
scenario where an increase in the number of grid cells does not help.
Anchor boxes come in handy in such a scenario. Let's say we have two
anchor boxes – one that has a greater height than width (corresponding to
the person) and another that has a greater width than height (corresponding
to the car):

--- Strana 431 ---
Typically, the anchor boxes would have the grid cell center as their centers.
The output for each cell in a scenario where we have two anchor boxes is
represented as a concatenation of the output expected of the two anchor
boxes:

--- Strana 432 ---
Here, bx, by, bw, and bh represent the offset from the anchor box (which
is the universe in this scenario as seen in the image instead of the grid cell).
From the preceding screenshot, we see we have an output that is 3 x 3 x
16, as we have two anchors. The expected output is of the shape N x N x
(num_classes + 1) x (num_anchor_boxes), where N x N is the number of cells in
the grid, num_classes is the number of classes in the dataset, and
num_anchor_boxes is the number of anchor boxes.
4. Now we define the loss function to train the model.
When calculating the loss associated with the model, we need to ensure
that we do not calculate the regression loss and classification loss when the
objectness score is less than a certain threshold (this corresponds to the
cells that do not contain an object).
Next, if the cell contains an object, we need to ensure that the classification
across different classes is as accurate as possible.
Finally, if the cell contains an object, the bounding box offsets should be as
close to expected as possible. However, since the offsets of width and
height can be much higher when compared to the offset of the center (as
offsets of the center range between 0 and 1, while the offsets of width and
height need not), we give a lower weightage to offsets of width and height
by fetching a square root value.
Calculate the loss of localization and classification as follows:
Here, we observe the following:

--- Strana 433 ---
 
 is the weightage associated with regression loss.
 
 represents whether the cell contains an object.
 corresponds to the predicted class probability, and 
 represents
the objectness score.
The overall loss is a sum of classification and regression loss values.
With this in place, we are now in a position to train a model to predict the
bounding boxes around objects. However, for a stronger understanding of YOLO
and the variants of it, we encourage you to go through the original papers. Now
that we understand how YOLO predicts bounding boxes and class of objects in a
single shot, we will code it up in the next section.
Training YOLO on a custom dataset
Building on top of others' work is very important to becoming a successful
practitioner in deep learning. For this implementation, we will use the official
YOLO-v4 implementation to identify the location of buses and trucks in images.
We will clone the repository of the authors' own implementation of YOLO and
customize it to our needs in the following code.
The following code is available as Training_YOLO.ipynb in the Chapter08 folder of this book's GitHub
repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt.
Installing Darknet
First, pull the darknet repository from GitHub and compile it in the environment.
The model is written in a separate language called Darknet, which is different
from PyTorch. We will do so using the following code:
1. Pull the Git repo:
!git clone https://github.com/AlexeyAB/darknet
%cd darknet
2. Reconfigure the Makefile file:
!sed -i 's/OPENCV=0/OPENCV=1/' Makefile
# In case you dont have a GPU, make sure to comment out the

--- Strana 434 ---
# below 3 lines
!sed -i 's/GPU=0/GPU=1/' Makefile
!sed -i 's/CUDNN=0/CUDNN=1/' Makefile
!sed -i 's/CUDNN_HALF=0/CUDNN_HALF=1/' Makefile
Makefile is a configuration file needed for installing darknet in the
environment (think of this process as similar to the selections you make
when installing software on Windows). We are forcing darknet to be
installed with the following flags: OPENCV, GPU, CUDNN, and CUDNN_HALF. These are
all important optimizations to make the training faster.
Furthermore, in the preceding code, there is a curious function called sed,
which stands for stream editor. It is a powerful Linux command that can
modify information in text files directly from Command Prompt.
Specifically, here we are using its search-and-replace function to replace
OPENCV=0 with OPENCV=1, and so on. The syntax to understand here is sed
's/<search-string>/<replace-with>/' path/to/text/file.
3. Compile the darknet source code:
!make
4. Install the torch_snippets package:
!pip install -q torch_snippets
5. Download and extract the dataset, and remove the ZIP file to save space:
!wget --quiet \
 https://www.dropbox.com/s/agmzwk95v96ihic/open-images-bus-trucks.tar.xz
!tar -xf open-images-bus-trucks.tar.xz
!rm open-images-bus-trucks.tar.xz
6. Fetch the pre-trained weights to make a sample prediction:
!wget --quiet\ 
https://github.com/AlexeyAB/darknet/releases/download/darknet_yolo_v3_optimal/yol
ov4.weights
7. Test whether the installation is successful by running the following
command:
!./darknet detector test cfg/coco.data cfg/yolov4.cfg\ yolov4.weights
 data/person.jpg
This would make a prediction on data/person.jpg using the network built
from cfg/yolov4.cfg and pre-trained weights – yolov4.weights. Furthermore, it

--- Strana 435 ---
fetches the classes from cfg/coco.data, which is what the pre-trained weights
were trained on.
The preceding code results in predictions on the sample image
(data/person.jpg) as follows:
Now that we have learned about installing darknet, in the next section, we will learn
about creating ground truths for our custom dataset to leverage darknet.
Setting up the dataset format
YOLO uses a fixed format for training. Once we store the images and labels in the
required format, we can train on the dataset with a single command. So, let's learn
about the files and folder structure needed for YOLO to train.
There are three important steps:
1. Create a text file at data/obj.names containing the names of classes, one class
per line, by running the following line (%%writefile is a magic command that
creates a text file at data/obj.names with whatever content is present in the
notebook cell):
%%writefile data/obj.names
bus
truck
2. Create a text file at data/obj.data describing the parameters in the dataset and
the locations of text files containing train and test image paths and the
location of the file containing object names and the folder where you want to
save trained models:
%%writefile data/obj.data
classes = 2
train = data/train.txt
valid = data/val.txt
names = data/obj.names
backup = backup/
The extensions for the preceding text files are not .txt.
Yolo uses hardcoded names and folders to identify where data is.

--- Strana 436 ---
Also, the magic %%writefile Jupyter function creates a file with the content mentioned in a cell, as
shown previously. Treat each %%writefile ... as a separate cell in Jupyter.
3.  Move all images and ground truth text files to the data/obj folder. We will
copy images from the bus-trucks dataset to this folder along with the labels:
!mkdir -p data/obj
!cp -r open-images-bus-trucks/images/* data/obj/
!cp -r open-images-bus-trucks/yolo_labels/all/\
{train,val}.txt data/
!cp -r open-images-bus-trucks/yolo_labels/all/\
labels/*.txt data/obj/
Note that all the training and validation images are in the same data/obj folder. We
also move a bunch of text files to the same folder. Each file that contains the
ground truth for an image shares the same name as the image. For example, the
folder might contain 1001.jpg and 1001.txt, implying that the text file contains labels
and bounding boxes for that image. If data/train.txt contains 1001.jpg as one of its
lines, then it is a training image. If it's present in val.txt, then it is a validation
image.
The text file itself should contain information like so: cls, xc, yc, w, h,, where cls
is the class index of the object in the bounding box present at (xc, yc) which
represents the centroid of the rectangle of width w and height h. Each of xc, yc, w,
and h is a fraction of the image width and height. Store each object on a separate
line.
For example, if an image of width 800 and height 600 contains one truck and one
bus at centers (500,300) and (100,400) respectively and has widths and heights
respectively of (200,100) and (300,50), then the text file would look as follows:
1 0.62 0.50 0.25 0.12
0 0.12 0.67 0.38 0.08
Now that we have created the data, let's configure the network architecture in the
next section.
Configuring the architecture
YOLO comes with a long list of architectures. Some are large and some are small,
to train on large or small datasets. Configurations can have different backbones.
There are pre-trained configurations for standard datasets. Each configuration is a
.cfg file present in the cfgs folder of the same GitHub repo that we cloned. Each of

--- Strana 437 ---
them contains the architecture of the network as a text file (as opposed to how we
were building it with the nn.Module class) along with a few hyperparameters, such as
batch size and learning rate. We will take the smallest available architecture and
configure it for our dataset: 
# create a copy of existing configuration and modify it in place
!cp cfg/yolov4-tiny-custom.cfg cfg/\
yolov4-tiny-bus-trucks.cfg
# max_batches to 4000 (since the dataset is small enough)
!sed -i 's/max_batches = 500200/max_batches=4000/' \
cfg/yolov4-tiny-bus-trucks.cfg
# number of sub-batches per batch
!sed -i 's/subdivisions=1/subdivisions=16/' \
cfg/yolov4-tiny-bus-trucks.cfg
# number of batches after which learning rate is decayed
!sed -i 's/steps=400000,450000/steps=3200,3600/' \
cfg/yolov4-tiny-bus-trucks.cfg
# number of classes is 2 as opposed to 80 
# (which is the number of COCO classes)
!sed -i 's/classes=80/classes=2/g' \
cfg/yolov4-tiny-bus-trucks.cfg
# in the classification and regression heads, 
# change number of output convolution filters
# from 255 -> 21 and 57 -> 33, since we have fewer classes 
# we don't need as many filters
!sed -i 's/filters=255/filters=21/g' \
cfg/yolov4-tiny-bus-trucks.cfg
!sed -i 's/filters=57/filters=33/g' \
cfg/yolov4-tiny-bus-trucks.cfg
This way, we have repurposed yolov4-tiny to be trainable on our dataset. The only
remaining step is to load the pre-trained weights and train the model, which we
will do in the next section.
Training and testing the model
We will get the weights from the following GitHub location and store them
in build/darknet/x64:
!wget --quiet \ 
https://github.com/AlexeyAB/darknet/releases/download/darknet_yolo_v4_pre/yolov4-
tiny.conv.29
!cp yolov4-tiny.conv.29 build/darknet/x64/
Finally, we will train the model using the following line:
!./darknet detector train data/obj.data \
cfg/yolov4-tiny-bus-trucks.cfg yolov4-tiny.conv.29 \
-dont_show -mapLastAt
The -dont_show flag skips showing intermediate prediction images and -mapLastAt will
periodically print the mean average precision on the validation data. The whole of

--- Strana 438 ---
the training might take 1 or 2 hours. The weights are periodically stored in a
backup folder and can be used after training for predictions such as the following
code, which makes predictions on a new image:
!pip install torch_snippets
from torch_snippets import Glob, stem, show, read
# upload your own images to a folder
image_paths = Glob('images-of-trucks-and-busses')
for f in image_paths:
    !./darknet detector test \
    data/obj.data cfg/yolov4-tiny-bus-trucks.cfg\
    backup/yolov4-tiny-bus-trucks_4000.weights {f}
    !mv predictions.jpg {stem(f)}_pred.jpg
for i in Glob('*_pred.jpg'):
    show(read(i, 1), sz=20)
The preceding code results in this:
 
Now that we have learned about leveraging YOLO to perform object detection on
our custom dataset, in the next section, we will learn about leveraging SSD to
perform object detection.
Working details of SSD
So far, we have seen a scenario where we made predictions after gradually
convolving and pooling the output from the previous layer. However, we know
that different layers have different receptive fields to the original image. For
example, the initial layers have a smaller receptive field when compared to the

--- Strana 439 ---
final layers, which have a larger receptive field. Here, we will learn how SSD
leverages this phenomenon to come up with a prediction of bounding boxes for
images.
The workings behind how SSD helps overcome the issue of detecting objects with
different scales is as follows:
We leverage the pre-trained VGG network and extend it with a few additional
layers until we obtain a 1 x 1 block.
Instead of leveraging only the final layer for bounding box and class
predictions, we will leverage all of the last few layers to make class and
bounding box predictions.
In place of anchor boxes, we will come up with default boxes that have a
specific set of scale and aspect ratios.
Each of the default boxes should predict the object and bounding box offset
just like how anchor boxes are expected to predict classes and offsets in
YOLO.
Now that we understand the main ways in which SSD differs from YOLO (which
is that default boxes in SSD replace anchor boxes in YOLO and multiple layers
are connected to the final layer in SSD, instead of gradual convolution pooling in
YOLO), let's learn about the following:
The network architecture of SSD
How to leverage different layers for bounding box and class predictions
How to assign scale and aspect ratios for default boxes in different layers
The network architecture of SSD is as follows:

--- Strana 440 ---
As you can see in the preceding diagram, we are taking an image of size 300 x 300
x 3 and passing it through a pre-trained VGG-16 network to obtain the conv5_3

--- Strana 441 ---
layer's output. Furthermore, we are extending the network by adding a few more
convolutions to the conv5_3 output.
Next, we obtain a bounding box offset and class prediction for each cell and each
default box (more on default boxes in the next section; for now, let's imagine that
this is similar to an anchor box). The total number of predictions coming from the
conv5_3 output is 38 x 38 x 4, where 38 x 38 is the output shape of the conv5_3 layer
and 4 is the number of default boxes operating on the conv5_3 layer. Similarly, the
total number of parameters across the network is as follows:
Layer
Number of parameters
conv5_3
38 X 38 X 4 = 5,776
FC6
19 X 19 X 6 = 2,166
conv8_2
10 X 10 X 6 = 600
conv9_2
5 X 5 X 6 = 150
conv10_2
3 X 3 X 4 = 36
conv11_2
1 X 1 X 4 = 4
Total parameters
8732
 
Note that certain layers have a larger number of boxes (6 and not 4) when
compared to other layers in the architecture described in the original paper.
Now, let's learn about the different scales and aspect ratios of default boxes. We
will start with scales and then proceed to aspect ratios.
Let's imagine a scenario where the minimum scale of an object is 20% of the
height and 20% of the width of an image, and the maximum scale of the object is
90% of the height and 90% of the width. In such a scenario, we gradually increase
scale across layers (as we proceed toward later layers, the image size shrinks
considerably), as follows:

--- Strana 442 ---
The formula that enables the gradual scaling of the image is as follows:

--- Strana 443 ---
Now that we understand how to calculate scale across layers, we will now learn
about coming up with boxes of different aspect ratios.
The possible aspect ratios are as follows:
The center of the box for different layers are as follows:
Here i and j together represent a cell in layer l.
The width and height corresponding to different aspect ratios are calculated as
follows:
Note that we were considering four boxes in certain layers and six boxes in
another layer. Now, if we want to have four boxes, we remove the {3,1/3} aspect
ratios, else we consider all of the six possible boxes (five boxes with the same
scale and one box with a different scale). So, let's learn how we obtain the
sixth box:
Now that we have all the possible boxes, let's understand how we prepare the
training dataset.

--- Strana 444 ---
The default boxes that have an IoU greater than a threshold (say, 0.5) are
considered positive matches, and the rest are negative matches.
In the output of SSD, we predict the probability of the box belonging to a class
(where the 0th class represents the background) and also the offset of the ground
truth with respect to the default box.
Finally, we train the model by optimizing the following loss values:
Classification loss: This is represented using the following equation:
In the preceding equation, pos represents the few default boxes that have a
high overlap with the ground truth, while neg represents the misclassified
boxes that were predicting a class but in fact did not contain an object.
Finally, we ensure that the pos:neg ratio is at most 1:3, as if we do not
perform this sampling, we would have a dominance of background class
boxes.
Localization loss: For localization, we consider the loss values only when
the objectness score is greater than a certain threshold. The localization loss
is calculated as follows:
 

--- Strana 445 ---
Here t is the predicted offset and d is the actual offset.
Now that we understand how to train SSD, let's use it for our bus versus truck
object detection exercise in the next section.
The core utility functions for this section are present in the GitHub repo: https://gi
thub.com/sizhky/ssd-utils/. Let's learn about them one by one before starting the
training process.
Components in SSD code
There are three files in the GitHub repo. Let's dig into them a little and understand
them before training. Note that this section is not part of the training process,
but is instead for understanding the imports used during training. 
We are importing the SSD300 and MultiBoxLoss classes from the model.py file in the
GitHub repository. Let's learn about both of them.
SSD300
When you look at the SSD300 function definition, it is evident that the model
comprises three sub-modules:

--- Strana 446 ---
class SSD300(nn.Module):
    ...
    def __init__(self, n_classes, device):
        ...
        self.base = VGGBase()
        self.aux_convs = AuxiliaryConvolutions()
        self.pred_convs = PredictionConvolutions(n_classes)
        ...
We send the input to VGGBase first, which returns two feature vectors of
dimensions (N, 512, 38, 38) and (N, 1024, 19, 19). The second output is going to be
the input for AuxiliaryConvolutions, which returns more feature maps of
dimensions (N, 512, 10, 10), (N, 256, 5, 5), (N, 256, 3, 3), and (N, 256, 1, 1). Finally,
the first output from VGGBase and these four feature maps are sent
to PredictionConvolutions, which returns 8,732 anchor boxes as we discussed
previously. 
The other key aspect of the SSD300 class is the create_prior_boxes method. For every
feature map, there are three items associated with it: the size of the grid, the scale
to shrink the grid cell by (this is the base anchor box for this feature map), and the
aspect ratios for all anchors in a cell. Using these three configurations, the code
uses a triple for loop and creates a list of (cx, cy, w, h) for all 8,732 anchor boxes.
Finally, the detect_objects method takes tensors of classification and regression
values (of the predicted anchor boxes) and converts them to actual bounding box
coordinates.
MultiBoxLoss
As humans, we are only worried about a handful of bounding boxes. But for the
way SSD works, we need to compare 8,732 bounding boxes from several feature
maps and predict whether an anchor box contains valuable information or not. We
assign this loss computation task to MultiBoxLoss.
The input for the forward method is the anchor box predictions from the model
and the ground truth bounding boxes.
First, we convert the ground truth boxes into a list of 8,732 anchor boxes by
comparing each anchor from the model with the bounding box. If the IoU is high
enough, that particular anchor box will have non-zero regression coordinates and
associates an object as the ground truth for classification. Naturally, most of the
computed anchor boxes will have their associated class as background because their
IoU with the actual bounding box will be tiny or, in quite a few cases, zero. 

--- Strana 447 ---
Once the ground truths are converted to these 8,732 anchor box regression and
classification tensors, it is easy to compare them with the model's predictions since
the shapes are now the same.
We perform MSE-Loss on the regression tensor and CrossEntropy-Loss on the
localization tensor and add them up to be returned as the final loss.
Training SSD on a custom dataset
In the following code, we will train the SSD algorithm to detect the bounding
boxes around objects present in images. We will use the truck versus bus object
detection task we have been working on:
The following code is available as Training_SSD.ipynb in the Chapter08 folder of this book's GitHub
repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code contains URLs to download data from and is
moderately lengthy. We strongly recommend you to execute the notebook in GitHub to reproduce
results while you understand the steps to perform and explanation of various code components
from text.
1. Download the image dataset and clone the Git repository hosting the code for
the model and the other utilities for processing the data:
import os
if not os.path.exists('open-images-bus-trucks'):
    !pip install -q torch_snippets
    !wget --quiet https://www.dropbox.com/s/agmzwk95v96ihic/\
    open-images-bus-trucks.tar.xz
    !tar -xf open-images-bus-trucks.tar.xz
    !rm open-images-bus-trucks.tar.xz
    !git clone https://github.com/sizhky/ssd-utils/
%cd ssd-utils
2. Pre-process the data, just like we did in the Training Faster R-CNN on a
custom dataset section:
from torch_snippets import *
DATA_ROOT = '../open-images-bus-trucks/'
IMAGE_ROOT = f'{DATA_ROOT}/images'
DF_RAW = pd.read_csv(f'{DATA_ROOT}/df.csv')
df = DF_RAW.copy()
df = df[df['ImageID'].isin(df['ImageID'].unique().tolist())]
label2target = {l:t+1 for t,l in enumerate(DF_RAW['LabelName'].unique())}
label2target['background'] = 0
target2label = {t:l for l,t in label2target.items()}
background_class = label2target['background']
num_classes = len(label2target)
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'

--- Strana 448 ---
3. Prepare a dataset class, just like we did in the Training Faster R-CNN on a
custom dataset section:
import collections, os, torch
from PIL import Image
from torchvision import transforms
normalize = transforms.Normalize(
                mean=[0.485, 0.456, 0.406],
                std=[0.229, 0.224, 0.225]
            )
denormalize = transforms.Normalize(
                mean=[-0.485/0.229,-0.456/0.224,-0.406/0.255],
                std=[1/0.229, 1/0.224, 1/0.255]
            )
def preprocess_image(img):
    img = torch.tensor(img).permute(2,0,1)
    img = normalize(img)
    return img.to(device).float()
    
class OpenDataset(torch.utils.data.Dataset):
    w, h = 300, 300
    def __init__(self, df, image_dir=IMAGE_ROOT):
        self.image_dir = image_dir
        self.files = glob.glob(self.image_dir+'/*')
        self.df = df
        self.image_infos = df.ImageID.unique()
        logger.info(f'{len(self)} items loaded')
        
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        # load images and masks
        image_id = self.image_infos[ix]
        img_path = find(image_id, self.files)
        img = Image.open(img_path).convert("RGB")
        img = np.array(img.resize((self.w, self.h), \
                       resample=Image.BILINEAR))/255.
        data = df[df['ImageID'] == image_id]
        labels = data['LabelName'].values.tolist()
        data = data[['XMin','YMin','XMax','YMax']].values
        data[:,[0,2]] *= self.w
        data[:,[1,3]] *= self.h
        boxes = data.astype(np.uint32).tolist() # convert to 
        # absolute coordinates
        return img, boxes, labels
    def collate_fn(self, batch):
        images, boxes, labels = [], [], []
        for item in batch:
            img, image_boxes, image_labels = item
            img = preprocess_image(img)[None]
            images.append(img)
            boxes.append(torch.tensor( \
                        image_boxes).float().to(device)/300.)
            labels.append(torch.tensor([label2target[c] \
                    for c in image_labels]).long().to(device))
        images = torch.cat(images).to(device)
        return images, boxes, labels
    def __len__(self):
        return len(self.image_infos)
4. Prepare the training and test datasets and the dataloaders:

--- Strana 449 ---
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
trn_ids, val_ids = train_test_split(df.ImageID.unique(), \
                             test_size=0.1, random_state=99)
trn_df, val_df = df[df['ImageID'].isin(trn_ids)], \
                df[df['ImageID'].isin(val_ids)]
train_ds = OpenDataset(trn_df)
test_ds = OpenDataset(val_df)
train_loader = DataLoader(train_ds, batch_size=4, \
                          collate_fn=train_ds.collate_fn, \
                          drop_last=True)
test_loader = DataLoader(test_ds, batch_size=4, \
                         collate_fn=test_ds.collate_fn, \
                         drop_last=True)
5. Define functions to train on a batch of data and calculate the accuracy and
loss values on the validation data:
def train_batch(inputs, model, criterion, optimizer):
    model.train()
    N = len(train_loader)
    images, boxes, labels = inputs
    _regr, _clss = model(images)
    loss = criterion(_regr, _clss, boxes, labels)
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    return loss
    
@torch.no_grad()
def validate_batch(inputs, model, criterion):
    model.eval()
    images, boxes, labels = inputs
    _regr, _clss = model(images)
    loss = criterion(_regr, _clss, boxes, labels)
    return loss
6. Import the model:
from model import SSD300, MultiBoxLoss
from detect import *
7. Initialize the model, optimizer, and loss function:
n_epochs = 5
model = SSD300(num_classes, device)
optimizer = torch.optim.AdamW(model.parameters(), lr=1e-4, \
                              weight_decay=1e-5)
criterion = MultiBoxLoss(priors_cxcy=model.priors_cxcy, \
                         device=device)
log = Report(n_epochs=n_epochs)
logs_to_print = 5
8. Train the model over increasing epochs:
for epoch in range(n_epochs):
    _n = len(train_loader)

--- Strana 450 ---
    for ix, inputs in enumerate(train_loader):
        loss = train_batch(inputs, model, criterion, \
                            optimizer)
        pos = (epoch + (ix+1)/_n)
        log.record(pos, trn_loss=loss.item(), end='\r')
    _n = len(test_loader)
    for ix,inputs in enumerate(test_loader):
        loss = validate_batch(inputs, model, criterion)
        pos = (epoch + (ix+1)/_n)
        log.record(pos, val_loss=loss.item(), end='\r')
The variation of training and test loss values over epochs is as follows:
9. Fetch a prediction on a new image:
Fetch a random image:
image_paths = Glob(f'{DATA_ROOT}/images/*')
image_id = choose(test_ds.image_infos)
img_path = find(image_id, test_ds.files)
original_image = Image.open(img_path, mode='r')
original_image = original_image.convert('RGB')
Fetch the bounding box, label, and score corresponding to the objects present
in the image:

--- Strana 451 ---
bbs, labels, scores = detect(original_image, model, \
                             min_score=0.9, max_overlap=0.5,\
                             top_k=200, device=device)
Overlay the obtained output on the image:
labels = [target2label[c.item()] for c in labels]
label_with_conf = [f'{l} @ {s:.2f}' \
                   for l,s in zip(labels,scores)]
print(bbs, label_with_conf)
show(original_image, bbs=bbs, \
     texts=label_with_conf, text_sz=10)
The preceding code fetches a sample of outputs as follows (one image for each
iteration of execution):
From this, we can see that we can detect objects in the image reasonably
accurately.
Summary
In this chapter, we have learned about the working details of modern object
detection algorithms: Faster R-CNN, YOLO, and SSD. We learned how they
overcome the limitation of having two separate models – one for fetching region
proposals and the other for fetching class and bounding box offsets on region
proposals. Furthermore, we implemented Faster R-CNN using PyTorch, YOLO
using darknet, and SSD from scratch. 
In the next chapter, we will learn about image segmentation, which goes one step
beyond object localization by identifying the pixels that correspond to an object.
Furthermore, in Chapter 15, Combining Computer Vision and NLP Techniques, we
will learn about DETR, a transformer-based object detection algorithm, and in Chap

--- Strana 452 ---
ter 10, Applications of Object Detection, and Segmentation, we will learn about the
Detectron2 framework, which helps in not only detecting objects but also
segmenting them in a single shot.
Test your understanding
1. Why is Faster R-CNN faster when compared to Fast R-CNN?
2. How are YOLO and SSD faster when compared to Faster R-CNN?
3. What makes YOLO and SSD single-shot algorithms?
4. What is the difference between the objectness score and the class score?
5. What is the difference between an anchor box and a default box?

--- Strana 453 ---
Image Segmentation
In the previous chapter, we learned about detecting objects present in
images, along with the classes that correspond to the detected objects. In this
chapter, we will go one step further by not only drawing a bounding box
around the object but also by identifying the exact pixels that contain an
object. In addition to that, by the end of this chapter, we will be able to
single out instances/objects that belong to the same class. 
In this chapter, we will learn about semantic segmentation and instance
segmentation by taking a look at the U-Net and Mask R-CNN architectures.
Specifically, we will cover the following topics:
Exploring the U-Net architecture
Implementing semantic segmentation using U-Net
Exploring the Mask R-CNN architecture
Implementing instance segmentation using Mask R-CNN
A succinct image of what we are trying to achieve through
image segmentation (https://arxiv.org/pdf/1405.0312.pdf) is as follows:
 

--- Strana 454 ---
Let's get started!
Exploring the U-Net architecture
Imagine a scenario where you've been given an image and been asked to
predict which pixel corresponds to what object. So far, when we have been
predicting the class of an object and the bounding box corresponding to the
object, we passed the image through a network, which then passes the image
through a backbone architecture (such as VGG or ResNet), flattens the
output at a certain layer, and connects additional dense layers before making
predictions for the class and bounding box offsets. However, in the case of
image segmentation, where the output shape is the same as that of the input
image's shape, flattening the convolutions' outputs and then reconstructing
the image might result in a loss of information. Furthermore, the contours
and shapes present in the original image will not vary in the output image in
the case of image segmentation, so the networks we have dealt with so far
(which flatten the last layer and connect additional dense layers) are not
optimal when we are performing segmentation.
In this section, we will learn about how to perform image segmentation.
The two aspects that we need to keep in mind while performing
segmentation are as follows:
The shape and structure of the objects in the original image remain the
same in the segmented output.
Leveraging a fully convolutional architecture (and not a structure where
we flatten a certain layer) can help here since we are using one image as
input and another as output.
The U-Net architecture helps us achieve this. A typical representation of U-
Net is as follows (the input image is of the shape 3 x 96 x 128, while the
number of classes present in the image is 21; this means that the output
contains 21 channels):

--- Strana 455 ---
The preceding architecture is called a U-Net architecture because of its
"U"-like shape.
In the left half of the preceding diagram, we can see that the image passes
through convolution layers, as we have seen in previous chapters, and that
the image size keeps reducing while the number of channels keeps
increasing. However, in the right half, we can see that we are upscaling the

--- Strana 456 ---
downscaled image, back to the original height and width but with as many
channels as there are classes.
In addition, while upscaling, we are also leveraging information from the
corresponding layers in the left half using skip connections so that we can
preserve the structure/objects in the original image.
This way, the U-Net architecture learns to preserve the structure (and shapes
of objects) of the original image while leveraging the convolution's features
to predict the classes that correspond to each pixel.
In general, we have as many channels in the output as the number of classes
we want to predict.
Performing upscaling
In the U-Net architecture, upscaling is performed using the nn.ConvTranspose2d
method, which takes the number of input channels, the number of output
channels, the kernel size, and stride as input parameters. An example
calculation for ConvTranspose2d is as follows:

--- Strana 457 ---
In the preceding example, we took an input array of shape 3 x 3
(Input array), applied a stride of 2 where we distributed the input values to
accommodate the stride (Input array adjusted for stride), padded the array

--- Strana 458 ---
with zeros (Input array adjusted for stride and padding), and convolved
the padded input with a filter (Filter/Kernel) to fetch the output array.
By leveraging a combination of padding and stride, we have upscaled an input that is 3
x 3 in shape to an array of 6 x 6 in shape. While the preceding example is only for
illustration purposes, the optimal filter values learn (because the filter weights and bias
are optimized during the model training process) to reconstruct the original image as
much as possible.
The hyperparameters in nn.ConvTranspose2d are as follows:
In order to understand how nn.ConvTranspose2d helps upscale an array, let's go
through the following code:
1. Import the relevant packages:
import torch
import torch.nn as nn
2. Initialize a network, m, with the nn.ConvTranspose2d method:
m = nn.ConvTranspose2d(1, 1, kernel_size=(2,2), 
                       stride=2, padding = 0)

--- Strana 459 ---
In the preceding code, we are specifying that the input channel's
value is 1, the output channel's value is 1, the size of the kernel is
(2,2), the stride is 2, and that the padding is 0.
Internally, padding is calculated as dilation * (kernel_size - 1) -
padding.
Hence 1*(2-1)-0 = 1, where we add zero padding of 1 to both
dimensions of the input array.
3. Initialize an input array and pass it through the model:
input = torch.ones(1, 1, 3, 3)
output = m(input)
output.shape
The preceding code results in a shape of 1x1x6x6, as shown in the example
image provided earlier.
Now that we understand how the U-Net architecture works and how
nn.ConvTranspose2d helps upscale an image, let's implement it so that we can
predict the different objects present in an image of a road scene.
Implementing semantic
segmentation using U-Net
In this section, we'll leverage the U-Net architecture to predict the class that
corresponds to all the pixels in the image. A sample of such an input-output
combination is as follows:

--- Strana 460 ---
Note that, in the preceding picture, the objects that belong to the same class
(in the left image – the input image) have the same pixel value (in the right
image – the output image), which is why we are segmenting the pixels that
are semantically similar to each other. This is also known as semantic
segmentation.
Now, let's learn how to code semantic segmentation:
The following code is available as Semantic_Segmentation_with_U_Net.ipynb in the Chapter09
folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code contains
URLs to download data from and is moderately lengthy. 
1. Let's begin by downloading the necessary datasets, installing the
necessary packages, and then importing them. Once we've done that,
we can define the device:
import os
if not os.path.exists('dataset1'):
    !wget -q \
     https://www.dropbox.com/s/0pigmmmynbf9xwq/dataset1.zip
    !unzip -q dataset1.zip
    !rm dataset1.zip
    !pip install -q torch_snippets pytorch_model_summary
from torch_snippets import *
from torchvision import transforms
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'

--- Strana 461 ---
2. Define the function that will be used to transform images (tfms):
tfms = transforms.Compose([
            transforms.ToTensor(),
            transforms.Normalize([0.485, 0.456, 0.406], 
                                 [0.229, 0.224, 0.225]) 
        ])
3. Define the dataset class (SegData):
Specify the folder that contains images in the __init__ method:
class SegData(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, split):
        self.items=stems(f'dataset1/images_prepped_{split}')
        self.split = split
Define the __len__ method:
    def __len__(self):
        return len(self.items)
Define the __getitem__ method:
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        image = read(f'dataset1/images_prepped_{self.split}/\
{self.items[ix]}.png', 1)
        image = cv2.resize(image, (224,224))
        mask=read(f'dataset1/annotations_prepped_{self.split}\
/{self.items[ix]}.png')
        mask = cv2.resize(mask, (224,224))
        return image, mask
In the __getitem__ method, we are resizing both the input (image)
and output (mask) images so that they're the same shape. Note that
the mask images contain integers that range between [0,11]. This
indicates that there are 12 different classes.
Define a function (choose) for selecting a random image index
(mainly for debugging purposes):
    def choose(self): return self[randint(len(self))]
Define the collate_fn method for performing preprocessing on a
batch of images:
    def collate_fn(self, batch):
        ims, masks = list(zip(*batch))

--- Strana 462 ---
        ims = torch.cat([tfms(im.copy()/255.)[None] \
                         for im in ims]).float().to(device)
        ce_masks = torch.cat([torch.Tensor(mask[None]) for \
                            mask in masks]).long().to(device)
        return ims, ce_masks
In the preceding code, we are preprocessing all the input images
so that they have a channel (so that each image can be passed
through a CNN later) once we've transformed the scaled images.
Notice that ce_masks is a tensor of long integers, similar to the
cross-entropy targets.
4. Define the training and validation datasets, as well as the dataloaders:
trn_ds = SegData('train')
val_ds = SegData('test')
trn_dl = DataLoader(trn_ds, batch_size=4, shuffle=True, \
                    collate_fn=trn_ds.collate_fn)
val_dl = DataLoader(val_ds, batch_size=1, shuffle=True, \
                    collate_fn=val_ds.collate_fn)
5. Define the neural network model:
Define the convolution block (conv):
def conv(in_channels, out_channels):
    return nn.Sequential(
        nn.Conv2d(in_channels,out_channels,kernel_size=3, \
                    stride=1, padding=1),
        nn.BatchNorm2d(out_channels),
        nn.ReLU(inplace=True)
    )
In the preceding definition of conv, we are sequentially performing
the Conv2d operation, the BatchNorm2d operation, and the ReLU
operation.
Define the up_conv block:
def up_conv(in_channels, out_channels):
    return nn.Sequential(
        nn.ConvTranspose2d(in_channels, out_channels, \
                           kernel_size=2, stride=2),
        nn.ReLU(inplace=True)
    )
ConvTranspose2d ensures that we upscale the images. This differs
from the Conv2d operation, where we reduce the dimensions of the

--- Strana 463 ---
image. It takes an image that has in_channels number of channels
as input channels and produces an image that has out_channels
number of output channels. 
Define the network class (UNet):
from torchvision.models import vgg16_bn
class UNet(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, pretrained=True, out_channels=12):
        super().__init__()
        self.encoder = \
                vgg16_bn(pretrained=pretrained).features
        self.block1 = nn.Sequential(*self.encoder[:6])
        self.block2 = nn.Sequential(*self.encoder[6:13])
        self.block3 = nn.Sequential(*self.encoder[13:20])
        self.block4 = nn.Sequential(*self.encoder[20:27])
        self.block5 = nn.Sequential(*self.encoder[27:34])
        self.bottleneck = nn.Sequential(*self.encoder[34:])
        self.conv_bottleneck = conv(512, 1024)
        self.up_conv6 = up_conv(1024, 512)
        self.conv6 = conv(512 + 512, 512)
        self.up_conv7 = up_conv(512, 256)
        self.conv7 = conv(256 + 512, 256)
        self.up_conv8 = up_conv(256, 128)
        self.conv8 = conv(128 + 256, 128)
        self.up_conv9 = up_conv(128, 64)
        self.conv9 = conv(64 + 128, 64)
        self.up_conv10 = up_conv(64, 32)
        self.conv10 = conv(32 + 64, 32)
        self.conv11 = nn.Conv2d(32, out_channels, \
                                kernel_size=1)
In the preceding __init__ method, we are defining all the layers
that we would use in the forward method.
Define the forward method:
    def forward(self, x):
        block1 = self.block1(x)
        block2 = self.block2(block1)
        block3 = self.block3(block2)
        block4 = self.block4(block3)
        block5 = self.block5(block4)
        bottleneck = self.bottleneck(block5)
        x = self.conv_bottleneck(bottleneck)
        x = self.up_conv6(x)
        x = torch.cat([x, block5], dim=1)
        x = self.conv6(x)
        x = self.up_conv7(x)

--- Strana 464 ---
        x = torch.cat([x, block4], dim=1)
        x = self.conv7(x)
        x = self.up_conv8(x)
        x = torch.cat([x, block3], dim=1)
        x = self.conv8(x)
        x = self.up_conv9(x)
        x = torch.cat([x, block2], dim=1)
        x = self.conv9(x)
        x = self.up_conv10(x)
        x = torch.cat([x, block1], dim=1)
        x = self.conv10(x)
        x = self.conv11(x)
        return x
In the preceding code, we are making the U-style connection
between the downscaling and upscaling convolution features by
using torch.cat on the appropriate pairs of tensors.
Define a function (UNetLoss) that will calculate our loss and accuracy
values:
ce = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
def UnetLoss(preds, targets):
    ce_loss = ce(preds, targets)
    acc = (torch.max(preds, 1)[1] == targets).float().mean()
    return ce_loss, acc
Define a function that will train on batch (train_batch) and calculate
metrics on the validation dataset (validate_batch):
def train_batch(model, data, optimizer, criterion):
    model.train()
    ims, ce_masks = data
    _masks = model(ims)
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    loss, acc = criterion(_masks, ce_masks)
    loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    return loss.item(), acc.item()
@torch.no_grad()
def validate_batch(model, data, criterion):
    model.eval()
    ims, masks = data
    _masks = model(ims)
    loss, acc = criterion(_masks, masks)
    return loss.item(), acc.item()

--- Strana 465 ---
Define the model, optimizer, loss function, and the number of
epochs:
model = UNet().to(device)
criterion = UnetLoss
optimizer = optim.Adam(model.parameters(), lr=1e-3)
n_epochs = 20
6. Train the model over increasing epochs:
log = Report(n_epochs)
for ex in range(n_epochs):
    N = len(trn_dl)
    for bx, data in enumerate(trn_dl):
        loss, acc = train_batch(model, data, optimizer, \
                                criterion)
        log.record(ex+(bx+1)/N,trn_loss=loss,trn_acc=acc, \
                                 end='\r')
    N = len(val_dl)
    for bx, data in enumerate(val_dl):
        loss, acc = validate_batch(model, data, criterion)
        log.record(ex+(bx+1)/N,val_loss=loss,val_acc=acc, \
                                 end='\r')
        
    log.report_avgs(ex+1)
7. Plot the training, validation loss, and accuracy values over increasing
epochs:
log.plot_epochs(['trn_loss','val_loss'])
The preceding code generates the following output:

--- Strana 466 ---
8. Calculate the predicted output on a new image:
Fetch model predictions on a new image:
im, mask = next(iter(val_dl))
_mask = model(im)
Fetch the channel that has the highest probability:
_, _mask = torch.max(_mask, dim=1)
Show the original and predicted images:
subplots([im[0].permute(1,2,0).detach().cpu()[:,:,0], \
          mask.permute(1,2,0).detach().cpu()[:,:,0], \
          _mask.permute(1,2,0).detach().cpu()[:,:,0]],nc=3, \

--- Strana 467 ---
          titles=['Original image','Original mask', \
          'Predicted mask'])
The preceding code generates the following output:
From the preceding picture, we can see that we can successfully generate a
segmentation mask using the U-Net architecture. However, all instances of
the same class will have the same predicted pixel value. What if we want to
separate the instances of the Person class in the image? In the next section, we
will learn about the Mask R-CNN architecture, which helps with generating
instance-level masks so that we can differentiate between instances (even
instances of the same class).
Exploring the Mask R-CNN
architecture

--- Strana 468 ---
The Mask R-CNN architecture helps in identifying/highlighting the
instances of objects of a given class within an image. This comes in
especially handy when there are multiple objects of the same type present
within the image. Furthermore, the term Mask represents the segmentation
that's done at the pixel level by Mask R-CNN.
The Mask R-CNN architecture is an extension of the Faster R-CNN
network, which we learned about in the previous chapter. However, a few
modifications have been made to the Mask R-CNN architecture, as follows:
The RoI Pooling layer has been replaced with the RoI Align layer.
A mask head has been included to predict a mask of objects in addition
to the head, which already predicts the classes of objects and bounding
box correction in the final layer.
A fully convolutional network (FCN) is leveraged for mask
prediction.
Let's have a quick look at the events that occur within Mask R-CNN before
we understand how each of the components works (image source: https://arx
iv.org/pdf/1703.06870.pdf):
In the preceding diagram, note that we are fetching the class and bounding
box information from one layer and the mask information from another

--- Strana 469 ---
layer.
The working details of the Mask R-CNN architecture are as follows:
Before we implement the Mask R-CNN architecture, we need to understand
its components. We'll start with RoI Align.

--- Strana 470 ---
RoI Align
With Faster R-CNN, we learned about RoI Pooling. One of the drawbacks of
RoI Pooling is that we are likely to lose certain information when we are
performing the RoI pooling operation. This is because we are likely to have
an even representation of content across all the areas of an image before
pooling.
Let's go through the example we provided in the previous chapter:

--- Strana 471 ---
In the preceding image, the region proposal is 5 x 7 in shape and we have to
convert it into a 2 x 2 shape. While converting it into a 2 x 2 shape (a
phenomenon called quantization), one part of the region has less
representation compared to other parts of the region. This results in
information loss since certain parts of the region have more weight than
others. RoI Align comes to the rescue to address such a scenario.
To understand how RoI Align works, let's go through a simple example.
Here, we are trying to convert the following region (which is represented in
dashed lines) into a 2 x 2 shape:
Note that the region (in dashed lines) is not equally spread across all the cells
in the feature map.
We must perform the following steps to get a reasonable representation of
the region in a 2 x 2 shape:
1. First, divide the region into an equal 2 x 2 shape:

--- Strana 472 ---
2. Define four points that are equally spaced within each of the 2 x 2 cells:
Note that, in the preceding diagram, the distance between two
consecutive points is 0.75.
3. Calculate the weighted average value of each point based on its
distance to the nearest known value:

--- Strana 473 ---
4. Repeat the preceding interpolation step for all four points in a cell:
5. Perform average pooling across all four points within a cell:
By implementing the preceding steps, we don't lose out on information when
performing RoI Align; that is, when we place all the regions inside the same
shape.
Mask head

--- Strana 474 ---
Using RoI Align, we can get a more accurate representation of the region
proposal that is obtained from the Region Proposal Network. Now, we want
to obtain the segmentation (mask) output, given a standard shaped RoI Align
output, for every region proposal.
Typically, in the case of object detection, we would pass the RoI Align
through a flattened layer in order to predict the object's class and bounding
box offset. However, in the case of image segmentation, we predict the
pixels within a bounding box that contains the object. Hence, we now have a
third output (apart from class and bounding box offset), which is the
predicted mask within the region of interest.
Here, we are predicting the mask, which is an image overlay on top of the
original image. Given that we are predicting an image, instead of flattening
the RoI Align's output, we'll connect it to another convolution layer to get
another image-like structure (width x height in dimension). Let's understand
this phenomenon by taking a look at the following diagram:
In the preceding diagram, we have obtained an output of shape 7 x 7 x 2048
using the feature pyramid network (FPN), which now has 2 branches:

--- Strana 475 ---
The first branch returns the class of the object and the bounding box,
post flattening the FPN output.
The second branch performs convolution on top of the FPN's output to
get a mask.
The ground truth corresponding to the 14 x 14 output is the resized image of
the region proposals. The ground truth of the region proposal is of the shape
80 x 14 x 14 if there are 80 unique classes in the dataset. Each of the 80 x 14
x 14 pixels is a 1 or a 0, which indicates whether the pixel contains an object
or not. Thus, we are performing binary cross-entropy loss minimization
while predicting the class of a pixel. 
Post model training, we are able to detect regions, get classes, get bounding
box offsets, and get the mask corresponding to each region. When making an
inference, we first detect the objects present in the image and make
bounding box corrections. Then, we pass the offsetted region to the mask
head to predict the mask that corresponds to different pixels in the region.
Now that we understand how the Mask R-CNN architecture works, let's
code it up so that we can detect instances of people in an image.
Implementing instance
segmentation using Mask R-CNN
To help us understand how to code Mask R-CNN for instance segmentation,
we will leverage a dataset that masks people who are present within an
image. The dataset we'll be using has been created from a subset of the
ADE20K dataset, which is available at https://groups.csail.mit.edu/vision/datase
ts/ADE20K/. We will only use those images where we have masks for people.
The strategy that we'll adopt is as follows:
1. Fetch the dataset and then create datasets and dataloaders from it.
2. Create a ground truth in a format needed for PyTorch's official
implementation of Mask R-CNN.

--- Strana 476 ---
3. Download the pre-trained Faster R-CNN model and attach a Mask R-
CNN head to it.
4. Train the model with a PyTorch code snippet that has been standardized
for training Mask R-CNN.
5. Infer on an image by performing non-max suppression first and then
identifying the bounding box and the mask corresponding to the people
in the image.
Let's code up the preceding strategy:
The following code is available as Instance_Segmentation.ipynb in the Chapter09 folder of this
book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code contains URLs to
download data from and is moderately lengthy. We strongly recommend you to execute
the notebook in GitHub to reproduce results while you understand the steps to perform
and explanation of various code components from text.
1. Import the relevant dataset and training utilities from GitHub:
!wget --quiet \
 http://sceneparsing.csail.mit.edu/data/ChallengeData2017/images.tar
!wget --quiet \ 
http://sceneparsing.csail.mit.edu/data/ChallengeData2017/annotations_instan
ce.tar
!tar -xf images.tar
!tar -xf annotations_instance.tar
!rm images.tar annotations_instance.tar
!pip install -qU torch_snippets
!wget --quiet \ 
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pytorch/vision/master/references/detectio
n/engine.py
!wget --quiet \ 
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pytorch/vision/master/references/detectio
n/utils.py
!wget --quiet \ 
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pytorch/vision/master/references/detectio
n/transforms.py
!wget --quiet \ 
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pytorch/vision/master/references/detectio
n/coco_eval.py
!wget --quiet \ 
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pytorch/vision/master/references/detectio
n/coco_utils.py
!pip install -q -U \
    'git+https://github.com/cocodataset/cocoapi.git#subdirectory=PythonAPI'
2. Import all the necessary packages and define device:
from torch_snippets import *
import torchvision
from torchvision.models.detection.faster_rcnn import FastRCNNPredictor
from torchvision.models.detection.mask_rcnn import MaskRCNNPredictor

--- Strana 477 ---
from engine import train_one_epoch, evaluate
import utils
import transforms as T
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
3. Fetch images that contain masks of people, as follows:
Loop through the images and annotations_instance folders to fetch
filenames:
all_images = Glob('images/training')
all_annots = Glob('annotations_instance/training')
Inspect the original image and the representation of masks of
instances of people:
f = 'ADE_train_00014301'
im = read(find(f, all_images), 1)
an = read(find(f, all_annots), 1).transpose(2,0,1)
r,g,b = an
nzs = np.nonzero(r==4) # 4 stands for person
instances = np.unique(g[nzs])
masks = np.zeros((len(instances), *r.shape))
for ix,_id in enumerate(instances):
    masks[ix] = g==_id
subplots([im, *masks], sz=20)
The preceding code generates the following output:
From the preceding image, we can see that a separate mask has
been generated for each person. Here, there are four instances of
the Person class.
In this particular dataset, the ground truth instance annotations are provided in such a
way that the Red channel in RGB corresponds to the class of object, while the Green

--- Strana 478 ---
channel corresponds to the instance number (in case there are multiple objects of the
same class in the image – as in our example here). Furthermore, the Person class is
encoded with a value of 4.
Loop through the annotations and store the files that contain at least
one person:
annots = []
for ann in Tqdm(all_annots):
    _ann = read(ann, 1).transpose(2,0,1)
    r,g,b = _ann
    if 4 not in np.unique(r): continue
    annots.append(ann)
Split the files into training and validation files:
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
_annots = stems(annots)
trn_items,val_items=train_test_split(_annots,random_state=2)
4. Define the transformation method:
def get_transform(train):
    transforms = []
    transforms.append(T.ToTensor())
    if train:
        transforms.append(T.RandomHorizontalFlip(0.5))
    return T.Compose(transforms)
5. Create the dataset class (MasksDataset), as follows:
Define the __init__ method, which takes the image names (items),
transformation method (transforms), and the number of files to
consider (N) as input:
class MasksDataset(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, items, transforms, N):
        self.items = items
        self.transforms = transforms
        self.N = N
Define a method (get_mask) that will fetch a number of masks that's
equivalent to the instances present in the image:
    def get_mask(self, path):
        an = read(path, 1).transpose(2,0,1)
        r,g,b = an
        nzs = np.nonzero(r==4)
        instances = np.unique(g[nzs])
        masks = np.zeros((len(instances), *r.shape))

--- Strana 479 ---
        for ix,_id in enumerate(instances):
            masks[ix] = g==_id
        return masks
Fetch the image and the corresponding target values to be returned.
Each person (instance) is treated as a different object class; that is,
each instance is a different class. Note that, similar to training the
Faster R-CNN model, the targets are returned as a dictionary of
tensors. Let's define the __getitem__ method:
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        _id = self.items[ix]
        img_path = f'images/training/{_id}.jpg'
        mask_path=f'annotations_instance/training/{_id}.png'
        masks = self.get_mask(mask_path)
        obj_ids = np.arange(1, len(masks)+1)
        img = Image.open(img_path).convert("RGB")
        num_objs = len(obj_ids)
Apart from the masks themselves, Mask R-CNN also needs the
bounding box information. However, this is easy to prepare, as
shown in the following code:
        boxes = []
        for i in range(num_objs):
            obj_pixels = np.where(masks[i])
            xmin = np.min(obj_pixels[1])
            xmax = np.max(obj_pixels[1])
            ymin = np.min(obj_pixels[0])
            ymax = np.max(obj_pixels[0])
            if (((xmax-xmin)<=10) | (ymax-ymin)<=10):
                xmax = xmin+10
                ymax = ymin+10
            boxes.append([xmin, ymin, xmax, ymax])
In the preceding code, we are adjusting for scenarios where there
are dubious ground truths (the height or width of the Person class
is less than 10 pixels) by adding 10 pixels to the minimums of the
x and y coordinates of the bounding box.
Convert all the target values into tensor objects:
        boxes = torch.as_tensor(boxes, dtype=torch.float32)
        labels = torch.ones((num_objs,), dtype=torch.int64)
        masks = torch.as_tensor(masks, dtype=torch.uint8)
        area = (boxes[:, 3] - boxes[:, 1]) *\
                    (boxes[:, 2] - boxes[:, 0])
        iscrowd = torch.zeros((num_objs,), dtype=torch.int64)
        image_id = torch.tensor([ix])

--- Strana 480 ---
Store the target values in a dictionary:
        target = {}
        target["boxes"] = boxes
        target["labels"] = labels
        target["masks"] = masks
        target["image_id"] = image_id
        target["area"] = area
        target["iscrowd"] = iscrowd
Specify the transformation method and return image; that is, target:
        if self.transforms is not None:
            img, target = self.transforms(img, target)
        return img, target
Specify the __len__ method:
    def __len__(self):
        return self.N
Define the function that will choose a random image:
    def choose(self):
        return self[randint(len(self))]
Inspect an input-output combination:
x = MasksDataset(trn_items, get_transform(train=True), N=100)
im,targ = x[0]
inspect(im,targ)
subplots([im, *targ['masks']], sz=10)
The following is some example output that the preceding code
produces when it's run:

--- Strana 481 ---
From the preceding output, we can see that the masks' shape is 2
x 512 x 683, indicating there are two people in the image.

--- Strana 482 ---
Note that, in the __getitem__ method, we have as many masks and
bounding boxes in an image as there are objects (instances)
present within the image. Furthermore, because we only have two
classes (the Background class and the Person class), we are specifying
the Person class as 1.
By the end of this step, we have quite a lot of information in the
output dictionary; that is, the object classes, bounding boxes,
masks, the area of the masks, and if a mask corresponds to a
crowd. All of this information is available in the target
dictionary. For the training function that we are going to use, it is
important for the data to be standardized in the format that
the torchvision.models.detection.maskrcnn_resnet50_fpn class requires it
to be in.
6. Next, we need to define the instance segmentation model
(get_model_instance_segmentation). We are going to use a pre-trained model
with only the heads reinitialized to predict two classes (background and
person). First, we need to initialize a pre-trained model and replace the
box_predictor and mask_predictor heads so that they can be learned from
scratch:
def get_model_instance_segmentation(num_classes):
    # load an instance segmentation model pre-trained on 
    # COCO
    model = torchvision.models.detection\
                       .maskrcnn_resnet50_fpn(pretrained=True)
    # get number of input features for the classifier
    in_features = model.roi_heads\
                       .box_predictor.cls_score.in_features
    # replace the pre-trained head with a new one
    model.roi_heads.box_predictor = FastRCNNPredictor(\
                                    in_features,num_classes)
    in_features_mask = model.roi_heads\
                       .mask_predictor.conv5_mask.in_channels
    hidden_layer = 256
    # and replace the mask predictor with a new one
    model.roi_heads.mask_predictor = MaskRCNNPredictor(\
                                      in_features_mask,\
                                   hidden_layer, num_classes)
    return model
FastRCNNPredictor expects two inputs – in_features (the number of input
channels) and num_classes (the number of classes). Based on the

--- Strana 483 ---
number of classes to predict, the number of bounding box predictions
is calculated – which is four times the number of classes.
MaskRCNNPredictor expects three inputs – in_features_mask (the number of
input channels), hidden_layer (the number of channels in the
output), and num_classes (the number of classes to predict).
details of the defined model can be obtained by specifying the
following:
model = get_model_instance_segmentation(2).to(device)
model
The bottom half of the model (that is, without the backbone) would
look like this:

--- Strana 484 ---
Note that the major difference between the Faster R-CNN network
(which we trained in the previous chapter) and the Mask R-CNN
model is in the roi_heads module, which itself contains multiple sub-
modules. Let's take a look at what tasks they perform:
roi_heads: Aligns the inputs taken from the FPN network and creates
two tensors.
box_predictor: Uses the outputs we obtained to predict classes and
bounding box offsets for each RoI.

--- Strana 485 ---
mask_roi_pool: RoI then aligns the outputs coming from the FPN
network.
mask_head: Converts the aligned outputs obtained previously into
feature maps that can be used to predict masks.
mask_predictor: Takes the outputs from mask_head and predicts the final
masks.
7. Fetch the dataset and dataloaders that correspond to the train and
validation images:
dataset = MasksDataset(trn_items, get_transform(train=True), \
                                                    N=3000)
dataset_test = MasksDataset(val_items, \
                           get_transform(train=False), N=800)
# define training and validation data loaders
data_loader=torch.utils.data.DataLoader(dataset,batch_size=2, \
                                shuffle=True, num_workers=0, \
                                 collate_fn=utils.collate_fn)
data_loader_test = torch.utils.data.DataLoader(dataset_test, \
                                batch_size=1, shuffle=False, \
                   num_workers=0,collate_fn=utils.collate_fn)
8. Define the model, parameters, and optimization criterion:
num_classes = 2
model = get_model_instance_segmentation(\
                        num_classes).to(device)
params = [p for p in model.parameters() if p.requires_grad]
optimizer = torch.optim.SGD(params, lr=0.005, \
                            momentum=0.9,weight_decay=0.0005)
# and a learning rate scheduler
lr_scheduler = torch.optim.lr_scheduler.StepLR(optimizer, \
                                                step_size=3, \
                                                gamma=0.1)
The defined pre-trained model architecture takes the image and the
targets dictionary as input to reduce loss. A sample of the output that
will be received from the model can be seen by running the following
command:
# The following code is for illustration purpose only
model.eval()
pred = model(dataset[0][0][None].to(device))
inspect(pred[0])
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 486 ---
Here, we can see a dictionary with bounding boxes (BOXES), classes
corresponding to bounding boxes (LABELS), confidence scores
corresponding to class predictions (SCORES), and the location of our
mask instances (MASKS). As you can see, the model is hardcoded to
return 100 predictions, which is reasonable since we shouldn't expect
more than 100 objects in a typical image.
To fetch the number of instances that have been detected, we would
use the following code:
# The following code is for illustration purpose only
pred[0]['masks'].shape
# torch.Size([100, 1, 536, 559])
The preceding code fetches a maximum of 100 mask instances
(where the instances correspond to a non-background class) for an
image (along with the dimensions corresponding to the image). For
these 100 instances, it would also return the corresponding class

--- Strana 487 ---
label, bounding box, and the 100 corresponding confidence values of
the class.
9. Train the model over increasing epochs:
num_epochs = 5
trn_history = []
for epoch in range(num_epochs):
    # train for one epoch, printing every 10 iterations
    res = train_one_epoch(model, optimizer, data_loader, \
                          device, epoch, print_freq=10)
    trn_history.append(res)
    # update the learning rate
    lr_scheduler.step()
    # evaluate on the test dataset
    res = evaluate(model, data_loader_test, device=device)
By doing this, we can now overlay our masks over people in an
image. We can log our training loss variation over increasing epochs
as follows:
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
plt.title('Training Loss')
losses =[np.mean(list(trn_history[i].meters['loss'].deque)) \
            for i in range(len(trn_history))]
plt.plot(losses)
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 488 ---
10. Predict on a test image:
model.eval()
im = dataset_test[0][0]
show(im)
with torch.no_grad():
    prediction = model([im.to(device)])
    for i in range(len(prediction[0]['masks'])):
        plt.imshow(Image.fromarray(prediction[0]['masks']\
                      [i, 0].mul(255).byte().cpu().numpy()))
        plt.title('Class: '+str(prediction[0]['labels']\
                   [i].cpu().numpy())+' Score:'+str(\
                  prediction[0]['scores'][i].cpu().numpy()))
        plt.show()
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 489 ---
From the preceding image, we can see that we can successfully
identify the four people in the image. Furthermore, the model
predicts multiple other segments in the image (which we have not
shown in the preceding output), though this is with low confidence.
Now that the model can detect instances well, let's run predictions on
a custom image that is not present within the provided dataset.
11. Run predictions on a new image of your own:
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/e92sui3a4ktvb4j/Hema18.JPG
img = Image.open('Hema18.JPG').convert("RGB")
from torchvision import transforms
pil_to_tensor = transforms.ToTensor()(img).unsqueeze_(0)
Image.fromarray(pil_to_tensor[0].mul(255)\
                        .permute(1, 2, 0).byte().numpy())
The input image is as follows:

--- Strana 490 ---
Fetch predictions on the input image:
model.eval()
with torch.no_grad():
    prediction = model([pil_to_tensor[0].to(device)])
    for i in range(len(prediction[0]['masks'])):
        plt.imshow(Image.fromarray(prediction[0]['masks']\
                        [i, 0].mul(255).byte().cpu().numpy()))
        plt.title('Class: '+str(prediction[0]\
                              ['labels'][i].cpu().numpy())+'\
        Score:'+str(prediction[0]['scores'][i].cpu().numpy()))
        plt.show()
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 491 ---
Note that, in the preceding image, the trained model did not work as well as
it did on the test images. This could be due to the following reasons:
The people might not have been in such close proximity during
training.
The model might not have been trained on as many images where the
classes of interest occupy the majority of the image.
The images in the dataset that we have trained our model on have a
different data distribution from the image being predicted on.
However, even though duplicate masks have been detected, having lower
class scores in those regions (starting with the third mask) is a good indicator
that there might be duplicates in predictions.
So far, we have learned about segmenting multiple instances of the Person
class. In the next section, we will learn about what we need to tweak in the
code we built in this section to segment multiple instances of multiple
classes of objects in an image.
Predicting multiple instances of multiple classes

--- Strana 492 ---
In the previous section, we learned about segmenting the Person class. In this
section, we will learn about segmenting for person and table instances in one
go by using the same model we built in the previous section. Let's get
started:
Given that the majority of the code remains the same as it was in the previous section,
we will only explain the additional code within this section. While executing code, we
encourage you to go through the predicting_multiple_instances_of_multiple_classes.ipynb
notebook, which can be found in the Chapter09 folder of this book's GitHub repository
1. Fetch images that contain the classes of interest – Person (class ID 4) and
Table (class ID 6):
classes_list = [4,6]
annots = []
for ann in Tqdm(all_annots):
    _ann = read(ann, 1).transpose(2,0,1)
    r,g,b = _ann
    if np.array([num in np.unique(r) for num in \
                classes_list]).sum()==0: continue
    annots.append(ann)
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
_annots = stems(annots)
trn_items, val_items = train_test_split(_annots, \
                                     random_state=2)
In the preceding code, we are fetching the images that contain at least
one of the classes of interest (classes_list).
2. Modify the get_mask method so that it returns both masks, as well as the
classes that correspond to each mask in the MasksDataset class:
    def get_mask(self,path):
        an = read(path, 1).transpose(2,0,1)
        r,g,b = an
        cls = list(set(np.unique(r)).intersection({4,6}))
        masks = []
        labels = []
        for _cls in cls:
            nzs = np.nonzero(r==_cls)
            instances = np.unique(g[nzs])
            for ix,_id in enumerate(instances):
                masks.append(g==_id)
                labels.append(classes_list.index(_cls)+1)
        return np.array(masks), np.array(labels)
In the preceding code, we are fetching the classes of interest that
exist within the image and are storing them in cls. Next, we are
looping through each identified class (cls) and storing the locations

--- Strana 493 ---
where the Red channel values correspond to class (cls) in nzs. Next,
we are fetching the instance IDs (instances) in those locations.
Furthermore, we are appending instances to masks and the classes
corresponding to instances in labels before returning the NumPy
arrays for masks and labels.
3. Modify the labels object in the __getitem__ method so that it contains
labels that have been obtained from the get_mask method instead of
filling it with torch.ones. The bold part of the following code is where
this change was implemented on the __getitem__ method in the previous
section:
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        _id = self.items[ix]
        img_path = f'images/training/{_id}.jpg'
        mask_path = f'annotations_instance/training/{_id}.png'
        masks, labels = self.get_mask(mask_path)
        #print(labels)
        obj_ids = np.arange(1, len(masks)+1)
        img = Image.open(img_path).convert("RGB")
        num_objs = len(obj_ids)
        boxes = []
        for i in range(num_objs):
            obj_pixels = np.where(masks[i])
            xmin = np.min(obj_pixels[1])
            xmax = np.max(obj_pixels[1])
            ymin = np.min(obj_pixels[0])
            ymax = np.max(obj_pixels[0])
            if (((xmax-xmin)<=10) | (ymax-ymin)<=10):
                xmax = xmin+10
                ymax = ymin+10
            boxes.append([xmin, ymin, xmax, ymax])
        boxes = torch.as_tensor(boxes, dtype=torch.float32)
        labels = torch.as_tensor(labels, dtype=torch.int64)
        masks = torch.as_tensor(masks, dtype=torch.uint8)
        area = (boxes[:, 3] - boxes[:, 1]) * 
                    (boxes[:, 2] - boxes[:, 0])
        iscrowd = torch.zeros((num_objs,), dtype=torch.int64)
        image_id = torch.tensor([ix])
        target = {}
        target["boxes"] = boxes
        target["labels"] = labels
        target["masks"] = masks
        target["image_id"] = image_id
        target["area"] = area
        target["iscrowd"] = iscrowd
        if self.transforms is not None:
            img, target = self.transforms(img, target)
        return img, target
    def __len__(self):
        return self.N
    def choose(self):
        return self[randint(len(self))]

--- Strana 494 ---
4. Specify that you have three classes instead of two while defining model:
num_classes = 3
model=get_model_instance_segmentation(num_classes).to(device)
Upon training the model, as we did in the previous section, we'll see
that the variation of training loss over increasing epochs is as
follows:
Furthermore, the predicted segments for a sample image that contains a
person and a table are as follows:
From the preceding image, we can see that we are able to predict both
classes using the same model. As an exercise, we encourage you to increase
the number of classes and the number of epochs and see what results you
get.

--- Strana 495 ---
Summary
In this chapter, we learned how to leverage U-Net and Mask R-CNN to
perform segmentation on top of images. We understood how the U-Net
architecture can perform downscaling and upscaling on images using
convolutions to retain the structure of the image, while still being able to
predict masks around objects within an image. We then cemented our
understanding of this using the road scene detection exercise, where we
segmented the image into multiple classes. Next, we learned about RoI
Align, which helps ensure that the issues with RoI pooling surrounding
image quantization are addressed. After that, we learned about how Mask R-
CNN works so that we could train models to predict instances of people in
images, as well as instances of people and tables in an image.
Now that we have a good understanding of various object detection
techniques and image segmentation techniques, in the next chapter, we will
learn about applications that leverage the techniques we have learned about
so far so that we can expand the number of classes that we will predict. In
addition, we will also learn about the Detectron2 framework, which reduces
code complexity while we're building Faster R-CNN and Mask R-CNN
models.
Questions
1. How does upscaling help in the U-Net architecture?
2. Why do we need to have a fully convolutional network in U-Net?
3. How does RoI Align improve upon RoI pooling in Mask-RCNN?
4. What is the major difference between U-Net and Mask-RCNN for
segmentation?
5. What is instance segmentation?

--- Strana 496 ---
Applications of Object Detection and
Segmentation
In previous chapters, we learned about various object detection techniques,
such as the R-CNN family of algorithms, YOLO, SSD, and the U-Net and
Mask R-CNN image segmentation algorithms. In this chapter, we will take
our learning a step further – we will work on more realistic scenarios and
learn about frameworks/architectures that are more optimized to solve
detection and segmentation problems. We will start by leveraging the
Detectron2 framework to train and detect custom objects present in an
image. We will also predict the pose of humans present in an image using a
pre-trained model. Furthermore, we will learn how to count the number of
people in a crowd in an image and then learn about leveraging segmentation
techniques to perform image colorization. Finally, we will learn about a
modified version of YOLO to predict 3D bounding boxes around objects by
using point clouds obtained from a LIDAR sensor.
By the end of this chapter, you will have learned about the following:
Multi-object instance segmentation
Human pose detection
Crowd counting
Image colorization
3D object detection with point clouds
Multi-object instance segmentation
In previous chapters, we learned about various object detection algorithms.
In this section, we will learn about the Detectron2 platform (https://ai.faceboo
k.com/blog/-detectron2-a-pytorch-based-modular-object-detection-library-/) before we
implement it using the Google Open Images dataset. Detectron2 is a
platform built by the Facebook team. Detectron2 includes high-quality
implementations of state-of-the-art object detection algorithms,

--- Strana 497 ---
including DensePose of the Mask R-CNN model family. The original
Detectron framework was written in Caffe2, while the Detectron2
framework is written using PyTorch.
Detectron2 supports a range of tasks related to object detection. Like the
original Detectron, it supports object detection with boxes and instance
segmentation masks, as well as human pose prediction. Beyond that,
Detectron2 adds support for semantic segmentation and panoptic
segmentation (a task that combines both semantic and instance
segmentation). By leveraging Detectron2, we are able to build object
detection, segmentation, and pose estimation in a few lines of code.
In this section, we will learn about the following:
1. Fetching data from the open-images repository
2. Converting the data into COCO format that Detectron2 accepts
3. Training the model for instance segmentation
4. Making inferences on new images
Let's go through each of these in the following sections.
Fetching and preparing data
We will be working on the images that are available in the Open Images
dataset (which contains millions of images along with their annotations)
provided by Google at https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/web/index.html.
In this part of the code, we will learn about fetching only the required
images and not the entire dataset. Note that this step is required, as the
dataset size prohibits a typical user who might not have extensive resources
from building a model:
The following code is available as Multi_object_segmentation.ipynb in the Chapter10 folder of
this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code contains URLs to
download data from and is moderately lengthy. We strongly recommend you to execute
the notebook in GitHub to reproduce results while you understand the steps to perform
and explanation of various code components from text.

--- Strana 498 ---
1. Install the required packages:
!pip install -qU openimages torch_snippets
2. Download the required annotations files:
from torch_snippets import *
!wget -O train-annotations-object-segmentation.csv -q 
https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/v5/train-annotations-object-
segmentation.csv
!wget -O classes.csv -q \
 https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openimages/dataset/master/dict.csv 
3. Specify the classes that we want our model to predict (you can visit the
Open Images website to see the list of all classes):
required_classes = 'person,dog,bird,car,elephant,football,\
jug,laptop,Mushroom,Pizza,Rocket,Shirt,Traffic sign,\
Watermelon,Zebra'
required_classes = [c.lower() for c in \
                        required_classes.lower().split(',')]
classes = pd.read_csv('classes.csv', header=None)
classes.columns = ['class','class_name']
classes = classes[classes['class_name'].map(lambda x: x \
                                        in required_classes)]
4. Fetch the image IDs and masks corresponding to required_classes:
from torch_snippets import *
df = pd.read_csv('train-annotations-object-segmentation.csv')
data = pd.merge(df, classes, left_on='LabelName', 
                right_on='class')
subset_data = data.groupby('class_name').agg( \
                        {'ImageID': lambda x: list(x)[:500]})
subset_data = flatten(subset_data.ImageID.tolist())
subset_data = data[data['ImageID'].map(lambda x: x \
                                       in subset_data)]
subset_masks = subset_data['MaskPath'].tolist()
Given the vast amount of data, we are only fetching 500 images per
class in subset_data. It is up to you whether you fetch a smaller or
larger set of files per class and the list of unique classes
(required_classes).
So far, we only have the ImageId and MaskPath values corresponding to
an image. In the next steps, we will go ahead and download the
actual images and masks from open-images.

--- Strana 499 ---
5. Now that we have the subset of masks data to download, let's start the
download. Open Images has 16 ZIP files for training masks. Each ZIP
file will have only a few masks from subset_masks, so we will delete the
rest after moving the required masks into a separate folder. This
download -> move -> delete action will keep the memory footprint
relatively small. We will have to run this step once for each of the 16
files:
!mkdir -p masks
for c in Tqdm('0123456789abcdef'):
    !wget -q \
     https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/v5/train-masks/train-masks-
{c}.zip
    !unzip -q train-masks-{c}.zip -d tmp_masks
    !rm train-masks-{c}.zip
    tmp_masks = Glob('tmp_masks', silent=True)
    items = [(m,fname(m)) for m in tmp_masks]
    items = [(i,j) for (i,j) in items if j in subset_masks]
    for i,j in items:
        os.rename(i, f'masks/{j}')
    !rm -rf tmp_masks
6. Download the images corresponding to ImageId:
masks = Glob('masks')
masks = [fname(mask) for mask in masks]
subset_data = subset_data[subset_data['MaskPath'].map(lambda \
                                              x: x in masks)]
subset_imageIds = subset_data['ImageID'].tolist()
from openimages.download import _download_images_by_id
!mkdir images
_download_images_by_id(subset_imageIds, 'train', './images/')
7. Zip all the images, masks, and ground truths and save them – just in
case your session crashes, it is helpful to save and retrieve the file for
later training. Once the ZIP file is created, ensure you save the file in
your drive or download it. The file size ends up being around 2.5 GB:
import zipfile
files = Glob('images') + Glob('masks') + \
['train-annotations-object-segmentation.csv', 'classes.csv']
with zipfile.ZipFile('data.zip','w') as zipme:
    for file in Tqdm(files):
        zipme.write(file, compress_type=zipfile.ZIP_DEFLATED)
Finally, move the data into a single directory:

--- Strana 500 ---
!mkdir -p train/
!mv images train/myData2020
!mv masks train/annotations
Given that there are so many moving components in object detection
code, as a way of standardization, Detectron accepts a rigid data
format for training. While it is possible to write a dataset definition
and feed it to Detectron, it is easier (and more profitable) to save the
entire training data in COCO format. This way, you can leverage
other training algorithms, such as detectron transformers (DETR),
with no change to the data whatsoever. First, we will start by defining
the categories of classes.
8. Define the required categories in COCO format:
!pip install \
 git+git://github.com/waspinator/pycococreator.git@0.2.0
import datetime
INFO = {
    "description": "MyData2020",
    "url": "None",
    "version": "1.0",
    "year": 2020,
    "contributor": "sizhky",
    "date_created": datetime.datetime.utcnow().isoformat(' ')
}
LICENSES = [
    {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "MIT"
    }
]
CATEGORIES = [{'id': id+1, 'name': name.replace('/',''), \
               'supercategory': 'none'} \
              for id,(_,(name, clss_name)) in \
              enumerate(classes.iterrows())]
In the preceding code, in the definition of CATEGORIES, we are creating a
new key called supercategory. To understand supercategory, let's go
through an example: the Man and Woman classes are categories belonging
to the Person supercategory. In our case, given that we are not
interested in supercategories, we will specify it as none.
Import the relevant packages and create an empty dictionary with
the keys needed to save the COCO JSON file:

--- Strana 501 ---
!pip install pycocotools
from pycococreatortools import pycococreatortools
from os import listdir
from os.path import isfile, join
from PIL import Image
coco_output = {
    "info": INFO,
    "licenses": LICENSES,
    "categories": CATEGORIES,
    "images": [],
    "annotations": []
}
Set a few variables in place that contain the information on the
image locations and annotation file locations:
ROOT_DIR = "train"
IMAGE_DIR, ANNOTATION_DIR = 'train/myData2020/', \
                            'train/annotations/'
image_files = [f for f in listdir(IMAGE_DIR) if \
               isfile(join(IMAGE_DIR, f))]
annotation_files = [f for f in listdir(ANNOTATION_DIR) if \
                    isfile(join(ANNOTATION_DIR, f))]
Loop through each image filename and populate the images key in
the coco_output dictionary:
image_id = 1
# go through each image
for image_filename in Tqdm(image_files):
    image = Image.open(IMAGE_DIR + '/' + image_filename)
    image_info = pycococreatortools\
                    .create_image_info(image_id, \
                os.path.basename(image_filename), image.size)
    coco_output["images"].append(image_info)
    image_id = image_id + 1
9. Loop through each segmentation annotation and populate the annotations
key in the coco_output dictionary:
segmentation_id = 1
for annotation_filename in Tqdm(annotation_files):
    image_id = [f for f in coco_output['images'] if \
                stem(f['file_name']) == \
                annotation_filename.split('_')[0]][0]['id']
    class_id = [x['id'] for x in CATEGORIES \
                if x['name'] in annotation_filename][0]
    category_info = {'id': class_id, \
                    'is_crowd': 'crowd' in image_filename}
    binary_mask = np.asarray(Image.open(f'{ANNOTATION_DIR}/\
{annotation_filename}').convert('1')).astype(np.uint8)
 
    annotation_info = pycococreatortools\
                    .create_annotation_info( \

--- Strana 502 ---
                    segmentation_id, image_id, category_info, 
                    binary_mask, image.size, tolerance=2)
    if annotation_info is not None:
        coco_output["annotations"].append(annotation_info)
        segmentation_id = segmentation_id + 1
10. Save coco_output in a JSON file:
coco_output['categories'] = [{'id': id+1, 'name':clss_name, \
                              'supercategory': 'none'} for \
                             id,(_,(name, clss_name)) in \
                             enumerate(classes.iterrows())]
import json
with open('images.json', 'w') as output_json_file:
    json.dump(coco_output, output_json_file)
With this, we have our files in COCO format, which can be easily used to
train our model using the Detectron2 framework.
Training the model for instance segmentation
Training with Detectron2 can be done in a few steps:
1. Install the required Detectron2 packages. You should check your
CUDA and PyTorch version before installing the right package. Colab
contains PyTorch 1.7 and CUDA 10.1, as of the time of writing this
book, so we will use the corresponding file:
!pip install detectron2 -f 
https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/detectron2/wheels/cu101/torch1.7/index.html
!pip install pyyaml==5.1 pycocotools>=2.0.1
Restart Colab before proceeding to the next step.
2. Import the relevant detectron2 packages:
from detectron2 import model_zoo
from detectron2.engine import DefaultPredictor
from detectron2.config import get_cfg
from detectron2.utils.visualizer import Visualizer
from detectron2.data import MetadataCatalog, DatasetCatalog
from detectron2.engine import DefaultTrainer
Given that we have restarted Colab, let's re-fetch the required
classes:

--- Strana 503 ---
from torch_snippets import *
required_classes= 'person,dog,bird,car,elephant,football,jug,\
laptop,Mushroom,Pizza,Rocket,Shirt,Traffic sign,\
Watermelon,Zebra'
required_classes = [c.lower() for c in \
                    required_classes.lower().split(',')]
classes = pd.read_csv('classes.csv', header=None)
classes.columns = ['class','class_name']
classes = classes[classes['class_name'].map(lambda \
                                x: x in required_classes)]
3. Register the created datasets using register_coco_instances:
from detectron2.data.datasets import register_coco_instances
register_coco_instances("dataset_train", {}, \
                        "images.json", "train/myData2020")
4. Define all the parameters in the cfg configuration file.
Configuration (cfg) is a special Detectron object that holds all the
relevant information for training a model:
cfg = get_cfg()
cfg.merge_from_file(model_zoo.get_config_file("COCO-\ 
InstanceSegmentation/mask_rcnn_R_50_FPN_3x.yaml"))
cfg.DATASETS.TRAIN = ("dataset_train",)
cfg.DATASETS.TEST = ()
cfg.DATALOADER.NUM_WORKERS = 2
cfg.MODEL.WEIGHTS = model_zoo.get_checkpoint_url("COCO-\ 
InstanceSegmentation/mask_rcnn_R_50_FPN_3x.yaml") # pretrained 
# weights
cfg.SOLVER.IMS_PER_BATCH = 2
cfg.SOLVER.BASE_LR = 0.00025 # pick a good LR
cfg.SOLVER.MAX_ITER = 5000 # instead of epochs, we train on 
# 5000 batches
cfg.MODEL.ROI_HEADS.BATCH_SIZE_PER_IMAGE = 512
cfg.MODEL.ROI_HEADS.NUM_CLASSES = len(classes) 
As you can see in the preceding code, you can to set up all the major
hyperparameters needed for training the model. merge_from_file is
importing all the core parameters from a pre-existing configuration
file that was used for pre-training mask_rccnn with FPN as the backbone.
This will also contain additional information on the pre-training
experiment, such as the optimizer and loss functions. The
hyperparameters that have been set, for our purpose, in cfg are self-
explanatory.
5. Train the model:

--- Strana 504 ---
os.makedirs(cfg.OUTPUT_DIR, exist_ok=True)
trainer = DefaultTrainer(cfg) 
trainer.resume_or_load(resume=False)
trainer.train()
With the preceding lines of code, we can train a model to predict
classes, bounding boxes, and also the segmentation of objects
belonging to the defined classes within our custom dataset.
Save the model in a folder:
!cp output/model_final.pth output/trained_model.pth
By this point, we have trained our model. In the next section, we will make
inferences on a new image.
Making inferences on a new image
To perform inference on a new image, we load the path, set the probability
threshold, and pass it through the DefaultPredictor method, as follows:
1. Load the weights with the trained model. Use the same cfg and load the
model weights as shown in the following code:
cfg.MODEL.WEIGHTS = os.path.join(cfg.OUTPUT_DIR, \
                                 "trained_model.pth")
2. Set the threshold for the probability of the object belonging to a certain
class:
cfg.MODEL.ROI_HEADS.SCORE_THRESH_TEST = 0.25
3. Define the predictor method:
predictor = DefaultPredictor(cfg)
4. Perform segmentation on the image of interest and visualize it:
In the following code, we are randomly plotting 30 training images
(note that we haven't created validation data; we have left this as an
exercise for you), but you can also load your own image path in place
of choose(files):

--- Strana 505 ---
from detectron2.utils.visualizer import ColorMode
files = Glob('train/myData2020')
for _ in range(30):
    im = cv2.imread(choose(files))
    outputs = predictor(im)
    v = Visualizer(im[:, :, ::-1], scale=0.5, \
                    metadata=MetadataCatalog.get(\
                              "dataset_train"), \
                    instance_mode=ColorMode.IMAGE_BW 
# remove the colors of unsegmented pixels. 
# This option is only available for segmentation models
    )
    out = v.draw_instance_predictions(\
                         outputs["instances"].to("cpu"))
    show(out.get_image())
Visualizer is Detectron2's way of plotting object instances. Given that
the predictions (present in the outputs variable) are a mere dictionary
of tensors, Visualizer converts them into pixel information and draws
them on an image.
Let's see what each input means:
im: The image we want to visualize.
scale: The size of the image when plotted. Here, we are asking it to
shrink the image down to 50%.
metadata: We need class-level information of the dataset, mainly the
index-to-class mapping so that when we send the raw tensors as
input to be plotted, the class will decode them into actual human-
readable classes.
instance_mode: We are asking the model to only highlight the
segmented pixels.
Finally, once the class is created (in our example, it is v), we can ask
it to draw instance predictions coming from the model and show the
image.
The preceding code gives the following output:

--- Strana 506 ---
From the preceding output, you can see that we are able to identify the pixels
corresponding to the elephants fairly accurately.
Now that we have learned about leveraging Detectron2 to identify the pixels
corresponding to classes within an image, in the next section, we will learn
about leveraging Detectron2 to perform pose detection of humans present in
an image.
Human pose detection

--- Strana 507 ---
In the previous section, we learned about detecting multiple objects and
segmenting them. In this section, we will learn about detecting multiple
people in an image, as well as detecting the keypoints of various body parts
of the people present in the image using Detectron2. Detecting keypoints
comes in handy in multiple use cases. such as in sports analytics and
security.
For this exercise, we will be leveraging the pre-trained keypoint model that
is available in the configuration file:
The following code is available as Human_pose_detection.ipynb in the Chapter10 folder of the
book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code contains URLs to
download data from. We strongly recommend you to execute the notebook in GitHub to
reproduce results while you understand the steps to perform and explanation of various
code components from text.
1. Install all the requirements as shown in the previous section:
!pip install detectron2 -f \
  
https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/detectron2/wheels/cu101/torch1.7/index.html
!pip install torch_snippets
!pip install pyyaml==5.1 pycocotools>=2.0.1
from torch_snippets import *
import detectron2
from detectron2.utils.logger import setup_logger
setup_logger()
from detectron2 import model_zoo
from detectron2.engine import DefaultPredictor
from detectron2.config import get_cfg
from detectron2.utils.visualizer import Visualizer
from detectron2.data import MetadataCatalog, DatasetCatalog
2. Fetch the configuration file and load the pre-trained keypoint detection
model present in Detectron2:
cfg = get_cfg() # get a fresh new config
cfg.merge_from_file(model_zoo.get_config_file("COCO-\ 
Keypoints/keypoint_rcnn_R_50_FPN_3x.yaml"))
3. Specify the configuration parameters:
cfg.MODEL.ROI_HEADS.SCORE_THRESH_TEST = 0.5 # set threshold 
# for this model
cfg.MODEL.WEIGHTS = model_zoo.get_checkpoint_url("COCO-\ 
Keypoints/keypoint_rcnn_R_50_FPN_3x.yaml")
predictor = DefaultPredictor(cfg)

--- Strana 508 ---
4. Load the image that we want to predict:
from torch_snippets import read, resize
!wget -q https://i.imgur.com/ldzGSHk.jpg -O image.png
im = read('image.png',1)
im = resize(im, 0.5) # resize image to half its dimensions
5. Predict on the image and plot the keypoints:
outputs = predictor(im)
v = Visualizer(im[:,:,::-1], \
               MetadataCatalog.get(cfg.DATASETS.TRAIN[0]), \
               scale=1.2)
out = v.draw_instance_predictions(\
                outputs["instances"].to("cpu"))
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
plt.imshow(out.get_image())
The preceding code gives an output as follows:
From the preceding output, we can see that the model is able to identify the
various keypoints corresponding to the people in the image accurately.
In this section, we have learned how to perform keypoint detection using the
Detectron2 platform. In the next section, we will learn about implementing a
modified VGG architecture from scratch to estimate the number of people
present in an image.

--- Strana 509 ---
Crowd counting
Imagine a scenario where you are given a picture of a crowd and are asked
to estimate the number of people present in the image. A crowd counting
model comes in handy in such a scenario. Before we go ahead and build a
model to perform crowd counting, let's understand the data available and the
model architecture first. 
In order to train a model that predicts the number of people in an image, we
will have to load the images first. The images should constitute the location
of the center of the heads of all the people present in the image. A sample of
the input image and the location of the center of the heads of the respective
people in the image is as follows (source: ShanghaiTech dataset (https://githu
b.com/desenzhou/ShanghaiTechDataset)):
In the preceding example, the image representing ground truth (the image on
the right – the center of the heads of the people present in the image) is
extremely sparse. There are exactly N white pixels, where N is the number of
people in the image. Let's zoom in to the top-left corner of the image and see
the same map again:

--- Strana 510 ---
In the next step, we transform the ground truth sparse image into a density
map that represents the number of people in that region of the image:
The final input-output pair of the same crop would look like so:

--- Strana 511 ---
The same for the entire image would look like so:
Note that, in the preceding image, when two people are close to each other,
the pixel intensity is high. However, when a person is far away from the rest,
the pixel density corresponding to the person is more evenly spread out,
resulting in a lower pixel intensity corresponding to the person who is far
away from the rest. Essentially, the heatmap is generated in such a way that
the sum of the pixel values is equal to the number of people present in the
image.

--- Strana 512 ---
Now that we are in a position to accept an input image and the location of
the center of the heads of the people in the image (which is processed to
fetch the ground truth output heatmap), we will leverage the architecture
detailed in the paper titled CSRNet: Dilated Convolutional Neural Networks
for Understanding the Highly Congested Scenes to predict the number of
people present in an image.
The model architecture (https://arxiv.org/pdf/1802.10062.pdf) is as follows:

--- Strana 513 ---
In the preceding structure of the model architecture, we are passing the
image through four additional layers of convolutions after first passing it
through the standard VGG-16 backbone. This output is passed through one

--- Strana 514 ---
of the four configurations and finally through a 1 x 1 x 1 convolution layer.
We will be using the A configuration as it is the smallest.
Next, we perform Mean Squared Error (MSE) loss minimization on the
output image to arrive at the optimal weight values while keeping track of
the actual crowd count using MAE.
One additional detail of the architecture is that the authors used dilated
convolution instead of normal convolution.
A typical dilated convolution looks as follows (image source: https://arxiv.or
g/pdf/1802.10062.pdf):
In the preceding, the diagram on the left represents a typical kernel that we
have been working on so far. The second and third diagrams represent the
dilated kernels, which have a gap between individual pixels. This way, the
kernel has a larger receptive field. A large receptive field can come in handy
as we need to understand the number of people near to a given person in
order to estimate the pixel density corresponding to the person. We are using
a dilated kernel (of nine parameters) instead of a normal kernel (which will
have 49 parameters to be equivalent to a dilation rate of three kernels) to
capture more information with fewer parameters.
With an understanding of how the model is to be architected in place, let's go
ahead and code up the model to perform crowd counting in the following
section. (For those of you looking to understand the working details, we
suggest you go through the paper here: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1802.10062.pdf. The
model we will be training in the following section is inspired by this paper.) 

--- Strana 515 ---
Coding up crowd counting
The strategy that we'll adopt to perform crowd counting is as follows:
1. Import the relevant packages and dataset.
2. The dataset that we will be working on – the ShanghaiTech dataset –
already has the center of faces converted into a distribution based on
Gaussian filter density, so we need not perform it again. Map the input
image and the output Gaussian density map using a network.
3. Define a function to perform dilated convolution.
4. Define the network model and train on batches of data to minimize the
MSE.
Let's go ahead and code up our strategy as follows:
The following code is available as crowd_counting.ipynb in the Chapter 10 folder of this
book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code contains URLs to
download data from and is moderately lengthy. We strongly recommend you to execute
the notebook in GitHub to reproduce results while you understand the steps to perform
and explanation of various code components from text.
1. Import the packages and download the dataset:
%%time
import os
if not os.path.exists('CSRNet-pytorch/'):
    !pip install -U scipy torch_snippets torch_summary
    !git clone https://github.com/sizhky/CSRNet-pytorch.git
    from google.colab import files
    files.upload() # upload kaggle.json
    !mkdir -p ~/.kaggle
    !mv kaggle.json ~/.kaggle/
    !ls ~/.kaggle
    !chmod 600 /root/.kaggle/kaggle.json
    print('downloading data...')
    !kaggle datasets download -d \
        tthien/shanghaitech-with-people-density-map/
    print('unzipping data...')
    !unzip -qq shanghaitech-with-people-density-map.zip
%cd CSRNet-pytorch
!ln -s ../shanghaitech_with_people_density_map
from torch_snippets import *
import h5py
from scipy import io

--- Strana 516 ---
Provide the location of the images (image_folder), the ground truth
(gt_folder), and the heatmap folders (heatmap_folder):
part_A = Glob('shanghaitech_with_people_density_map/\
ShanghaiTech/part_A/train_data/');
image_folder = 'shanghaitech_with_people_density_map/\
ShanghaiTech/part_A/train_data/images/'
heatmap_folder = 'shanghaitech_with_people_density_map/\
ShanghaiTech/part_A/train_data/ground-truth-h5/'
gt_folder = 'shanghaitech_with_people_density_map/\
ShanghaiTech/part_A/train_data/ground-truth/'
2. Define the training and validation datasets and dataloaders:
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
tfm = T.Compose([
    T.ToTensor()
])
class Crowds(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, stems):
        self.stems = stems
    def __len__(self):
        return len(self.stems)
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        _stem = self.stems[ix]
        image_path = f'{image_folder}/{_stem}.jpg'
        heatmap_path = f'{heatmap_folder}/{_stem}.h5'
        gt_path = f'{gt_folder}/GT_{_stem}.mat'
        pts = io.loadmat(gt_path)
        pts = len(pts['image_info'][0,0][0,0][0])
        image = read(image_path, 1)
        with h5py.File(heatmap_path, 'r') as hf:
            gt = hf['density'][:]
        gt = resize(gt, 1/8)*64
        return image.copy(), gt.copy(), pts
    def collate_fn(self, batch):
        ims, gts, pts = list(zip(*batch))
        ims = torch.cat([tfm(im)[None] for im in \
                            ims]).to(device)
        gts = torch.cat([tfm(gt)[None] for gt in \
                            gts]).to(device)
        return ims, gts, torch.tensor(pts).to(device)
    def choose(self):
        return self[randint(len(self))]
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
trn_stems, val_stems = train_test_split(\
            stems(Glob(image_folder)), random_state=10)
trn_ds = Crowds(trn_stems)
val_ds = Crowds(val_stems)

--- Strana 517 ---
trn_dl = DataLoader(trn_ds, batch_size=1, shuffle=True, \
                    collate_fn=trn_ds.collate_fn)
val_dl = DataLoader(val_ds, batch_size=1, shuffle=True, \
                    collate_fn=val_ds.collate_fn)
Note that the only addition to the typical dataset class that we have
written so far is the lines of code in bold in the preceding code. We
are resizing the ground truth as the output of our network would be
shrunk to 1/8th of the original size, and hence we are multiplying the
map by 64 so that the sum of the image pixels will be scaled back to
the original crowd count.
3. Define the network architecture:
Define the function that enables dilated convolutions (make_layers):
import torch.nn as nn
import torch
from torchvision import models
from utils import save_net,load_net
def make_layers(cfg, in_channels = 3, batch_norm=False, 
                dilation = False):
    if dilation:
        d_rate = 2
    else:
        d_rate = 1
    layers = []
    for v in cfg:
        if v == 'M':
            layers += [nn.MaxPool2d(kernel_size=2, stride=2)]
        else:
            conv2d = nn.Conv2d(in_channels,v,kernel_size=3,\
                               padding=d_rate, dilation=d_rate)
            if batch_norm:
                layers += [conv2d, nn.BatchNorm2d(v), \
                           nn.ReLU(inplace=True)]
            else:
                layers += [conv2d, nn.ReLU(inplace=True)]
            in_channels = v
    return nn.Sequential(*layers)
Define the network architecture – CSRNet:
class CSRNet(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, load_weights=False):
        super(CSRNet, self).__init__()
        self.seen = 0
        self.frontend_feat = [64, 64, 'M', 128, 128, 'M',256,
                                256, 256, 'M', 512, 512, 512]
        self.backend_feat = [512, 512, 512, 256, 128, 64]
        self.frontend = make_layers(self.frontend_feat)

--- Strana 518 ---
        self.backend = make_layers(self.backend_feat,
                          in_channels = 512,dilation = True)
        self.output_layer = nn.Conv2d(64, 1, kernel_size=1)
        if not load_weights:
            mod = models.vgg16(pretrained = True)
            self._initialize_weights()
            items = list(self.frontend.state_dict().items())
            _items = list(mod.state_dict().items())
            for i in range(len(self.frontend.state_dict()\
                               .items())):
                items[i][1].data[:] = _items[i][1].data[:]
    def forward(self,x):
        x = self.frontend(x)
        x = self.backend(x)
        x = self.output_layer(x)
        return x
    def _initialize_weights(self):
        for m in self.modules():
            if isinstance(m, nn.Conv2d):
                nn.init.normal_(m.weight, std=0.01)
                if m.bias is not None:
                    nn.init.constant_(m.bias, 0)
            elif isinstance(m, nn.BatchNorm2d):
                nn.init.constant_(m.weight, 1)
                nn.init.constant_(m.bias, 0)
4. Define the functions to train and validate on a batch of data:
def train_batch(model, data, optimizer, criterion):
    model.train()
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    ims, gts, pts = data
    _gts = model(ims)
    loss = criterion(_gts, gts)
    loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    pts_loss = nn.L1Loss()(_gts.sum(), gts.sum())
    return loss.item(), pts_loss.item()
@torch.no_grad()
def validate_batch(model, data, criterion):
    model.eval()
    ims, gts, pts = data
    _gts = model(ims)
    loss = criterion(_gts, gts)
    pts_loss = nn.L1Loss()(_gts.sum(), gts.sum())
    return loss.item(), pts_loss.item()
5. Train the model over increasing epochs:
model = CSRNet().to(device)
criterion = nn.MSELoss()
optimizer = optim.Adam(model.parameters(), lr=1e-6)
n_epochs = 20
log = Report(n_epochs)
for ex in range(n_epochs):
    N = len(trn_dl)
    for bx, data in enumerate(trn_dl):

--- Strana 519 ---
        loss,pts_loss=train_batch(model, data, optimizer, \
                                        criterion)
        log.record(ex+(bx+1)/N, trn_loss=loss, 
                           trn_pts_loss=pts_loss, end='\r')
    N = len(val_dl)
    for bx, data in enumerate(val_dl):
        loss, pts_loss = validate_batch(model, data, \
                                        criterion)
        log.record(ex+(bx+1)/N, val_loss=loss, 
                    val_pts_loss=pts_loss, end='\r')
    log.report_avgs(ex+1)
    if ex == 10: optimizer = optim.Adam(model.parameters(), \
                                        lr=1e-7)
The preceding code results in a variation in the training and
validation loss (here, the loss is the MAE of the crowd count), as
follows:

--- Strana 520 ---
From the preceding plot, we can see that we are off in our predictions
by around 150 people. We can improve the model in the following
two ways:
By using data augmentation and training on crops of the original
image
By using a larger network (we used the A configuration, while B, C,
and D are larger).
6. Make inferences on a new image:
Fetch a test image and normalize it:
from matplotlib import cm as c
from torchvision import datasets, transforms
from PIL import Image
transform=transforms.Compose([
                 transforms.ToTensor(),transforms.Normalize(\
                          mean=[0.485, 0.456, 0.406],\
                          std=[0.229, 0.224, 0.225]),\
                  ])
test_folder = 'shanghaitech_with_people_density_map/\
ShanghaiTech/part_A/test_data/'
imgs = Glob(f'{test_folder}/images')
f = choose(imgs)
print(f)
img = transform(Image.open(f).convert('RGB')).to(device)
Pass the image through the trained model:
output = model(img[None])
print("Predicted Count : ", int(output.detach().cpu()\
                                      .sum().numpy()))
temp = np.asarray(output.detach().cpu()\
                    .reshape(output.detach().cpu()\
                    .shape[2],output.detach()\
                    .cpu().shape[3]))
plt.imshow(temp,cmap = c.jet)
plt.show()
The preceding code results in a heatmap (right image) of the input image
(left image):

--- Strana 521 ---
From the preceding output, we can see that the model predicted the heatmap
reasonably accurately and the prediction count of people is close to the
actual value.
In the next section, we will leverage a U-Net architecture to colorize an
image.
Image colorization
Imagine a scenario where you are given a bunch of black-and-white images
and are asked to turn them into color images. How would you solve this
problem? One way to solve this is by using a pseudo-supervised pipeline
where we take a raw image, convert it into black and white, and treat them
as input-output pairs. We will demonstrate this by leveraging the CIFAR-10
dataset to perform colorization on images.
The strategy that we will adopt as we code up the image colorization
network is as follows:

--- Strana 522 ---
1. Take the original color image in the training dataset and convert it into
grayscale to fetch the input (grayscale) and output (original colored
image) combination.
2. Normalize the input and output.
3. Build a U-Net architecture.
4. Train the model over increasing epochs.
With the preceding strategy in place, let's go ahead and code up the model as
follows:
The following code is available as Image colorization.ipynb in the Chapter 10 folder of this
book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1. Install the required packages and import them:
!pip install torch_snippets
from torch_snippets import *
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
2. Download the dataset and define the training and validation datasets
and dataloaders:
Download the dataset:
from torchvision import datasets
import torch
data_folder = '~/cifar10/cifar/' 
datasets.CIFAR10(data_folder, download=True)
Define the training and validation datasets and dataloaders:
class Colorize(torchvision.datasets.CIFAR10):
    def __init__(self, root, train):
        super().__init__(root, train)
        
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        im, _ = super().__getitem__(ix)
        bw = im.convert('L').convert('RGB')
        bw, im = np.array(bw)/255., np.array(im)/255.
        bw, im = [torch.tensor(i).permute(2,0,1)\
                  .to(device).float() for i in [bw,im]]
        return bw, im
trn_ds = Colorize('~/cifar10/cifar/', train=True)
val_ds = Colorize('~/cifar10/cifar/', train=False)
trn_dl = DataLoader(trn_ds, batch_size=256, shuffle=True)
val_dl = DataLoader(val_ds, batch_size=256, shuffle=False)

--- Strana 523 ---
A sample of the input and output images is as follows:
a,b = trn_ds[0]
subplots([a,b], nc=2)
The preceding code results in the following output:
Note that CIFAR-10 has images that are 32 x 32 in shape.
3. Define the network architecture:
class Identity(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
    def forward(self, x):
        return x
class DownConv(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, ni, no, maxpool=True):
        super().__init__()
        self.model = nn.Sequential(
            nn.MaxPool2d(2) if maxpool else Identity(),
            nn.Conv2d(ni, no, 3, padding=1),
            nn.BatchNorm2d(no),
            nn.LeakyReLU(0.2, inplace=True),
            nn.Conv2d(no, no, 3, padding=1),
            nn.BatchNorm2d(no),
            nn.LeakyReLU(0.2, inplace=True),
        )
    def forward(self, x):
        return self.model(x)
class UpConv(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, ni, no, maxpool=True):
        super().__init__()
        self.convtranspose = nn.ConvTranspose2d(ni, no, \
                                                2, stride=2)
        self.convlayers = nn.Sequential(
            nn.Conv2d(no+no, no, 3, padding=1),

--- Strana 524 ---
            nn.BatchNorm2d(no),
            nn.LeakyReLU(0.2, inplace=True),
            nn.Conv2d(no, no, 3, padding=1),
            nn.BatchNorm2d(no),
            nn.LeakyReLU(0.2, inplace=True),
        )
        
    def forward(self, x, y):
        x = self.convtranspose(x)
        x = torch.cat([x,y], axis=1)
        x = self.convlayers(x)
        return x
class UNet(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
        self.d1 = DownConv( 3, 64, maxpool=False)
        self.d2 = DownConv( 64, 128)
        self.d3 = DownConv( 128, 256)
        self.d4 = DownConv( 256, 512)
        self.d5 = DownConv( 512, 1024)
        self.u5 = UpConv (1024, 512)
        self.u4 = UpConv ( 512, 256)
        self.u3 = UpConv ( 256, 128)
        self.u2 = UpConv ( 128, 64)
        self.u1 = nn.Conv2d(64, 3, kernel_size=1, stride=1)
    def forward(self, x):
        x0 = self.d1( x) # 32
        x1 = self.d2(x0) # 16
        x2 = self.d3(x1) # 8
        x3 = self.d4(x2) # 4
        x4 = self.d5(x3) # 2
        X4 = self.u5(x4, x3)# 4
        X3 = self.u4(X4, x2)# 8
        X2 = self.u3(X3, x1)# 16
        X1 = self.u2(X2, x0)# 32
        X0 = self.u1(X1) # 3
        return X0
4. Define the model, optimizer, and loss function:
def get_model():
    model = UNet().to(device)
    optimizer = optim.Adam(model.parameters(), lr=1e-3)
    loss_fn = nn.MSELoss()
    return model, optimizer, loss_fn
5. Define the functions to train and validate on a batch of data:
def train_batch(model, data, optimizer, criterion):
    model.train()
    x, y = data
    _y = model(x)
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    loss = criterion(_y, y)
    loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    return loss.item()

--- Strana 525 ---
@torch.no_grad()
def validate_batch(model, data, criterion):
    model.eval()
    x, y = data
    _y = model(x)
    loss = criterion(_y, y)
    return loss.item()
6. Train the model over increasing epochs:
model, optimizer, criterion = get_model()
exp_lr_scheduler = optim.lr_scheduler.StepLR(optimizer, \
                                    step_size=10, gamma=0.1)
_val_dl = DataLoader(val_ds, batch_size=1, shuffle=True)
n_epochs = 100
log = Report(n_epochs)
for ex in range(n_epochs):
    N = len(trn_dl)
    for bx, data in enumerate(trn_dl):
        loss = train_batch(model, data, optimizer, criterion)
        log.record(ex+(bx+1)/N, trn_loss=loss, end='\r')
        if (bx+1)%50 == 0:
            for _ in range(5):
                a,b = next(iter(_val_dl))
                _b = model(a)
                subplots([a[0], b[0], _b[0]], nc=3, \
                          figsize=(5,5))
    N = len(val_dl)
    for bx, data in enumerate(val_dl):
        loss = validate_batch(model, data, criterion)
        log.record(ex+(bx+1)/N, val_loss=loss, end='\r')
        
    exp_lr_scheduler.step()
    if (ex+1) % 5 == 0: log.report_avgs(ex+1)
    for _ in range(5):
        a,b = next(iter(_val_dl))
        _b = model(a)
        subplots([a[0], b[0], _b[0]], nc=3, figsize=(5,5))
log.plot_epochs()
The preceding code generates an output as follows:

--- Strana 526 ---
From the preceding output, we can see that the model is able to color the
grayscale image reasonably well.
So far, we have learned about leveraging Detectron2 for segmentation and
keypoint detection, dilated convolutions in crowd counting, and U-Net in
image colorization. In the next section, we will learn about leveraging
YOLO for 3D object detection.
3D object detection with point
clouds
So far, we have learned how to predict a bounding rectangle on 2D images
using algorithms that have the core underlying concept of anchor boxes. We
will now learn how the same concept can be extended to predict 3D
bounding boxes around objects.
In a self-driving car, tasks such as pedestrian/obstacle detection and route
planning cannot happen without knowing the environment. Predicting 3D
object locations along with their orientations becomes an important task. Not
only is the 2D bounding box around obstacles important, but also knowing
the distance from the object, height, width, and orientation of the obstacle
are critical to navigating safely in the 3D world. 
In this section, we will learn how YOLO is used to predict the 3D
orientation and position of cars and pedestrians on a real-world dataset. 

--- Strana 527 ---
The instructions for downloading the data, training, and testing sets are all given in this
GitHub repo: https://github.com/sizhky/Complex-YOLOv4-Pytorch/blob/master/README.md#training-instructions.
Given that there are very few openly available 3D datasets, we have chosen the most-
used dataset for this exercise, which you still need to register for download. We have
provided the instructions for registration in the preceding link as well. 
Theory
One of the well-known sensors for collecting real-time 3D data is
LIDAR (Light Detection and Ranging). It is a laser mounted on a rotating
apparatus that fires beams of lasers hundreds of times every second. Another
sensor receives the reflection of the laser from surrounding objects and
calculates how far the laser has traveled before encountering an obstruction.
Doing this in all directions of the car will result in a 3D point cloud of
distances that is reflective of the environment itself. In the dataset that we
will learn about, we have obtained the 3D point clouds from specific
hardware known as velodyne. Let's understand how input and output are
encoded for 3D object detection. 
Input encoding
Our raw inputs are going to be 3D point clouds presented to us in the form of
.bin files. Each can be loaded as a NumPy array
using np.fromfile(<filepath>) and here's how the data looks for a sample file
(these files are found in the dataset/.../training/velodyne directory after
downloading and moving the raw files as per the GitHub repo instructions):
files = Glob('training/velodyne')
F = choose(files)
pts = np.fromfile(F, dtype=np.float32).reshape(-1, 4)
pts
The preceding code gives the following output:

--- Strana 528 ---
This can be visualized as follows:
# take the points and remove faraway points
x,y,z = np.clip(pts[:,0], 0, 50), 
        np.clip(pts[:,1], -25, 25), 
        np.clip(pts[:,2],-3, 1.27)
fig = go.Figure(data=[go.Scatter3d(\
        x=x, y=y, z=z, mode='markers',
        marker=dict(
            size=2,
            color=z, # set color to a list of desired values
            colorscale='Viridis', # choose a colorscale
            opacity=0.8
        )
    )])
fig.update_layout(margin=dict(l=0, r=0, b=0, t=0))
fig.show()
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 529 ---
We can convert this information into an image of a bird's-eye view by
performing the following steps. 
1. Project the 3D point cloud onto the XY plane (ground) and split it into a
grid with a resolution of 8 cm2 per grid cell.
2. For each cell, compute the following and associate them with the
specified channel:
Red channel: The height of the highest point in the grid
Green channel: The intensity of the highest point in the grid

--- Strana 530 ---
Blue channel: The number of points in the grid divided by 64
(which is a normalizing factor)
For example, the reconstructed top view of the cloud may look like this:
You can clearly see the "shadows" in the image, indicating that there is
an obstacle.
This is how we create an image from the LIDAR point cloud data.
We have taken 3D point clouds as the raw input and obtained the bird's-eye image as the
output. This is the preprocessing step necessary to create the image that is going to be
the input for the YOLO model.
Output encoding
Now that we have the bird's-eye image (of the 3D point cloud) as input to
the model, the model needs to predict the following real-world features:

--- Strana 531 ---
What the object (class) present in the image is 
How far the object is (in meters) from the car on the east-west axis (x)
How far the object is (in meters) from the car on the north-south
axis (y)
What the orientation of the object (yaw) is 
How big the object is (the length and width of the object in meters)
It is possible to predict the bounding box in the pixel coordinate system (of
the bird's-eye image). But it does not have any real-world significance as the
predictions would still be in pixel space (in a bird's-eye view). In this case,
we need to convert these pixel coordinate (of the bird's-eye view) bounding
box predictions into real-world coordinates in meters. To avoid additional
steps during postprocessing, we are directly predicting the real-world values.
Furthermore, in a realistic scenario, the object can be oriented in any
direction. If we only calculate the length and width, it will not be sufficient
to describe the tight bounding box. An example of such a scenario is as
follows: 
To get a tight bounding box for the object, we also need the information on
which direction the obstacle is facing, and hence we also need the
additional yaw parameter. Formally, it is the orientation made by the object
with the north-south axis. 

--- Strana 532 ---
First, the YOLO model uses an anchor grid of 32 x 64 cells (more width than
height) taking into consideration that the car's dashcam (and hence LIDAR)
views are more wide than tall. The model uses two losses for the task. The
first one is the normal YOLO loss (which is responsible for predicting the x,
y, l, and w classes) we learned about in Chapter 8, Advanced Object Detection,
and another loss called the EULER loss, which exclusively predicts the yaw.
Formally, the set of equations to predict the final bounding boxes from the
model's outputs are as follows: 
bx = σ(tx) + cx
by = σ(ty) + cy
bw = pwetw
bl = pletl
bφ = arctan2(tIm, tRe)
Here, bx, by, bw, bl, and bφ are the x and z coordinate values, the width, the
length, and the yaw of the obstacle, respectively.
tx, ty, tw, tl, tIm, and tRe are the six regression values that being getting
predicted from YOLO.
cx and cy are the positions of the center of the grid cell within the 32 x 64
matrix and pw and pl are pre-defined priors chosen by taking the average
widths and lengths of cars and pedestrians. Furthermore, there are five priors
(anchor boxes) in the implementation. 
The height of each object of the same class is assumed as a fixed number.
Refer to the illustration given here, which shows this pictorally (image
source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1803.06199.pdf):

--- Strana 533 ---
The total loss is calculated as follows: 
You already know LossYOLO from the previous chapter (using tx, ty, tw, and
tl as the targets). Also, note the following:
Now that we have understood how the fundamentals of 3D object detection
remain the same as that of 2D object detection (but with more number of
parameters to predict) and the input-output pairs of this task, let's leverage an
existing GitHub repo to train our model.

--- Strana 534 ---
For more details on 3D object detection, refer to the paper Complex-YOLO at https://arxi
v.org/pdf/1803.06199.pdf.
Training the YOLO model for 3D object detection
The coding effort is largely taken away from the user due to the standardized
code. Much like Detectron2, we can train and test the algorithm by ensuring
that the data is in the right format in the right location. Once that is ensured,
we can train and test the code with a minimal number of lines.
We need to clone the Complex-YOLOv4-Pytorch repository first:
$ git clone https://github.com/sizhky/Complex-YOLOv4-Pytorch
Follow the instructions in the README.md file to download and move the
datasets to the right locations.
The instructions for downloading the data, training, and testing sets are all given in this
GitHub repo: https://github.com/sizhky/Complex-YOLOv4-Pytorch/blob/master/README.md#training-instructions.
Given that there are very few openly available 3D datasets, we have chosen the most-
used dataset for this exercise, which you still need to register for download. We also give
the instructions for registration in the preceding link.
Data format
We can use any 3D point cloud data with ground truths for this exercise.
Refer to the README file on the GitHub repo for more instructions on how to
download and move the data. The data needs to be stored in the following
format in the root directory:

--- Strana 535 ---
The three folders that are new to us are velodyne, calib, and label_2:
velodyne contains a list of .bin files that encode 3D point cloud
information for corresponding images present in the image_2 folder.
calib contains calibration files corresponding to each point cloud. The
3D coordinates from the LIDAR point cloud coordinate system can be
projected onto the camera coordinate system – that is, the image – by
using the 3 x 4 projection matrix present in each file in the calib folder.
Essentially, the LIDAR sensor captures the points that are slightly offset
from what the camera is capturing. This offset is due to the fact that
both sensors are mounted a few inches apart from each other. Knowing
the right offsets will help us to rightfully project bounding boxes and
3D points on to the image from the camera.
label_2 contains the ground truths (one ground truth per line) for each
image in the form of 15 values that are explained in the following table:

--- Strana 536 ---
Note that our target columns are type (class), w, l, x, z, and ry (yaw) among
the ones seen here. We will ignore the rest of the values for this task.
Data inspection
We can verify that the data is downloaded properly by running the
following:
$ cd Complex-YOLOv4-Pytorch/src/data_process
$ python kitti_dataloader.py --output-width 600

--- Strana 537 ---
The preceding code shows multiple images, one image at a time. The
following is one such example (image source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1803.06199.p
df):
Now that we are able to download and view a few images, in the next
section, we will learn about training the model to predict 3D bounding
boxes.
Training

--- Strana 538 ---
The training code is wrapped in a single Python file and can be called as
follows:
$ cd Complex-YOLOv4-Pytorch/src
$ python train.py --gpu_idx 0 --batch_size 2 --num_workers 4 \
                  --num_epochs 5
The default number of epochs is 300, but the results are fairly reasonable
starting the fifth epoch itself. Each epoch takes 30 to 45 minutes on a GTX
1070 GPU. You can use --resume_path to resume training if training cannot be
done in a single stretch. The code saves a new checkpoint every five epochs.
Testing
Just like in the Data inspection section, the trained model can be tested with
the following code:
$ cd Complex-YOLOv4-Pytorch/src
$ python test.py --gpu_idx 0 --pretrained_path 
../checkpoints/complexer_yolo/Model_complexer_yolo_epoch_5.pth --cfgfile 
./config/cfg/complex_yolov4.cfg --show_image 
The main inputs to the code are the checkpoint path and the model
configuration path. After giving them and running the code, the following
output pops up (image source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1803.06199.pdf):

--- Strana 539 ---

--- Strana 540 ---
Because of the simplicity of the model, we can use it in real-time scenarios
with a normal GPU, getting about 15–20 predictions per second. 
Summary
In this chapter, we learned about the various practical aspects of dealing with
object localization and segmentation. Specifically, we learned about how the
Detectron2 platform is leveraged to perform image segmentation and
detection, and keypoint detection. In addition, we also learned about some of
the intricacies involved in working with large datasets when we were
working on fetching images from the Open Images dataset. Next, we worked
on leveraging the VGG and U-Net architectures for crowd counting and
image colorization, respectively. Finally, we understood the theory and
implementation steps behind 3D object detection using point cloud images.
As you can see from all these examples, the underlying basics are the same
as those described in the previous chapters, with modifications only in the
input/output of the networks to accommodate the task at hand.
In the next chapter, we will switch gears and learn about image encoding,
which helps in identifying similar images as well as generating new images.

--- Strana 541 ---
Section 3 - Image Manipulation
In this section, we will explore various techniques to manipulate images,
including autoencoders and various types of GANs. We will leverage these
techniques to improve image quality, to manipulate the style, and also to
generate new images from existing ones.
This section comprises the following chapters:
Chapter 11, Autoencoders and Image Manipulation
Chapter 12, Image Generation Using GANs
Chapter 13, Advanced GANs to Manipulate Images

--- Strana 542 ---
Autoencoders and Image
Manipulation
 In the previous chapters, we have learned about classifying images,
detecting objects in an image, and segmenting the pixels corresponding to
objects in images. In this chapter, we will learn about representing an image
in a lower dimension using autoencoders and leveraging the lower-
dimensional representation of an image to generate new images by using
variational autoencoders. Learning to represent images in a lower number of
dimensions helps us manipulate (modify) the images to a considerable
degree. We will learn about leveraging lower-dimensional representations to
generate new images as well as novel images that are based on the content
and style of two different images. Next, we will also learn about modifying
images in such a way that the image is visually unaltered, however, the class
corresponding to the image is changed from one to another. Finally, we will
learn about generating deep fakes: given a source image of person A, we
generate a target image of person B with a similar facial expression as that of
person A.
Overall, we will go through the following topics in this chapter:
Understanding and implementing autoencoders
Understanding convolutional autoencoders
Understanding variational autoencoders
Performing an adversarial attack on images
Performing neural style transfer
Generating deep fakes
Understanding autoencoders
So far, in the previous chapters, we have learned about classifying images by
training a model based on the input image and its corresponding label. Now
let's imagine a scenario where we need to cluster images based on their

--- Strana 543 ---
similarity and with the constraint of not having their corresponding
labels. Autoencoders come in handy to identify and group similar images.
An autoencoder takes an image as input, stores it in a lower dimension, and
tries to reproduce the same image as output, hence the term auto (which
stands for being able to reproduce the input). However, if we just reproduce
the input in the output, we would not need a network, but a simple
multiplication of the input by 1 would do. The differentiating aspect of an
autoencoder is that it encodes the information present in an image in a lower
dimension and then reproduces the image, hence the term encoder (which
stands for representing the information of an image in a lower
dimension). This way, images that are similar will have similar encoding.
Further, the decoder works towards reconstructing the original image from
the encoded vector.
In order to further understand autoencoders, let's take a look at the
following diagram:
Let's say the input image is a flattened version of the MNIST handwritten
digits and the output image is the same as what is provided as input. The

--- Strana 544 ---
middlemost layer is the layer of encoding called the bottleneck layer. The
operations happening between the input and the bottleneck layer represent
the encoder and the operations between the bottleneck layer and output
represent the decoder.
Through the bottleneck layer, we can represent an image in a much lower dimension.
Furthermore, with the bottleneck layer, we can reconstruct the original image. We
leverage the bottleneck layer to solve the problems of identifying similar images as well
as generating new images, which we will learn how to do in subsequent sections.
The bottleneck layer helps in the following ways:
Images that have similar bottleneck layer values (encoded
representations) are likely to be similar to each other.
By changing the node values of the bottleneck layer, we can change the
output image.
With the preceding understanding, let's do the following:
Implement autoencoders from scratch
Visualize the similarity of images based on bottleneck layer values
In the next section, we will learn about how autoencoders are built and also
will learn about the impact of different units in the bottleneck layer on the
decoder's output.
Implementing vanilla autoencoders
To understand how to build an autoencoder, let's implement one on the
MNIST dataset, which contains images of handwritten digits:
The following code is available as simple_auto_encoder_with_different_latent_size.ipynb in
the chapter11 folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code
is moderately lengthy. We strongly recommend you to execute the notebook in GitHub to
reproduce results while you understand the steps to perform and explanation of various
code components in text.
1. Import the relevant packages and define the device:
!pip install -q torch_snippets
from torch_snippets import *

--- Strana 545 ---
from torchvision.datasets import MNIST
from torchvision import transforms
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
2. Specify the transformation that we want our images to pass through:
img_transform = transforms.Compose([
                    transforms.ToTensor(),
                    transforms.Normalize([0.5], [0.5]),
                    transforms.Lambda(lambda x: x.to(device))
                ])
In the preceding code, we see that we are converting an image into a
tensor, normalizing it, and then passing it to the device.
3. Create the train and validation datasets:
trn_ds = MNIST('/content/', transform=img_transform, \
               train=True, download=True)
val_ds = MNIST('/content/', transform=img_transform, \
               train=False, download=True)
4. Define the dataloaders:
batch_size = 256
trn_dl = DataLoader(trn_ds, batch_size=batch_size, \
                    shuffle=True)
val_dl = DataLoader(val_ds, batch_size=batch_size, \
                    shuffle=False)
5. Define the network architecture. We define the AutoEncoder class
constituting the encoder and decoder in the __init__ method, along with
the dimension of the bottleneck layer, latent_dim, and the forward method,
and visualize the model summary:
Define the AutoEncoder class and the __init__ method containing the
encoder, decoder, and the dimension of the bottleneck layer:
class AutoEncoder(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, latent_dim):
        super().__init__()
        self.latend_dim = latent_dim
        self.encoder = nn.Sequential(
                            nn.Linear(28 * 28, 128), 
                            nn.ReLU(True),
                            nn.Linear(128, 64), 
                            nn.ReLU(True), 
                            nn.Linear(64, latent_dim))
        self.decoder = nn.Sequential(
                            nn.Linear(latent_dim, 64), 

--- Strana 546 ---
                            nn.ReLU(True),
                            nn.Linear(64, 128), 
                            nn.ReLU(True), 
                            nn.Linear(128, 28 * 28), 
                            nn.Tanh())
Define the forward method:
    def forward(self, x):
        x = x.view(len(x), -1)
        x = self.encoder(x)
        x = self.decoder(x)
        x = x.view(len(x), 1, 28, 28)
        return x
Visualize the preceding model:
!pip install torch_summary
from torchsummary import summary
model = AutoEncoder(3).to(device)
summary(model, torch.zeros(2,1,28,28))
This results in the following output:
From the preceding output, we can see that the Linear: 2-5 layer is the
bottleneck layer, where each image is represented as a 3-dimensional
vector. Furthermore, the decoder layer reconstructs the original
image using the three values in the bottleneck layer.

--- Strana 547 ---
6. Define a function to train on a batch of data (train_batch), just like we
did in the previous chapters:
def train_batch(input, model, criterion, optimizer):
    model.train()
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    output = model(input)
    loss = criterion(output, input)
    loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    return loss
7. Define the function to validate on the batch of data (validate_batch):
@torch.no_grad()
def validate_batch(input, model, criterion):
    model.eval()
    output = model(input)
    loss = criterion(output, input)
    return loss
8. Define the model, loss criterion, and optimizer:
model = AutoEncoder(3).to(device)
criterion = nn.MSELoss()
optimizer = torch.optim.AdamW(model.parameters(), \
                              lr=0.001, weight_decay=1e-5)
9. Train the model over increasing epochs:
num_epochs = 5
log = Report(num_epochs)
for epoch in range(num_epochs):
    N = len(trn_dl)
    for ix, (data, _) in enumerate(trn_dl):
        loss = train_batch(data, model, criterion, optimizer)
        log.record(pos=(epoch + (ix+1)/N), \
                   trn_loss=loss, end='\r')
        
    N = len(val_dl)
    for ix, (data, _) in enumerate(val_dl):
        loss = validate_batch(data, model, criterion)
        log.record(pos=(epoch + (ix+1)/N), \
                   val_loss=loss, end='\r')
        
    log.report_avgs(epoch+1)
10. Visualize the training and validation loss over increasing epochs:
log.plot_epochs(log=True)
The preceding snippet returns the following output:

--- Strana 548 ---
11. Validate the model on the val_ds dataset, which was not provided during
training:
for _ in range(3):
    ix = np.random.randint(len(val_ds))
    im, _ = val_ds[ix]
    _im = model(im[None])[0]
    fig, ax = plt.subplots(1, 2, figsize=(3,3))
    show(im[0], ax=ax[0], title='input')
    show(_im[0], ax=ax[1], title='prediction')
    plt.tight_layout()
    plt.show()
The output of the preceding code is as follows:

--- Strana 549 ---
We can see that the network can reproduce input with a very high level of
accuracy even though the bottleneck layer is only three dimensions in size.
However, the images are not as clear as we expect them to be. This is
primarily because of the small number of nodes in the bottleneck layer. In
the following image, we will visualize the reconstructed images after
training networks with different bottleneck layer sizes - 2, 3, 5, 10, and 50:

--- Strana 550 ---
It is clear that as the number of vectors in the bottleneck layer increased, the
clarity of the reconstructed image improved.
In the next section, we will learn about generating more clear images using a
convolutional neural network (CNN) and we will learn about grouping

--- Strana 551 ---
similar images.
Understanding convolutional
autoencoders
In the previous section, we learned about autoencoders and implemented
them in PyTorch. While we have implemented them, one convenience that
we had through the dataset was that each image has only 1 channel (each
image was represented as a black and white image) and the images are
relatively small (28 x 28). Hence the network flattened the input and was
able to train on 784 (28*28) input values to predict 784 output values.
However, in reality, we will encounter images that have 3 channels and are
much bigger than a 28 x 28 image.
In this section, we will learn about implementing a convolutional
autoencoder that is able to work on multi-dimensional input images.
However, for the purpose of comparison with vanilla autoencoders, we will
work on the same MNIST dataset that we worked on in the previous section,
but modify the network in such a way that we now build a convolutional
autoencoder and not a vanilla autoencoder.
A convolutional autoencoder is represented as follows:

--- Strana 552 ---
From the preceding image, we can see that the input image is represented as
a block in the bottleneck layer that is used to reconstruct the image. The
image goes through multiple convolutions to fetch the bottleneck
representation (which is the Bottleneck layer that is obtained by passing
through Encoder) and the bottleneck representation is up-scaled to fetch the
original image (the original image is reconstructed by passing through the
decoder).
Now that we know how a convolutional autoencoder is represented, let's
implement it in the following code:
Given that the majority of the code is similar to the code in the previous section, we have
only provided the additional code for brevity. The following code is available
as conv_auto_encoder.ipynb in Chapter11 folder of this book's GitHub repository. We
encourage you to go through the notebook in GitHub if you want to see the complete
code.
1. Steps 1 to 4, which are exactly the same as in the vanilla autoencoder
section, are as follows:
!pip install -q torch_snippets
from torch_snippets import *
from torchvision.datasets import MNIST
from torchvision import transforms
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'

--- Strana 553 ---
img_transform = transforms.Compose([
                    transforms.ToTensor(),
                    transforms.Normalize([0.5], [0.5]),
                    transforms.Lambda(lambda x: x.to(device))
                                    ])
trn_ds = MNIST('/content/', transform=img_transform, \
               train=True, download=True)
val_ds = MNIST('/content/', transform=img_transform, \
               train=False, download=True)
batch_size = 128
trn_dl = DataLoader(trn_ds, batch_size=batch_size, \
                    shuffle=True)
val_dl = DataLoader(val_ds, batch_size=batch_size, \
                    shuffle=False)
2. Define the class of neural network, ConvAutoEncoder:
Define the class and the __init__ method:
class ConvAutoEncoder(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
Define the encoder architecture:
        self.encoder = nn.Sequential(
                            nn.Conv2d(1, 32, 3, stride=3, \
                                      padding=1), 
                            nn.ReLU(True),
                            nn.MaxPool2d(2, stride=2),
                            nn.Conv2d(32, 64, 3, stride=2, \
                                      padding=1), 
                            nn.ReLU(True),
                            nn.MaxPool2d(2, stride=1)
                        )
Note that in the preceding code, we started with the initial number of
channels, which is 1, and increased it to 32, and then further increased
it to 64 while reducing the size of the output values by performing
nn.MaxPool2d and nn.Conv2d operations.
Define the decoder architecture:
        self.decoder = nn.Sequential(
                        nn.ConvTranspose2d(64, 32, 3, \
                                           stride=2), 
                        nn.ReLU(True),
                        nn.ConvTranspose2d(32, 16, 5, \
                                         stride=3,padding=1), 
                        nn.ReLU(True),
                        nn.ConvTranspose2d(16, 1, 2, \

--- Strana 554 ---
                                         stride=2,padding=1), 
                        nn.Tanh()
                    )
Define the forward method:
    def forward(self, x):
        x = self.encoder(x)
        x = self.decoder(x)
        return x
3. Get the summary of the model using the summary method:
model = ConvAutoEncoder().to(device)
!pip install torch_summary
from torchsummary import summary
summary(model, torch.zeros(2,1,28,28));
The preceding code results in the following output:
From the preceding summary, we can see that the MaxPool2d-6 layer with a
shape of batch size x 64 x 2 x 2 acts as the bottleneck layer.
Once we train the model, just like we did in the previous section (in steps 6,
7, 8, and 9), the variation of training and validation loss over increasing
epochs and the predictions on input images is as follows:

--- Strana 555 ---
From the preceding image, we can see that a convolutional autoencoder is
able to make much clearer predictions of the image than the vanilla
autoencoder. As an exercise, we suggest you vary the number of channels in
the encoder and decoder and then analyze the variation in results.
In the next section, we will address the question of grouping similar images
based on bottleneck layer values when the labels of images are not present.
Grouping similar images using t-SNE
In the previous sections, we represented each image in a much lower
dimension with the assumption that similar images will have similar
embeddings, and images that are not similar will have dissimilar
embeddings. However, we have not yet looked at the image similarity
measure or examined embedding representations in detail.
In this section, we will plot embedding (bottleneck) vectors in a 2-
dimensional space. We can reduce the 64-dimensional vector of
convolutional autoencoder to a 2-dimensional space by using a technique
called t-SNE. (More about t-SNE is available here: http://www.jmlr.org/papers/v
9/vandermaaten08a.html.)

--- Strana 556 ---
This way, our understanding that similar images will have similar
embeddings can be proved, as similar images should be clustered together in
the two-dimensional plane. In the following code, we will represent
embeddings of all the test images in a two-dimensional plane:
The following code is a continuation of the code built in the previous
section, Understanding convolutional autoencoders, and is available
as conv_auto_encoder.ipynb in the Chapter 11 folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://t
inyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1. Initialize lists so that we store the latent vectors (latent_vectors) and the
corresponding classes of images (note that we store the class of each
image only to verify if images of the same class, which are expected to
have a very high similarity with each other, are indeed close to each
other in terms of representation):
latent_vectors = []
classes = []
2. Loop through the images in the validation dataloader (val_dl) and store
the output of the encoder layer (model.encoder(im).view(len(im),-1) and the
class (clss) corresponding to each image (im):
for im,clss in val_dl:
    latent_vectors.append(model.encoder(im).view(len(im),-1))
    classes.extend(clss)
3. Concatenate the NumPy array of latent_vectors:
latent_vectors = torch.cat(latent_vectors).cpu()\
                      .detach().numpy()
4. Import t-SNE (TSNE) and specify that each vector is to be converted into
a 2-dimensional vector (TSNE(2)) so that we can plot it:
from sklearn.manifold import TSNE
tsne = TSNE(2)
5. Fit t-SNE by running the fit_transform method on image embeddings
(latent_vectors):
clustered = tsne.fit_transform(latent_vectors)
6. Plot the data points after fitting t-SNE:

--- Strana 557 ---
fig = plt.figure(figsize=(12,10))
cmap = plt.get_cmap('Spectral', 10)
plt.scatter(*zip(*clustered), c=classes, cmap=cmap)
plt.colorbar(drawedges=True)
The preceding code provides the following output:
We can see that images of the same class are clustered together, which
reinforces our understanding that the bottleneck layer has values in such a
way that images that look similar will have similar values.
So far, we have learned about using autoencoders to group similar images
together. In the next section, we will learn about using autoencoders to
generate new images.

--- Strana 558 ---
Understanding variational
autoencoders
So far, we have seen a scenario where we can group similar images into
clusters. Furthermore, we have learned that when we take embeddings of
images that fall in a given cluster, we can re-construct (decode) them.
However, what if an embedding (a latent vector) falls in between two
clusters? There is no guarantee that we would generate realistic images.
Variational autoencoders come in handy in such a scenario.
Before we dive into building a variational autoencoder, let's explore the
limitations of generating images from embeddings that do not fall into a
cluster (or in the middle of different clusters). First, we generate images by
sampling vectors:
The following code is a continuation of the code built in the previous section,
Understanding convolutional autoencoders, and is available as conv_auto_encoder.ipynb in
the chapter11 folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1. Calculate the latent vectors (embeddings) of the validation images in
the previous section:
latent_vectors = []
classes = []
for im,clss in val_dl:
    latent_vectors.append(model.encoder(im))
    classes.extend(clss)
latent_vectors = torch.cat(latent_vectors).cpu()\
                      .detach().numpy().reshape(10000, -1)
2. Generate random vectors with a column-level mean (mu) and a standard
deviation (sigma) and add slight noise to the standard deviation
(torch.randn(1,100)) before creating a vector from the mean and standard
deviation. Finally, save them in a list (rand_vectors):
rand_vectors = []
for col in latent_vectors.transpose(1,0):
    mu, sigma = col.mean(), col.std()
    rand_vectors.append(sigma*torch.randn(1,100) + mu)

--- Strana 559 ---
3. Plot the images reconstructed from the vectors obtained in step 2 and
the model trained in the previous section:
rand_vectors=torch.cat(rand_vectors).transpose(1,0).to(device)
fig,ax = plt.subplots(10,10,figsize=(7,7)); ax = iter(ax.flat)
for p in rand_vectors:
    img = model.decoder(p.reshape(1,64,2,2)).view(28,28)
    show(img, ax=next(ax))
The preceding code results in the following output:
We can see from the preceding output that when we plot images that were
generated from the mean and the noise-added standard deviation of columns
of known vectors, we got images that are less clear than before. This is a
realistic scenario, as we would not know beforehand about the range of
embedding vectors that would generate realistic pictures.
Variational Autoencoders (VAE) help us resolve this problem by
generating vectors that have a mean of 0 and a standard deviation of 1,

--- Strana 560 ---
thereby ensuring that we generate images that have a mean of 0 and a
standard deviation of 1.
In essence, in VAE, we are specifying that the bottleneck layer should follow
a certain distribution. In the next sections, we will learn about the strategy
we adopt with VAE, and we will also learn about KL divergence loss, which
helps us fetch bottleneck features that follow a certain distribution.
Working of VAE
In a VAE, we are building the network in such a way that a random vector
that is generated from a pre-defined distribution can generate a realistic
image. This was not possible with a simple autoencoder, as we did not
specify the distribution of data that generates an image in the network. We
enable that with a VAE by adopting the following strategy:
1. The output of the encoder is two vectors for each image:
One vector represents the mean.
The other represents the standard deviation.
2. From these two vectors, we fetch a modified vector that is the sum of
the mean and standard deviation (which is multiplied by a random
small number). The modified vector will be of the same number of
dimensions as each vector.
3. The modified vector obtained in the previous step is passed as input to
the decoder to fetch the image.
4. The loss value that we optimize for is a combination of the mean
squared error and the KL divergence loss:
KL divergence loss measures the deviation of the distribution of
the mean vector and the standard deviation vector from 0 and 1,
respectively.
Mean squared loss is the optimization we use to re-construct
(decode) an image.
By specifying that the mean vector should have a distribution centered
around 0 and the standard deviation vector should be centered around 1, we
are training the network in such a way that when we generate random noise

--- Strana 561 ---
with a mean of 0 and standard deviation of 1, the decoder will be able to
generate a realistic image.
Further, note that, had we only minimized KL divergence, the encoder would
have predicted a value of 0 for the mean vector and a standard deviation of 1
for every input. Thus, it is important to minimize KL divergence loss and
mean squared loss together.
In the next section, let's learn about KL divergence so that we can
incorporate it in the model's loss value calculation.
KL divergence
KL divergence helps explain the difference between two distributions of
data. In our specific case, we want our bottleneck feature values to be
following a normal distribution with a mean of 0 and a standard deviation of
1.
Thus, we use KL divergence loss to understand how different our bottleneck
feature values are with respect to the expected distribution of values having a
mean of 0 and a standard deviation of 1.
Let's take a look at how KL divergence loss helps by going through how it is
calculated:
In the preceding equation, σ and μ stand for the mean and standard deviation
values of each input image.
Let's understand the intuition behind the preceding equation:
Ensure that the mean vector is distributed around 0:

--- Strana 562 ---
Minimizing mean squared error (
) in the preceding equation
ensures that 
is as close to 0 as possible.
Ensure that the standard deviation vector is distributed around 1:
The terms in the rest of the equation (except 
) ensure that
sigma (the standard deviation vector) is distributed around 1.
The preceding loss function is minimized when the mean (µ) is 0 and the standard deviation is 1.
Further, by specifying that we are considering the logarithm of standard deviation, we are ensuring
that sigma values cannot be negative.
Now that we understand the high-level strategy of building a VAE and the
loss function to minimize in order to obtain a pre-defined distribution of
encoder output, let's implement a VAE in the next section.
Building a VAE
In this section, we will code up a VAE to generate new images of
handwritten digits.
The following code is available as VAE.ipynb in the Chapter11 folder of this book's GitHub
repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
Since we have the same data, all the steps in the Implementing vanilla
autoencoders section remain the same except steps 5 and 6, where we define
the network architecture and train model respectively, which we define in the
following code:
1. Step 1 to step 4, which are exactly the same as in the vanilla
autoencoder section, are as follows:
!pip install -q torch_snippets
from torch_snippets import *
import torch
import torch.nn as nn
import torch.nn.functional as F
import torch.optim as optim
from torchvision import datasets, transforms
from torchvision.utils import make_grid
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
train_dataset = datasets.MNIST(root='MNIST/', train=True, \
                        transform=transforms.ToTensor(), \

--- Strana 563 ---
                               download=True)
test_dataset = datasets.MNIST(root='MNIST/', train=False, \
                        transform=transforms.ToTensor(), \
                              download=True)
train_loader = torch.utils.data.DataLoader(dataset = \
                train_dataset, batch_size=64, shuffle=True)
test_loader = torch.utils.data.DataLoader(dataset= \
                test_dataset, batch_size=64, shuffle=False)
2. Define the neural network class, VAE:
Define the layers in the __init__ method that will be used in the other
methods:
class VAE(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, x_dim, h_dim1, h_dim2, z_dim):
        super(VAE, self).__init__()
        self.d1 = nn.Linear(x_dim, h_dim1)
        self.d2 = nn.Linear(h_dim1, h_dim2)
        self.d31 = nn.Linear(h_dim2, z_dim)
        self.d32 = nn.Linear(h_dim2, z_dim)
        self.d4 = nn.Linear(z_dim, h_dim2)
        self.d5 = nn.Linear(h_dim2, h_dim1)
        self.d6 = nn.Linear(h_dim1, x_dim)
Note that the d1 and d2 layers will correspond to the encoder section,
and d5 and d6 will correspond to the decoder section.
The d31 and d32 layers are the layers that correspond to mean and
standard deviation vectors respectively. However, for convenience,
one assumption we will make is that we will use the d32 layer as a
representation of the log of the variance vectors.
Define the encoder method:
    def encoder(self, x):
        h = F.relu(self.d1(x))
        h = F.relu(self.d2(h))
        return self.d31(h), self.d32(h)
Note that the encoder returns two vectors: one vector for the mean
(self.d31(h)) and the other for the log of variance values (self.d32(h)).
Define the method to sample (sampling) from the encoder's outputs:
    def sampling(self, mean, log_var):
        std = torch.exp(0.5*log_var)
        eps = torch.randn_like(std)
        return eps.mul(std).add_(mean)

--- Strana 564 ---
Note that exponential of 0.5*log_var (torch.exp(0.5*log_var))
represents the standard deviation (std). Also, we are returning the
addition of the mean and the standard deviation multiplied by noise
generated by a random normal distribution. By multiplying by eps,
we ensure that even with a slight change in the encoder vector, we
can generate an image.
Define the decoder method:
    def decoder(self, z):
        h = F.relu(self.d4(z))
        h = F.relu(self.d5(h))
        return F.sigmoid(self.d6(h))
Define the forward method:
    def forward(self, x):
        mean, log_var = self.encoder(x.view(-1, 784))
        z = self.sampling(mean, log_var)
        return self.decoder(z), mean, log_var
In the preceding method, we are ensuring that the encoder returns the
mean and log of the variance values. Next, we are sampling with the
addition of mean with epsilon multiplied by the log of the variance
and returning the values after passing through the decoder.
3. Define functions to train on a batch and validate on a batch:
def train_batch(data, model, optimizer, loss_function):
    model.train()
    data = data.to(device)
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    recon_batch, mean, log_var = model(data)
    loss, mse, kld = loss_function(recon_batch, data, \
                                   mean, log_var)
    loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    return loss, mse, kld, log_var.mean(), mean.mean()
@torch.no_grad()
def validate_batch(data, model, loss_function):
    model.eval()
    data = data.to(device)
    recon, mean, log_var = model(data)
    loss, mse, kld = loss_function(recon, data, mean, \
                                   log_var)
    return loss, mse, kld, log_var.mean(), mean.mean()
4. Define the loss function:

--- Strana 565 ---
def loss_function(recon_x, x, mean, log_var):
    RECON = F.mse_loss(recon_x, x.view(-1, 784), \
                       reduction='sum')
    KLD = -0.5 * torch.sum(1 + log_var - mean.pow(2) - \
                           log_var.exp())
    return RECON + KLD, RECON, KLD
In the preceding code, we are fetching the MSE loss (RECON) between
the original image (x) and the reconstructed image (recon_x). Next, we
are calculating the KL divergence loss (KLD) based on the formula we
defined in the previous section. Note that the exponential of the log
of the variance is the variance value.
5. Define the model object (vae) and the optimizer function:
vae = VAE(x_dim=784, h_dim1=512, h_dim2=256, \
          z_dim=50).to(device)
optimizer = optim.AdamW(vae.parameters(), lr=1e-3)
6. Train the model over increasing epochs:
n_epochs = 10
log = Report(n_epochs)
for epoch in range(n_epochs):
    N = len(train_loader)
    for batch_idx, (data, _) in enumerate(train_loader):
        loss, recon, kld, log_var, mean = train_batch(data, \
                                            vae, optimizer, \
                                               loss_function)
        pos = epoch + (1+batch_idx)/N
        log.record(pos, train_loss=loss, train_kld=kld, \
                   train_recon=recon,train_log_var=log_var, \
                   train_mean=mean, end='\r')
        
    N = len(test_loader)
    for batch_idx, (data, _) in enumerate(test_loader):
        loss, recon, kld,log_var,mean = validate_batch(data, \
                                           vae, loss_function)
        pos = epoch + (1+batch_idx)/N
        log.record(pos, val_loss=loss, val_kld=kld, \
                   val_recon=recon, val_log_var=log_var, \
                   val_mean=mean, end='\r')
        
    log.report_avgs(epoch+1)
    with torch.no_grad():
        z = torch.randn(64, 50).to(device)
        sample = vae.decoder(z).to(device)
        images = make_grid(sample.view(64, 1, 28, 28))\
                                 .permute(1,2,0)
        show(images)
log.plot_epochs(['train_loss','val_loss'])

--- Strana 566 ---
While the majority of the preceding code is familiar, let's understand the grid
image generation process. We are first generating a random vector (z) and
passing it through the decoder (vae.decoder) to fetch a sample of images. The
make_grid function plots images (and denormalizes them automatically, if
required, before plotting).
The output of loss value variations and a sample of images generated is as
follows:
We can see that we are able to generate realistic new images that were not
present in the original image.
So far, we have learned about generating new images using VAEs. However,
what if we want to modify images in such a way that a model cannot identify
the right class? We will learn about the technique leveraged to address this in
the next section.

--- Strana 567 ---
Performing an adversarial attack
on images
In the previous section, we learned about generating an image from random
noise using a VAE. However, it was an unsupervised exercise. What if we
want to modify an image in such a way that the change in image is so
minimal that it is indistinguishable from the original image for a human, but
still the neural network model perceives the object as belonging to a
different class? Adversarial attacks on images come in handy in such a
scenario.
Adversarial attacks refer to the changes that we make to input image values
(pixels) so that we meet a certain objective.
In this section, we will learn about modifying an image slightly in such a
way that the pre-trained models now predict them as a different class
(specified by the user) and not the original class. The strategy we will adopt
is as follows:
1. Provide an image of an elephant.
2. Specify the target class corresponding to the image.
3. Import a pre-trained model where the parameters of the model are set so
that they are not updated (gradients = False).
4. Specify that we calculate gradients on input image pixel values and not
on the weight values of the network. This is because while training to
fool a network, we do not have control over the model, but have control
only over the image we send to the model.
5. Calculate the loss corresponding to the model predictions and the target
class.
6. Perform backpropagation on the model. This step helps us understand
the gradient associated with each input pixel value.
7. Update the input image pixel values based on the direction of the
gradient corresponding to each input pixel value.
8. Repeat steps 5, 6, and 7 over multiple epochs.

--- Strana 568 ---
Let's do this with code:
The following code is available as adversarial_attack.ipynb in the Chapter11 folder of this
book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code contains URLs to
download data from. We strongly recommend you to execute the notebook in GitHub to
reproduce results while you understand the steps to perform and explanation of various
code components in text.
1. Import the relevant packages, the image that we work on for this use
case, and the pre-trained ResNet50 model. Also, specify that we want to
freeze parameters:
!pip install torch_snippets
from torch_snippets import inspect, show, np, torch, nn
from torchvision.models import resnet50
model = resnet50(pretrained=True)
for param in model.parameters():
    param.requires_grad = False
model = model.eval()
import requests
from PIL import Image
url = 'https://lionsvalley.co.za/wp-content/uploads/2015/11/african-
elephant-square.jpg'
original_image = Image.open(requests.get(url, stream=True)\
                            .raw).convert('RGB')
original_image = np.array(original_image)
original_image = torch.Tensor(original_image)
2. Import Imagenet classes and assign IDs to each class:
image_net_classes = 
'https://gist.githubusercontent.com/yrevar/942d3a0ac09ec9e5eb3a/raw/238f720
ff059c1f82f368259d1ca4ffa5dd8f9f5/imagenet1000_clsidx_to_labels.txt'
image_net_classes = requests.get(image_net_classes).text
image_net_ids = eval(image_net_classes)
image_net_classes = {i:j for j,i in image_net_ids.items()}
3. Specify a function to normalize (image2tensor) and denormalize
(tensor2image) the image:
from torchvision import transforms as T
from torch.nn import functional as F
normalize = T.Normalize([0.485, 0.456, 0.406], 
                        [0.229, 0.224, 0.225])
denormalize=T.Normalize( \
                [-0.485/0.229,-0.456/0.224,-0.406/0.225], 
                [1/0.229, 1/0.224, 1/0.225])
def image2tensor(input):
    x = normalize(input.clone().permute(2,0,1)/255.)[None]
    return x
def tensor2image(input):
    x = (denormalize(input[0].clone()).permute(1,2,0)*255.)\

--- Strana 569 ---
                                      .type(torch.uint8)
    return x
4. Define a function to predict on a given image (predict_on_image):
def predict_on_image(input):
    model.eval()
    show(input)
    input = image2tensor(input)
    pred = model(input)
    pred = F.softmax(pred, dim=-1)[0]
    prob, clss = torch.max(pred, 0)
    clss = image_net_ids[clss.item()]
    print(f'PREDICTION: `{clss}` @ {prob.item()}')
In the preceding code, we are converting an input image into a tensor
(which is a function to normalize using the image2tensor method
defined earlier) and passing through a model to fetch the class (clss) of
the object in the image and probability (prob) of prediction.
5. Define the attack function:
The attack function takes image, model, and target as input:
from tqdm import trange
losses = []
def attack(image, model, target, epsilon=1e-6):
Convert the image into a tensor and specify that the input requires
gradients to be calculated:
    input = image2tensor(image)
    input.requires_grad = True
Calculate the prediction by passing the normalized input (input) through
the model, and then calculate the loss value corresponding to the
specified target class:
    pred = model(input)
    loss = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()(pred, target)
Perform backpropagation to reduce the loss:
    loss.backward()
    losses.append(loss.mean().item())
Update the image very slightly based on the gradient direction:

--- Strana 570 ---
    output = input - epsilon * input.grad.sign()
In the preceding code, we are updating input values by a very small
amount (multiplying by epsilon). Also, we are not updating the image
by the magnitude of the gradient, but the direction of gradient only
(input.grad.sign()) after multiplying it by a very small value (epsilon).
Return the output after converting the tensor to an image (tensor2image),
which denormalizes the image:
    output = tensor2image(output)
    del input
    return output.detach()
6. Modify the image to belong to a different class:
Specify the targets (desired_targets) that we want to convert the image to:
modified_images = []
desired_targets = ['lemon', 'comic book', 'sax, saxophone']
Loop through the targets and specify the target class in each iteration:
for target in desired_targets:
    target = torch.tensor([image_net_classes[target]])
Modify the image to attack over increasing epochs and collect them in a
list:
    image_to_attack = original_image.clone()
    for _ in trange(10):
        image_to_attack = attack(image_to_attack,model,target)
    modified_images.append(image_to_attack)
The following code results in modified images and the corresponding
classes:
for image in [original_image, *modified_images]:
    predict_on_image(image)
    inspect(image)
The preceding code generates the following:

--- Strana 571 ---
We can see that as we modify the image very slightly, the prediction class is
completely different but with very high confidence.
Now that we understand how to modify images to so that they are classed as
we wish, in the next section, we will learn about modifying an image (a
content image) in the style of our choice. We must provide a content image
and a style image.
Performing neural style transfer
In neural style transfer, we have a content image and a style image, and we
combine these two images in such a way that the combined image preserves
the content of the content image while maintaining the style of the style
image.
An example style image and content image are as follows:

--- Strana 572 ---
In the preceding picture, we want to retain the content in the picture on right
(the content image), but overlay it with the color and texture in the picture
on the left (the style image).
The process of performing neural style transfer is as follows. We try to
modify the original image in a way that the loss value is split into content
loss and style loss. Content loss refers to how different the generated image
is from the content image. Style loss refers to how correlated the style
image is to the generated image.
While we mentioned that the loss is calculated based on the difference in
images, in practice, we modify it slightly by ensuring that the loss is
calculated using the feature layer activations of images and not the original
images. For example, the content loss at layer 2 will be the squared
difference between the activations of the content image and the generated
image when passed through the second layer.
Loss is calculated on feature layers and not the original image, as the feature
layers capture certain attributes of the original image (for example, the
outline of the foreground corresponding to the original image in the higher
layers and the details of fine-grained objects in the lower layers).
While calculating the content loss seems straightforward, let's try to
understand how to calculate the similarity between the generated image and
the style image. A technique called gram matrix comes in handy. Gram

--- Strana 573 ---
matrix calculates the similarity between a generated image and a style
image, and is calculated as follows:
GM[l] is the gram matrix value at layer l for the style image, S, and the
generated image, G.
A gram matrix results from multiplying a matrix by the transpose of itself.
Let's understand the use of this operation.
Imagine that you are working on a layer that has a feature output of 32 x 32
x 256. The gram matrix is calculated as the correlation of each of the 32 x 32
values in a channel with respect to the values across all channels. Thus, the
gram matrix calculation results in a matrix that is 256 x 256 in shape. We
now compare the 256 x 256 values of the style image and the generated
image to calculate the style loss.
Let's understand why GramMatrix is important for style transfer.
In a successful scenario, say we transferred Picasso's style to the Mona Lisa.
Let's call the Picasso style St (for style), the original Mona Lisa So (for
source), and the final image Ta (for target). Note that in an ideal scenario, the
local features in image Ta are the same as the local features in St. Even
though the content might not be the same, getting similar colors, shapes, and
textures as the style image into the target image is what is important in style
transfer.
By extension, if we were to send So and extract its features from an
intermediate layer of VGG19, they will vary from the features obtained by
sending Ta. However, within each feature set, the corresponding vectors will
vary relatively with each other in a similar fashion. Say, for example, the
ratio of the mean of the first channel to the mean of the second channel in
both the feature sets will be similar. This is why we are trying to compute
using Gram Loss.

--- Strana 574 ---
Content loss is calculated by comparing the difference in feature activations of the
content image with respect to the generated image. Style loss is calculated by first
calculating the gram matrix in the pre-defined layers and then comparing the gram
matrices of the generated image and the style image.
Now that we are able to calculate the style loss and the content loss, the final
modified input image is the image that minimizes the overall loss, that is, a
weighted average of the style and content loss.
The high-level strategy we adopt to implement neural style transfer is as
follows:
1. Pass the input image through a pre-trained model.
2. Extract the layer values at pre-defined layers.
3. Pass the generated image through the model and extract its values at the
same pre-defined layers.
4. Calculate the content loss at each layer corresponding to the content
image and generated image.
5. Pass the style image through multiple layers of the model and calculate
the gram matrix values of the style image.
6. Pass the generated image through the same layers that the style image is
passed through and calculate its corresponding gram matrix values.
7. Extract the squared difference of the gram matrix values of the two
images. This will be the style loss.
8. The overall loss will be the weighted average of the style loss and
content loss.
9. The input image that minimizes the overall loss will be the final image
of interest.
Let's now code up the preceding strategy:
The following code is available as neural_style_transfer.ipynb in the chapter11 folder of this
book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code contains URLs to
download data from and is moderately lengthy. We strongly recommend you to execute
the notebook in GitHub to reproduce results while you understand the steps to perform
and explanation of various code components in text.
1. Import the relevant packages:
!pip install torch_snippets
from torch_snippets import *
from torchvision import transforms as T

--- Strana 575 ---
from torch.nn import functional as F
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
2. Define the functions to preprocess and postprocess the data:
from torchvision.models import vgg19
preprocess = T.Compose([
                T.ToTensor(),
                T.Normalize(mean=[0.485, 0.456, 0.406], 
                            std=[0.229, 0.224, 0.225]),
                T.Lambda(lambda x: x.mul_(255))
            ])
postprocess = T.Compose([
                T.Lambda(lambda x: x.mul_(1./255)),
                T.Normalize(\
                mean=[-0.485/0.229,-0.456/0.224,-0.406/0.225], 
                            std=[1/0.229, 1/0.224, 1/0.225]),
            ])
3. Define the GramMatrix module:
class GramMatrix(nn.Module):
    def forward(self, input):
        b,c,h,w = input.size()
        feat = input.view(b, c, h*w)
        G = feat@feat.transpose(1,2)
        G.div_(h*w)
        return G
In the preceding code, we are computing all the possible inner
products of the features with themselves, which is basically asking
how all the vectors relate to each other. 
4. Define the gram matrix's corresponding MSE loss, GramMSELoss:
class GramMSELoss(nn.Module):
    def forward(self, input, target):
        out = F.mse_loss(GramMatrix()(input), target)
        return(out)
Once we have the gram vectors for both feature sets, it is important
that they match as closely as possible, and hence the mse_loss.
5. Define the model class, vgg19_modified:
Initialize the class:
class vgg19_modified(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()

--- Strana 576 ---
Extract the features:
        features = list(vgg19(pretrained = True).features)
        self.features = nn.ModuleList(features).eval() 
Define the forward method, which takes the list of layers and returns the
features corresponding to each layer:
    def forward(self, x, layers=[]):
        order = np.argsort(layers)
        _results, results = [], []
        for ix,model in enumerate(self.features):
            x = model(x)
            if ix in layers: _results.append(x)
        for o in order: results.append(_results[o])
        return results if layers is not [] else x
Define the model object:
vgg = vgg19_modified().to(device)
6. Import the content and style images:
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/z1y0fy2r6z6m6py/60.jpg
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/1svdliljyo0a98v/style_image.png
Make sure that the images are resized to be of the same shape, 512 x
512 x 3:
imgs = [Image.open(path).resize((512,512)).convert('RGB') \
        for path in ['style_image.png', '60.jpg']]
style_image,content_image=[preprocess(img).to(device)[None] \
                              for img in imgs]
7. Specify that the content image is to modified with requires_grad = True:
opt_img = content_image.data.clone()
opt_img.requires_grad = True
8. Specify the layers that define content loss and style loss, that is, which
intermediate VGG layers we are using, to compare gram matrices for
style and raw feature vectors for content:
style_layers = [0, 5, 10, 19, 28] 
content_layers = [21]
loss_layers = style_layers + content_layers
9. Define the loss function for content and style loss values:

--- Strana 577 ---
loss_fns = [GramMSELoss()] * len(style_layers) + \
            [nn.MSELoss()] * len(content_layers)
loss_fns = [loss_fn.to(device) for loss_fn in loss_fns]
10. Define the weightage associated with content and style loss:
style_weights = [1000/n**2 for n in [64,128,256,512,512]] 
content_weights = [1]
weights = style_weights + content_weights
11. We need to manipulate our image such that the style of the target image
resembles style_image as much as possible. Hence we compute the
style_targets values of style_image by computing GramMatrix of features
obtained from a few chosen layers of VGG. Since the overall content
should be preserved, we choose the content_layer variable at which we
compute the raw features from VGG:
style_targets = [GramMatrix()(A).detach() for A in \
                 vgg(style_image, style_layers)]
content_targets = [A.detach() for A in \
                   vgg(content_image, content_layers)]
targets = style_targets + content_targets
12. Define the optimizer and the number of iterations (max_iters). Even
though we could have used Adam or any other optimizer, LBFGS is an
optimizer that has been observed to work best in deterministic
scenarios. Additionally, since we are dealing with exactly one image,
there is nothing random. Many experiments have revealed that LBFGS
converges faster and to lower losses in neural transfer settings, so we
will use this optimizer:
max_iters = 500
optimizer = optim.LBFGS([opt_img])
log = Report(max_iters)
13. Perform the optimization. In deterministic scenarios where we are
iterating on the same tensor again and again, we can wrap the optimizer
step as a function with zero arguments and repeatedly call it, as shown
here:
iters = 0
while iters < max_iters:
    def closure():
        global iters
        iters += 1
        optimizer.zero_grad()
        out = vgg(opt_img, loss_layers)

--- Strana 578 ---
        layer_losses = [weights[a]*loss_fns[a](A,targets[a]) \
                        for a,A in enumerate(out)]
        loss = sum(layer_losses)
        loss.backward()
        log.record(pos=iters, loss=loss, end='\r')
        return loss
    optimizer.step(closure)
14. Plot the variation in the loss:
log.plot(log=True)
This results in the following output:
15. Plot the image with the combination of content and style images:
out_img = postprocess(opt_img[0]).permute(1,2,0)
show(out_img)
The output is as follows:

--- Strana 579 ---
From the preceding picture, we can see that the image is a combination of
content and style images.
With this, we have seen two ways of manipulating an image: an adversarial
attack to modify the class of an image, and style transfer to combine the
style of one image with the content of another image. In the next section, we
will learn about generating deep fakes, which transfer an expression from
one face to another.
Generating deep fakes
We have learned about two different image-to-image tasks so far: semantic
segmentation with UNet and image reconstruction with autoencoders. Deep
fakery is an image-to-image task that has a very similar underlying theory.
Imagine a scenario where you want to create an application that takes a
given image of a face and changes the facial expression in a way that you

--- Strana 580 ---
want. Deep fakes come in handy in this scenario. While we will not discuss
the very latest in deep fakes in this book, techniques such as few-shot
adversarial learning are developed to generate realistic images with the facial
expression of interest. Knowledge of how deep fakes work and GANs
(which you will learn about in the next chapters) will help you identify
videos that are fake videos.
In the task of deep fakery, we would have a few hundred pictures of person
A and a few hundred pictures of person B. The objective is to reconstruct
person B's face with the facial expression of person A and vice versa.
The following diagram explains how the deep fake image generation process
works:

--- Strana 581 ---

--- Strana 582 ---
In the preceding picture, we are passing images of person A and person B
through an encoder (Encoder). Once we get the latent vectors corresponding
to person A (Latent Face A) and person B (Latent Face B), we pass the
latent vectors through their corresponding decoders (Decoder A and
Decoder B) to fetch the corresponding original images (Reconstructed
Face A and Reconstructed Face B). So far, the concept of encoder and
decoder is very similar to what we learned in the Autoencoders section.
However, in this scenario, we have only one encoder, but two decoders (each
decoder corresponding to a different person). The expectation is that the
latent vectors obtained from the encoder represent the information about the
facial expression present within the image, while the decoder fetches the
image corresponding to the person. Once the encoder and the two decoders
are trained, while performing deep fake image generation, we switch the
connection within our architecture as follows:

--- Strana 583 ---

--- Strana 584 ---
When the latent vector of person A is passed through decoder B, the
reconstructed face of person B will have the characteristics of person A (a
smiling face) and vice versa for person B when passed through decoder A (a
sad face).
One additional trick that helps in generating a realistic image is warping face images
and feeding them to the network in such a way that the warped face is the input and the
original image is expected as the output.
Now that we understand how it works, let's implement the generation of fake
images of one person with the expression of another person using
autoencoders with the following code:
The following code is available as Generating_Deep_Fakes.ipynb in the Chapter11 folder of this
book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code contains URLs to
download data from and is moderately lengthy. We strongly recommend you to execute
the notebook in GitHub to reproduce results while you understand the steps to perform
and explanation of various code components in text.
1. Let's download the data and the source code as follows:
import os
if not os.path.exists('Faceswap-Deepfake-Pytorch'):
    !wget -q https://www.dropbox.com/s/5ji7jl7httso9ny/person_images.zip
    !wget -q https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sizhky/deep-fake-
util/main/random_warp.py
    !unzip -q person_images.zip
!pip install -q torch_snippets torch_summary
from torch_snippets import *
from random_warp import get_training_data
2. Fetch face crops from the images:
Define the face cascade, which draws a bounding box around the face
in an image. There's more on cascades in Chapter 18, OpenCV Utilities
for Image Analysis. However, for now, it suffices to say that the face
cascade draws a tight bounding box around the face present in the
image:
face_cascade = cv2.CascadeClassifier(cv2.data.haarcascades + \
                        'haarcascade_frontalface_default.xml')
Define a function (crop_face) for cropping faces from an image:
def crop_face(img):
    gray = cv2.cvtColor(img, cv2.COLOR_BGR2GRAY)

--- Strana 585 ---
    faces = face_cascade.detectMultiScale(gray, 1.3, 5)
    if(len(faces)>0):
        for (x,y,w,h) in faces:
            img2 = img[y:(y+h),x:(x+w),:]
        img2 = cv2.resize(img2,(256,256))
        return img2, True
    else:
        return img, False
In the preceding function, we are passing the grayscaled image (gray)
through face cascade and cropping the rectangle that contains the
face. Next, we are returning a re-sized image (img2). Further, to
account for a scenario where there is no face detected in the image,
we are passing a flag to show whether a face is detected.
Crop the images of personA and personB and place them in separate
folders:
!mkdir cropped_faces_personA
!mkdir cropped_faces_personB
def crop_images(folder):
    images = Glob(folder+'/*.jpg')
    for i in range(len(images)):
        img = read(images[i],1)
        img2, face_detected = crop_face(img)
        if(face_detected==False):
            continue
        else:
            cv2.imwrite('cropped_faces_'+folder+'/'+str(i)+ \
                '.jpg',cv2.cvtColor(img2, cv2.COLOR_RGB2BGR))
crop_images('personA')
crop_images('personB')
3. Create a dataloader and inspect the data:
class ImageDataset(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, items_A, items_B):
        self.items_A = np.concatenate([read(f,1)[None] \
                                       for f in items_A])/255.
        self.items_B = np.concatenate([read(f,1)[None] \
                                       for f in items_B])/255.
        self.items_A += self.items_B.mean(axis=(0, 1, 2)) \
                        - self.items_A.mean(axis=(0, 1, 2))
    def __len__(self):
        return min(len(self.items_A), len(self.items_B))
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        a, b = choose(self.items_A), choose(self.items_B)
        return a, b
    def collate_fn(self, batch):
        imsA, imsB = list(zip(*batch))
        imsA, targetA = get_training_data(imsA, len(imsA))

--- Strana 586 ---
        imsB, targetB = get_training_data(imsB, len(imsB))
        imsA, imsB, targetA, targetB = [torch.Tensor(i)\
                                        .permute(0,3,1,2)\
                                        .to(device) \
                                        for i in [imsA, imsB,\
                                        targetA, targetB]]
        return imsA, imsB, targetA, targetB
a = ImageDataset(Glob('cropped_faces_personA'), \
                 Glob('cropped_faces_personB'))
x = DataLoader(a, batch_size=32, collate_fn=a.collate_fn)
The dataloader is returning four tensors, imsA, imsB, targetA, and targetB.
The first tensor (imsA) is a distorted (warped) version of the third
tensor (targetA) and the second (imsB) is a distorted (warped) version
of the fourth tensor (targetB). 
Also, as you can see in the line a
=ImageDataset(Glob('cropped_faces_personA'), Glob('cropped_faces_personB')),
we have two folders of images, one for each person. There is no
relation between any of the faces, and in the __iteritems__ dataset, we
are randomly fetching two faces every time.
The key function in this step is get_training_data, present in collate_fn.
This is an augmentation function for warping (distorting) faces.
We are giving distorted faces as input to the autoencoder and trying
to predict regular faces.
The advantage of warping is that not only does it increase our training data size but also
acts as a regularizer to the network, which is forced to understand key facial features
despite being given a distorted face. 
Let's inspect a few images:
inspect(*next(iter(x)))
for i in next(iter(x)):
    subplots(i[:8], nc=4, sz=(4,2))
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 587 ---
Note that the input images are warped, while the output images are
not, and the input to output images now have a one-to-one
correspondence.
4. Build the model and inspect it:
Define the convolution (_ConvLayer) and upscaling (_UpScale) functions as
well as the Reshape class that will be leveraged while building model:
def _ConvLayer(input_features, output_features):
    return nn.Sequential(
        nn.Conv2d(input_features, output_features, 
                  kernel_size=5, stride=2, padding=2),
        nn.LeakyReLU(0.1, inplace=True)
    )
def _UpScale(input_features, output_features):
    return nn.Sequential(
        nn.ConvTranspose2d(input_features, output_features, 
                         kernel_size=2, stride=2, padding=0),
        nn.LeakyReLU(0.1, inplace=True)
    )
class Reshape(nn.Module):
    def forward(self, input):
        output = input.view(-1, 1024, 4, 4) # channel * 4 * 4
        return output

--- Strana 588 ---
Define the Autoencoder model class, which has a single encoder and two
decoders (decoder_A and decoder_B):
class Autoencoder(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        super(Autoencoder, self).__init__()
        self.encoder = nn.Sequential(
                        _ConvLayer(3, 128),
                        _ConvLayer(128, 256),
                        _ConvLayer(256, 512),
                        _ConvLayer(512, 1024),
                        nn.Flatten(),
                        nn.Linear(1024 * 4 * 4, 1024),
                        nn.Linear(1024, 1024 * 4 * 4),
                        Reshape(),
                        _UpScale(1024, 512),
                    )
        self.decoder_A = nn.Sequential(
                        _UpScale(512, 256),
                        _UpScale(256, 128),
                        _UpScale(128, 64),
                        nn.Conv2d(64, 3, kernel_size=3, \
                                  padding=1),
                        nn.Sigmoid(),
                    )
        self.decoder_B = nn.Sequential(
                        _UpScale(512, 256),
                        _UpScale(256, 128),
                        _UpScale(128, 64),
                        nn.Conv2d(64, 3, kernel_size=3, \
                                  padding=1),
                        nn.Sigmoid(),
                    )
    def forward(self, x, select='A'):
        if select == 'A':
            out = self.encoder(x)
            out = self.decoder_A(out)
        else:
            out = self.encoder(x)
            out = self.decoder_B(out)
        return out
Generate a summary of the model:
from torchsummary import summary
model = Autoencoder()
summary(model, torch.zeros(32,3,64,64), 'A');
The preceding code generates the following output:

--- Strana 589 ---
5. Define the train_batch logic:
def train_batch(model, data, criterion, optimizes):
    optA, optB = optimizers
    optA.zero_grad()
    optB.zero_grad()
    imgA, imgB, targetA, targetB = data
    _imgA, _imgB = model(imgA, 'A'), model(imgB, 'B')

--- Strana 590 ---
    lossA = criterion(_imgA, targetA)
    lossB = criterion(_imgB, targetB)
    
    lossA.backward()
    lossB.backward()
    optA.step()
    optB.step()
    return lossA.item(), lossB.item()
What we are interested in is running model(imgA, 'B') (which would
return an image of class B using an input image from class A), but
we do not have a ground truth to compare it against. So instead, what
we are doing is predicting _imgA from imgA (where imgA is a distorted
version of targetA) and comparing _imgA with targetA using nn.L1Loss.
We do not need validate_batch as there is no validation dataset. We
will predict new images during training and qualitatively see the
progress.
6. Create all the required components to train the model:
model = Autoencoder().to(device)
dataset = ImageDataset(Glob('cropped_faces_personA'), \
                       Glob('cropped_faces_personB'))
dataloader = DataLoader(dataset, 32, \
                        collate_fn=dataset.collate_fn)
optimizers=optim.Adam( \
                [{'params': model.encoder.parameters()}, \
                 {'params': model.decoder_A.parameters()}], \
                 lr=5e-5, betas=(0.5, 0.999)), \
        optim.Adam([{'params': model.encoder.parameters()}, \
                 {'params': model.decoder_B.parameters()}], \
                        lr=5e-5, betas=(0.5, 0.999))
             
criterion = nn.L1Loss()
7. Train the model:
n_epochs = 1000
log = Report(n_epochs)
!mkdir checkpoint
for ex in range(n_epochs):
    N = len(dataloader)
    for bx,data in enumerate(dataloader):
        lossA, lossB = train_batch(model, data, 
                                   criterion, optimizers)
        log.record(ex+(1+bx)/N, lossA=lossA, 
                   lossB=lossB, end='\r')

--- Strana 591 ---
    log.report_avgs(ex+1)
    if (ex+1)%100 == 0:
        state = {
                'state': model.state_dict(),
                'epoch': ex
            }
        torch.save(state, './checkpoint/autoencoder.pth')
    if (ex+1)%100 == 0:
        bs = 5
        a,b,A,B = data
        line('A to B')
        _a = model(a[:bs], 'A')
        _b = model(a[:bs], 'B')
        x = torch.cat([A[:bs],_a,_b])
        subplots(x, nc=bs, figsize=(bs*2, 5))
        line('B to A')
        _a = model(b[:bs], 'A')
        _b = model(b[:bs], 'B')
        x = torch.cat([B[:bs],_a,_b])
        subplots(x, nc=bs, figsize=(bs*2, 5))
log.plot_epochs()
The preceding code results in reconstructed images, as follows:

--- Strana 592 ---
The variation in loss values is as follows:

--- Strana 593 ---
As you can see, we can swap expressions from one face to another by
tweaking an autoencoder to have two decoders instead of one. Furthermore,
with a higher number of epochs, the reconstructed image gets more realistic.
Summary
In this chapter, we have learned about the different variants of autoencoders:
vanilla, convolutional, and variational. We also learned about how the
number of units in the bottleneck layer influences the reconstructed image.
Next, we learned about identifying images that are similar to a given image
using the t-SNE technique. We learned that when we sample vectors, we
cannot get realistic images, and by using variational autoencoders, we
learned about generating new images by using a combination of
reconstruction loss and KL divergence loss. Next, we learned how to
perform an adversarial attack on images to modify the class of an image
while not changing the perceptive content of the image. Finally, we learned
about leveraging the combination of content loss and gram matrix-based

--- Strana 594 ---
style loss to optimize for content and style loss of images to come up with an
image that is a combination of two input images. Finally, we learned about
tweaking an autoencoder to swap two faces without any supervision. 
Now that we have learned about generating novel images from a given set of
images, in the next chapter, we will build upon this topic to generate
completely new images using variants of a network called the Generative
Adversarial Network.
Questions
1. What is an encoder in an autoencoder?
2. What loss function does an autoencoder optimize for?
3. How do autoencoders help in grouping similar images?
4. When is a convolutional autoencoder useful?
5. Why do we get non-intuitive images if we randomly sample from
vector space of embeddings obtained from vanilla/convolutional
autoencoders?
6. What are the loss functions that VAEs optimize for?
7. How do VAEs overcome the limitation of vanilla/convolutional
autoencoders to generate new images?
8. During an adversarial attack, why do we modify the input image pixels
and not the weight values?
9. In a neural style transfer, what are the losses that we optimize for?
10. Why do we consider the activation of different layers and not the
original image when calculating style and content loss?
11. Why do we consider gram matrix loss and not the difference between
images when calculating style loss?
12. Why do we warp images while building a model to generate deep
fakes?

--- Strana 595 ---
Image Generation Using GANs
In the previous chapter, we learned about manipulating an image using
neural style transfer and super-imposed the expression in one image on
another. However, what if we give the network a bunch of images and ask it
to come up with an entirely new image, all on its own?
Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) is a step toward achieving the
feat of generating an image given a collection of images. In this chapter, we
will start by learning about the idea behind what makes GANs work, before
building one from scratch. GANs are a vast field that is expanding as we
write this book. This chapter will lay the foundation of GANs through three
variants of GANs, while we will learn about more advanced GANs and their
applications in the next chapter. 
In this chapter, we will explore the following topics:
Introducing GANs
Using GANs to generate handwritten digits
Using DCGANs to generate face images
Implementing conditional GANs
Introducing GANs
To understand GANs, we need to understand two terms: generator and
discriminator. First, we should have a reasonable sample of images of an
object. A generative network (generator) learns representation from a sample
of images and then generates images similar to the sample of images. A
discriminator network (discriminator) is one that looks at the image
generated (by the generator network) and the original sample of images and
classifies images as original ones or generated (fake) ones.
The generator network generates images in such a way that the discriminator
classifies the images as real ones. The discriminator network classifies the
generated images as fake and the images in the original sample as real.

--- Strana 596 ---
Essentially, the adversarial term in GAN represents the opposite nature of
the two networks—a generator network, which generates images to fool the
discriminator network, and a discriminator network that classifies each
image by saying whether the image is generated or is an original.
Let's understand the process employed by GANs through the
following diagram:
In the preceding diagram, the generator network is generating images from
random noise as input. A discriminator network is looking at the images
generated by the generator and comparing them with real data (a sample of
images that are provided) to specify whether the generated image is real or
fake. The generator tries to generate as many realistic images as possible,
while the discriminator tries to detect which of the images that are generated
by the generator are fake. This way, the generator learns to generate as many
realistic images as possible by learning from what the discriminator looks at
to identify whether an image is fake.
Typically, the generator and discriminator are trained alternately. This way, it
becomes a police-and-thief game, where the generator is the thief trying to

--- Strana 597 ---
generate fake data, while the discriminator is the police trying to identify the
available data as real or fake.
Let's now understand how we compute the loss values for both the generator
and discriminator to train both the networks together using the following
diagram and steps:
The steps involved in training GANs are as follows:
1. Train the generator (and not the discriminator) to generate images such
that the discriminator classifies the images as real.

--- Strana 598 ---
2. Train the discriminator (and not the generator) to classify the images
that the generator generates as fake.
3. Repeat the process until an equilibrium is achieved.
In the preceding scenario, when the discriminator can detect generated
images really well, the loss corresponding to the generator is much higher
when compared to the loss corresponding to the discriminator.
Thus, the gradients adjust in such a way that the generator would have a loss.
However, it would tip the discriminator loss to a higher side. In the next
iteration, the gradients adjust so that the discriminator loss is lower. This
way, the generator and discriminator keep getting trained until a point where
the generator generates realistic images and the discriminator cannot
distinguish between a real or a generated image.
With this understanding, let's generate images relating to the MNIST dataset
in the next section.
Using GANs to generate
handwritten digits
To generate images of handwritten digits, we will leverage the same network
as we learned about in the previous section. The strategy we will adopt is as
follows:
1. Import MNIST data.
2. Initialize random noise.
3. Define the generator model.
4. Define the discriminator model.
5. Train the two models alternately.
6. Let the model train until the generator and discriminator losses are
largely the same.
Let's execute each of the preceding steps in the following code:

--- Strana 599 ---
The following code is available as Handwritten_digit_generation_using_GAN.ipynb in
the Chapter12 folder in this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code
is moderately lengthy. We strongly recommend you to execute the notebook in GitHub to
reproduce results while you understand the steps to perform and explanation of various
code components from text.
1. Import the relevant packages and define the device:
!pip install -q torch_snippets
from torch_snippets import *
device = "cuda" if torch.cuda.is_available() else "cpu"
from torchvision.utils import make_grid
2. Import the MNIST data and define the dataloader with built-in data
transformation so that the input data is scaled to a mean of 0.5 and a
standard deviation of 0.5:
from torchvision.datasets import MNIST
from torchvision import transforms
transform = transforms.Compose([
                transforms.ToTensor(),
                transforms.Normalize(mean=(0.5,), std=(0.5,))
        ])
data_loader = torch.utils.data.DataLoader(MNIST('~/data', \
            train=True, download=True, transform=transform), \
            batch_size=128, shuffle=True, drop_last=True)
3. Define the Discriminator model class:
class Discriminator(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
        self.model = nn.Sequential( 
                                nn.Linear(784, 1024),
                                nn.LeakyReLU(0.2),
                                nn.Dropout(0.3),
                                nn.Linear(1024, 512),
                                nn.LeakyReLU(0.2),
                                nn.Dropout(0.3),
                                nn.Linear(512, 256),
                                nn.LeakyReLU(0.2),
                                nn.Dropout(0.3),
                                nn.Linear(256, 1),
                                nn.Sigmoid()
                            )
    def forward(self, x): return self.model(x)
Note that, in the preceding code, in place of ReLU, we have used
LeakyReLU as the activation function. A summary of the discriminator
network is as follows:

--- Strana 600 ---
!pip install torch_summary
from torchsummary import summary
discriminator = Discriminator().to(device)
summary(discriminator,torch.zeros(1,784))
The preceding code generates the following output:
4. Define the Generator model class:
class Generator(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
        self.model = nn.Sequential(
                                nn.Linear(100, 256),
                                nn.LeakyReLU(0.2),
                                nn.Linear(256, 512),
                                nn.LeakyReLU(0.2),
                                nn.Linear(512, 1024),
                                nn.LeakyReLU(0.2),
                                nn.Linear(1024, 784),

--- Strana 601 ---
                                nn.Tanh()
                            )
    def forward(self, x): return self.model(x)
Note that the generator takes a 100-dimensional input (which is of
random noise) and generates an image from the input. A summary of
the generator model is as follows:
generator = Generator().to(device)
summary(generator,torch.zeros(1,100))
The preceding code generates the following output:
5. Define a function to generate random noise and register it to the device:
def noise(size):
    n = torch.randn(size, 100)
    return n.to(device)
6. Define a function to train the discriminator:

--- Strana 602 ---
The discriminator training function (discriminator_train_step) takes
real data (real_data) and fake data (fake_data) as input:
def discriminator_train_step(real_data, fake_data):
Reset the gradients:
d_optimizer.zero_grad()
Predict on the real data (real_data) and calculate the loss (error_real)
before performing backpropagation on the loss value:
prediction_real = discriminator(real_data)
error_real = loss(prediction_real, \
                  torch.ones(len(real_data),1).to(device))
error_real.backward()
When we calculate the discriminator loss on real data, we expect the discriminator to
predict an output of 1. Hence, the discriminator loss on real data is calculated by
expecting the discriminator to predict output as 1 using torch.ones during discriminator
training.
Predict on the fake data (fake_data) and calculate the loss (error_fake)
before performing backpropagation on the loss value:
prediction_fake = discriminator(fake_data)
error_fake = loss(prediction_fake, \
            torch.zeros(len(fake_data),1).to(device))
error_fake.backward()
When we calculate the discriminator loss on fake data, we expect the discriminator to
predict an output of 0. Hence, the discriminator loss on fake data is calculated by
expecting the discriminator to predict output as 0 using torch.zeros during
discriminator training.
Update the weights and return the overall loss (summing up the loss
values of error_real on real_data and error_fake on fake_data):
d_optimizer.step()
return error_real + error_fake
7. Train the generator model:
Define the generator training function (generator_train_step) that takes
fake data (fake_data):
def generator_train_step(fake_data):

--- Strana 603 ---
Reset the gradients of the generator optimizer:
g_optimizer.zero_grad()
Predict the output of the discriminator on fake data (fake_data):
prediction = discriminator(fake_data)
Calculate the generator loss value by passing prediction and the
expected value as torch.ones since we want to fool the discriminator
to output a value of 1 when training the generator:
error = loss(prediction, \
             torch.ones(len(real_data),1).to(device))
Perform backpropagation, update the weights, and return the error:
error.backward()
g_optimizer.step()
return error
8. Define the model objects, the optimizer for each generator and
discriminator, and the loss function to optimize:
discriminator = Discriminator().to(device)
generator = Generator().to(device)
d_optimizer= optim.Adam(discriminator.parameters(),lr=0.0002)
g_optimizer = optim.Adam(generator.parameters(), lr=0.0002)
loss = nn.BCELoss()
num_epochs = 200
log = Report(num_epochs)
9. Run the models over increasing epochs:
Loop through 200 epochs (num_epochs) over the data_loader function
obtained in step 2:
for epoch in range(num_epochs):
    N = len(data_loader)
    for i, (images, _) in enumerate(data_loader):
Load real data (real_data) and fake data, where fake data (fake_data) is
obtained by passing noise (with a batch size of the number of data
points in real_data – len(real_data)) through the generator network.
Note that it is important to run fake_data.detach(), or else training will
not work. On detaching, we are creating a fresh copy of the tensor

--- Strana 604 ---
so that when error.backward() is called in discriminator_train_step, the
tensors associated with the generator (which create fake_data) are not
affected:
        real_data = images.view(len(images), -1).to(device)
        fake_data=generator(noise(len(real_data))).to(device)
        fake_data = fake_data.detach()
Train the discriminator using the discriminator_train_step function
defined in step 6:
        d_loss=discriminator_train_step(real_data, fake_data)
Now that we have trained the discriminator, let's train the generator
in this step. Generate a new set of fake images (fake_data) from noisy
data and train the generator using generator_train_step defined in step
6:
        fake_data=generator(noise(len(real_data))).to(device)
        g_loss = generator_train_step(fake_data)
Record the losses:
        log.record(epoch+(1+i)/N, d_loss=d_loss.item(), \
                   g_loss=g_loss.item(), end='\r')
    log.report_avgs(epoch+1)
log.plot_epochs(['d_loss', 'g_loss'])
The discriminator and generator losses over increasing epochs are as
follows:

--- Strana 605 ---
10. Visualize the fake data post-training:
z = torch.randn(64, 100).to(device)
sample_images = generator(z).data.cpu().view(64, 1, 28, 28)
grid = make_grid(sample_images, nrow=8, normalize=True)
show(grid.cpu().detach().permute(1,2,0), sz=5)
The preceding code generates the following output:

--- Strana 606 ---
From this, we can see that we can leverage GANs to generate images that
are realistic, but still with some scope for improvement. In the next section,
we will learn about using deep convolutional GANs to generate more
realistic images.
Using DCGANs to generate face
images
In the previous section, we learned about generating images using GANs.
However, we have already seen that Convolutional Neural Networks
(CNNs) perform better in the context of images when compared to vanilla
neural networks. In this section, we will learn about generating images using
Deep Convolutional Generative Adversarial Networks (DCGANs),
which use convolution and pooling operations in the model.
First, let's understand the technique we will leverage to generate an image
using a set of 100 random numbers. We will first convert noise into a shape

--- Strana 607 ---
of batch size x 100 x 1 x 1. The reason for appending additional channel
information in DCGANs and not doing it in the GAN section is that we will
leverage CNNs in this section, which requires inputs in the form of batch
size x channels x height x width.
Next, we convert the generated noise into an image by leveraging
 ConvTranspose2d.
As we learned in Chapter 9, Image Segmentation, ConvTranspose2d does the
opposite of a convolution operation, which is to take input with a smaller
feature map size (height x width) and upsample it to that of a larger size
using a predefined kernel size, stride, and padding. This way, we would
gradually convert a vector from a shape of batch size x 100 x 1 x 1 into a
shape of batch size x 3 x 64 x 64. With this, we have taken a random noise
vector of size 100 and converted it into an image of a face. 
With this understanding, let's now build a model to generate images of faces:
The following code is available as Face_generation_using_DCGAN.ipynb in the Chapter12 folder
in this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code contains URLs to
download data from and is moderately lengthy. We strongly recommend you to execute
the notebook in GitHub to reproduce results while you understand the steps to perform
and explanation of various code components from text.
1. Download and extract the face images:
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/rbajpdlh7efkdo1/male_female_face_images.zip
!unzip male_female_face_images.zip
A sample of the images is shown here:

--- Strana 608 ---
2. Import the relevant packages:
!pip install -q --upgrade torch_snippets
from torch_snippets import *
import torchvision
from torchvision import transforms
import torchvision.utils as vutils
import cv2, numpy as np, pandas as pd
device = "cuda" if torch.cuda.is_available() else "cpu"
3. Define the dataset and dataloader:
Ensure that we crop the images so that we retain only the faces and
discard additional details in the image. First, we will download the
cascade filter (more on cascade filters in OpenCV in Chapter
18, Using OpenCV Utilities for Image Analysis), which will help in
identifying faces within an image:
face_cascade = cv2.CascadeClassifier(cv2.data.haarcascades + \
                        'haarcascade_frontalface_default.xml')
Create a new folder and dump all the cropped face images into the
new folder:
!mkdir cropped_faces
images = Glob('/content/females/*.jpg') + \

--- Strana 609 ---
            Glob('/content/males/*.jpg')
for i in range(len(images)):
    img = read(images[i],1)
    gray = cv2.cvtColor(img, cv2.COLOR_BGR2GRAY)
    faces = face_cascade.detectMultiScale(gray, 1.3, 5)
    for (x,y,w,h) in faces:
        img2 = img[y:(y+h),x:(x+w),:]
    cv2.imwrite('cropped_faces/'+str(i)+'.jpg', \
                cv2.cvtColor(img2, cv2.COLOR_RGB2BGR))
A sample of the cropped faces is as follows:
Note that, by cropping and keeping faces only, we are retaining
only the information that we want to generate.
Specify the transformation to perform on each image:
transform=transforms.Compose([
                               transforms.Resize(64),
                               transforms.CenterCrop(64),
                               transforms.ToTensor(),
    transforms.Normalize((0.5, 0.5, 0.5), (0.5, 0.5, 0.5))])
Define the Faces dataset class:
class Faces(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, folder):
        super().__init__()
        self.folder = folder
        self.images = sorted(Glob(folder))

--- Strana 610 ---
    def __len__(self):
        return len(self.images)
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        image_path = self.images[ix]
        image = Image.open(image_path)
        image = transform(image)
        return image
Create the dataset object – ds:
ds = Faces(folder='cropped_faces/')
Define the dataloader class as follows:
dataloader = DataLoader(ds, batch_size=64, shuffle=True, \
                        num_workers=8)
4. Define weight initialization so that the weights have a smaller spread:
def weights_init(m):
    classname = m.__class__.__name__
    if classname.find('Conv') != -1:
        nn.init.normal_(m.weight.data, 0.0, 0.02)
    elif classname.find('BatchNorm') != -1:
        nn.init.normal_(m.weight.data, 1.0, 0.02)
        nn.init.constant_(m.bias.data, 0)
5. Define the Discriminator model class, which takes an image of a shape of
batch size x 3 x 64 x 64 and predicts whether it is real or fake:
class Discriminator(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        super(Discriminator, self).__init__()
        self.model = nn.Sequential(
                        nn.Conv2d(3,64,4,2,1,bias=False),
                        nn.LeakyReLU(0.2,inplace=True),
                        nn.Conv2d(64,64*2,4,2,1,bias=False),
                        nn.BatchNorm2d(64*2),
                        nn.LeakyReLU(0.2,inplace=True),
                        nn.Conv2d(64*2,64*4,4,2,1,bias=False),
                        nn.BatchNorm2d(64*4),
                        nn.LeakyReLU(0.2,inplace=True),
                        nn.Conv2d(64*4,64*8,4,2,1,bias=False),
                        nn.BatchNorm2d(64*8),
                        nn.LeakyReLU(0.2,inplace=True),
                        nn.Conv2d(64*8,1,4,1,0,bias=False),
                        nn.Sigmoid()
                    )
        self.apply(weights_init)    
def forward(self, input): 
    return self.model(input)
Obtain a summary of the defined model:

--- Strana 611 ---
!pip install torch_summary
from torchsummary import summary
discriminator = Discriminator().to(device)
summary(discriminator,torch.zeros(1,3,64,64));
The preceding code generates the following output:
6. Define the Generator model class that generates fake images from an
input of shape batch size x 100 x 1 x 1:
class Generator(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        super(Generator,self).__init__()
        self.model = nn.Sequential(
            nn.ConvTranspose2d(100,64*8,4,1,0,bias=False,),
            nn.BatchNorm2d(64*8),
            nn.ReLU(True),
            nn.ConvTranspose2d(64*8,64*4,4,2,1,bias=False),

--- Strana 612 ---
            nn.BatchNorm2d(64*4),
            nn.ReLU(True),
            nn.ConvTranspose2d( 64*4,64*2,4,2,1,bias=False),
            nn.BatchNorm2d(64*2),
            nn.ReLU(True),
            nn.ConvTranspose2d( 64*2,64,4,2,1,bias=False),
            nn.BatchNorm2d(64),
            nn.ReLU(True),
            nn.ConvTranspose2d( 64,3,4,2,1,bias=False),
            nn.Tanh()
        )
        self.apply(weights_init)
    def forward(self,input): return self.model(input)
Obtain a summary of the defined model:
generator = Generator().to(device)
summary(generator,torch.zeros(1,100,1,1))
The preceding code generates the following output:

--- Strana 613 ---
Note that we have leveraged ConvTranspose2d to gradually upsample
an array so that it closely resembles an image.
7. Define the functions to train the generator (generator_train_step) and the
discriminator (discriminator_train_step):
def discriminator_train_step(real_data, fake_data):
    d_optimizer.zero_grad()
    prediction_real = discriminator(real_data)
    error_real = loss(prediction_real.squeeze(), \
                      torch.ones(len(real_data)).to(device))
    error_real.backward()

--- Strana 614 ---
    prediction_fake = discriminator(fake_data)
    error_fake = loss(prediction_fake.squeeze(), \
                      torch.zeros(len(fake_data)).to(device))
    error_fake.backward()
    d_optimizer.step()
    return error_real + error_fake
def generator_train_step(fake_data):
    g_optimizer.zero_grad()
    prediction = discriminator(fake_data)
    error = loss(prediction.squeeze(), \
                 torch.ones(len(real_data)).to(device))
    error.backward()
    g_optimizer.step()
    return error
In the preceding code, we are performing a .squeeze operation on top
of the prediction as the output of the model has a shape of batch size
x 1 x 1 x 1 and it needs to be compared to a tensor that has a shape of
batch size x 1.
8. Create the generator and discriminator model objects, the optimizers,
and the loss function of the discriminator to be optimized:
discriminator = Discriminator().to(device)
generator = Generator().to(device)
loss = nn.BCELoss()
d_optimizer = optim.Adam(discriminator.parameters(), \
                         lr=0.0002, betas=(0.5, 0.999))
g_optimizer = optim.Adam(generator.parameters(), \
                         lr=0.0002, betas=(0.5, 0.999))
9. Run the models over increasing epochs:
Loop through 25 epochs over the dataloader function defined in step
3:
log = Report(25)
for epoch in range(25):
    N = len(dataloader)
    for i, images in enumerate(dataloader):
Load real data (real_data) and generate fake data (fake_data) by
passing through the generator network:
real_data = images.to(device)
fake_data = generator(torch.randn(len(real_data), \
                    100, 1, 1).to(device)).to(device)
fake_data = fake_data.detach()

--- Strana 615 ---
Note that the major difference between vanilla GANs and
DCGANs when generating real_data is that we did not have to
flatten real_data in the case of DCGANs as we are leveraging
CNNs. 
Train the discriminator using the discriminator_train_step function
defined in step 7:
d_loss=discriminator_train_step(real_data, fake_data)
Generate a new set of images (fake_data) from the noisy data
(torch.randn(len(real_data))) and train the generator using the
generator_train_step function defined in step 7:
fake_data = generator(torch.randn(len(real_data), \
                    100, 1, 1).to(device)).to(device)
g_loss = generator_train_step(fake_data)
Record the losses:
        log.record(epoch+(1+i)/N, d_loss=d_loss.item(), \
                   g_loss=g_loss.item(), end='\r')
    log.report_avgs(epoch+1)
log.plot_epochs(['d_loss','g_loss'])
The preceding code generates the following output:

--- Strana 616 ---
Note that in this setting, the variation in generator and discriminator
losses does not follow the pattern that we have seen in the case of
handwritten digit generation on account of the following:
1. We are dealing with bigger images (images that are 64 x 64 x 3 in shape
when compared to images of 28 x 28 x 1 shape, which we have seen in
the previous section).
2. Digits have fewer variations when compared to the features that are
present in the image of a face.
3. Information in handwritten digits is available in only a minority of
pixels when compared to the information in images of a face.
Once the training process is complete, generate a sample of images using the
following code:

--- Strana 617 ---
generator.eval()
noise = torch.randn(64, 100, 1, 1, device=device)
sample_images = generator(noise).detach().cpu()
grid = vutils.make_grid(sample_images,nrow=8,normalize=True)
show(grid.cpu().detach().permute(1,2,0), sz=10, \
     title='Generated images')
The preceding code generates the following set of images:

--- Strana 618 ---

--- Strana 619 ---
Note that while the generator generated images of a face from random noise,
the images are decent but still not sufficiently realistic. One potential reason
is that not all input images have the same face alignment. As an exercise, we
suggest you train the DCGAN only on those images where there is no tilted
face and the person is looking straight into the camera in the original image.
In addition, we suggest you try and contrast the generated images with high
discriminator scores to the ones with low discriminator scores.
In this section, we have learned about generating images of a face. However,
we cannot specify the generation of an image that is of interest to us. In the
next section, we will work toward generating images of a specific class.
Implementing conditional GANs
Imagine a scenario where we want to generate an image of a class of our
interest; for example, an image of a cat or an image of a dog, or an image of
a man with spectacles. How do we specify that we want to generate an
image of interest to us? Conditional GANs come to the rescue in this
scenario.
For now, let's assume that we have the images of male and female faces only
along with their corresponding labels. In this section, we will learn about
generating images of a specified class of interest from random noise.
The strategy we adopt is as follows:
1. Specify the label of the image we want to generate as a one-hot-
encoded version.
2. Pass the label through an embedding layer to generate a multi-
dimensional representation of each class.
3. Generate random noise and concatenate with the embedding layer
generated in the previous step.
4. Train the model just like we did in the previous sections, but this time
with the noise vector concatenated with the embedding of the class of
image we wish to generate.

--- Strana 620 ---
In the following code, we will code up the preceding strategy:
The following code is available as Face_generation_using_Conditional_GAN.ipynb in the
Chapter12 folder in this book's  GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt. We strongly
recommend you to execute the notebook in GitHub to reproduce results while you
understand the steps to perform and explanation of various code components from text.
1. Import the images and the relevant packages:
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/rbajpdlh7efkdo1/male_female_face_images.zip
!unzip male_female_face_images.zip
!pip install -q --upgrade torch_snippets
from torch_snippets import *
device = "cuda" if torch.cuda.is_available() else "cpu"
from torchvision.utils import make_grid
from torch_snippets import *
from PIL import Image
import torchvision
from torchvision import transforms
import torchvision.utils as vutils
2. Create the dataset and dataloader:
Store the male and female image paths:
female_images = Glob('/content/females/*.jpg')
male_images = Glob('/content/males/*.jpg')
Ensure that we crop the images so that we retain only faces and
discard additional details in an image. First, we will download the
cascade filter (more on cascade filters in OpenCV in Chapter
18, Using OpenCV Utilities for Image Analysis), which will help in
identifying faces within an image:
face_cascade = cv2.CascadeClassifier(cv2.data.haarcascades + \
                        'haarcascade_frontalface_default.xml')
Create two new folders (one corresponding to male and another for
female images) and dump all the cropped face images into the
respective folders:
!mkdir cropped_faces_females
!mkdir cropped_faces_males
def crop_images(folder):
    images = Glob(folder+'/*.jpg')
    for i in range(len(images)):
        img = read(female_images[i],1)
        gray = cv2.cvtColor(img, cv2.COLOR_BGR2GRAY)

--- Strana 621 ---
        faces = face_cascade.detectMultiScale(gray, 1.3, 5)
        for (x,y,w,h) in faces:
            img2 = img[y:(y+h),x:(x+w),:]
            cv2.imwrite('cropped_faces_'+folder+'/'+ \
                    str(i)+'.jpg',cv2.cvtColor(img2, \
                                    cv2.COLOR_RGB2BGR))
crop_images('females')
crop_images('males')
Specify the transformation to perform on each image:
transform=transforms.Compose([
                               transforms.Resize(64),
                               transforms.CenterCrop(64),
                               transforms.ToTensor(),
    transforms.Normalize((0.5, 0.5, 0.5), (0.5, 0.5, 0.5))
                           ])
Create the Faces dataset class that returns the image and the
corresponding gender of the person in it:
class Faces(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, folders):
        super().__init__()
        self.folderfemale = folders[0]
        self.foldermale = folders[1]
        self.images = sorted(Glob(self.folderfemale)) + \
                        sorted(Glob(self.foldermale))
    def __len__(self):
        return len(self.images)
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        image_path = self.images[ix]
        image = Image.open(image_path)
        image = transform(image)
        gender = np.where('female' in image_path,1,0)
        return image, torch.tensor(gender).long()
Define the ds dataset and dataloader:
ds = Faces(folders=['cropped_faces_females', \
                    'cropped_faces_males'])
dataloader = DataLoader(ds, batch_size=64, \
                        shuffle=True, num_workers=8)
3. Define the weight initialization method (just like we did in the DCGAN
section) so that we do not have a widespread variation across randomly
initialized weight values:
def weights_init(m):
    classname = m.__class__.__name__
    if classname.find('Conv') != -1:
        nn.init.normal_(m.weight.data, 0.0, 0.02)
    elif classname.find('BatchNorm') != -1:

--- Strana 622 ---
        nn.init.normal_(m.weight.data, 1.0, 0.02)
        nn.init.constant_(m.bias.data, 0)
4. Define the Discriminator model class:
Define the model architecture:
class Discriminator(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, emb_size=32):
        super(Discriminator, self).__init__()
        self.emb_size = 32
        self.label_embeddings = nn.Embedding(2, self.emb_size)
        self.model = nn.Sequential(
            nn.Conv2d(3,64,4,2,1,bias=False),
            nn.LeakyReLU(0.2,inplace=True),
            nn.Conv2d(64,64*2,4,2,1,bias=False),
            nn.BatchNorm2d(64*2),
            nn.LeakyReLU(0.2,inplace=True),
            nn.Conv2d(64*2,64*4,4,2,1,bias=False),
            nn.BatchNorm2d(64*4),
            nn.LeakyReLU(0.2,inplace=True),
            nn.Conv2d(64*4,64*8,4,2,1,bias=False),
            nn.BatchNorm2d(64*8),
            nn.LeakyReLU(0.2,inplace=True),
            nn.Conv2d(64*8,64,4,2,1,bias=False),
            nn.BatchNorm2d(64),
            nn.LeakyReLU(0.2,inplace=True),
            nn.Flatten()
        )
        self.model2 = nn.Sequential(
            nn.Linear(288,100),
            nn.LeakyReLU(0.2,inplace=True),
            nn.Linear(100,1),
            nn.Sigmoid()
        )
        self.apply(weights_init)
Note that in the model class, we have an additional
parameter, emb_size, present in conditional GANs and not in
DCGANs. emb_size represents the number of embeddings into
which we convert the input class label (the class of image we
want to generate), which is stored as label_embeddings. The reason
we convert the input class label from a one-hot-encoded version
to embeddings of a higher dimension is that a model has a higher
degree of freedom to learn and adjust to deal with different
classes.
While the model class, to a large extent, remains the same as
what we have seen in DCGANs, we are initializing another
model (model2) that does the classification exercise. There will be

--- Strana 623 ---
more about how the second model helps after we discuss the
forward method next. You will also understand the reason
why self.model2 has 288 values as input after you go through the
following forward method and the summary of the model:
Define the forward method that takes the image and the label of the
image as input:
def forward(self, input, labels):
    x = self.model(input)
    y = self.label_embeddings(labels)
    input = torch.cat([x, y], 1)
    final_output = self.model2(input)
    return final_output
In the forward method defined, we are fetching the output of the
first model (self.model(input)) and the output of passing labels
through label_embeddings and then concatenating the outputs. Next,
we are passing the concatenated outputs through the second
model (self.model2) we have defined earlier that fetches us the
discriminator output.
Obtain the summary of the defined model:
!pip install torch_summary
from torchsummary import summary
discriminator = Discriminator().to(device)
summary(discriminator,torch.zeros(32,3,64,64).to(device), \
        torch.zeros(32).long().to(device));
The preceding code generates the following output:

--- Strana 624 ---
Note that self.model2 takes an input of 288 values as the output of
self.model has 256 values per data point, which is then concatenated
with the 32 embedding values of the input class label, resulting in
256 + 32 = 288 input values to self.model2.
5. Define the Generator network class:
Define the __init__ method:

--- Strana 625 ---
class Generator(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, emb_size=32):
        super(Generator,self).__init__()
        self.emb_size = emb_size
        self.label_embeddings = nn.Embedding(2, self.emb_size)      
Note that in the preceding code, we are using nn.Embedding to convert
the 2D input (which is of classes) to a 32-dimensional vector
(self.emb_size):
        self.model = nn.Sequential(
            nn.ConvTranspose2d(100+self.emb_size,\
                               64*8,4,1,0,bias=False),
            nn.BatchNorm2d(64*8),
            nn.ReLU(True),
            nn.ConvTranspose2d(64*8,64*4,4,2,1,bias=False),
            nn.BatchNorm2d(64*4),
            nn.ReLU(True),
            nn.ConvTranspose2d(64*4,64*2,4,2,1,bias=False),
            nn.BatchNorm2d(64*2),
            nn.ReLU(True),
            nn.ConvTranspose2d(64*2,64,4,2,1,bias=False),
            nn.BatchNorm2d(64),
            nn.ReLU(True),
            nn.ConvTranspose2d(64,3,4,2,1,bias=False),
            nn.Tanh()
        )
Note that in the preceding code, we have leveraged
nn.ConvTranspose2d to upscale toward fetching an image as output.
Apply weight initialization:
        self.apply(weights_init)
Define the forward method that takes the noise values (input_noise)
and input label (labels) as input and generates the output of the
image:
def forward(self,input_noise,labels):
    label_embeddings = self.label_embeddings(labels) \
                        .view(len(labels), \
                              self.emb_size,1, 1)
    input = torch.cat([input_noise, label_embeddings], 1)
    return self.model(input)
Obtain a summary of the defined generator function:
generator = Generator().to(device)
summary(generator,torch.zeros(32,100,1,1).to(device), \
        torch.zeros(32).long().to(device));

--- Strana 626 ---
The preceding code generates the following output:
6. Define a function (noise) to generate random noise with 100 values and
register it to the device:
def noise(size):
    n = torch.randn(size, 100, 1, 1, device=device)
    return n.to(device)
7. Define the function to train the discriminator – discriminator_train_step:

--- Strana 627 ---
The discriminator takes four inputs—real images (real_data), real
labels (real_labels), fake images (fake_data), and fake labels
(fake_labels):
def discriminator_train_step(real_data, real_labels, \
                             fake_data, fake_labels):
    d_optimizer.zero_grad()
Here, we are resetting the gradient corresponding to the
discriminator:
Calculate the loss value corresponding to predictions on the real
data (prediction_real). The loss value output when real_data and
real_labels are passed through the discriminator network is compared
with the expected value of (torch.ones(len(real_data),1).to(device)) to
obtain error_real before performing backpropagation:
prediction_real = discriminator(real_data, real_labels)
error_real = loss(prediction_real, \
                  torch.ones(len(real_data),1).to(device))
error_real.backward()
Calculate the loss value corresponding to predictions on the fake
data (prediction_fake). The loss value output when
fake_data and fake_labels are passed through the discriminator network
is compared with the expected value
of (torch.zeros(len(fake_data),1).to(device)) to obtain error_fake before
performing backpropagation:
prediction_fake = discriminator(fake_data, fake_labels)
error_fake = loss(prediction_fake, \
                torch.zeros(len(fake_data),1).to(device))
error_fake.backward()
Update weights and return the loss values:
d_optimizer.step()    
return error_real + error_fake
8. Define the training steps for the generator where we pass the fake
images (fake_data) along with the fake labels (fake_labels) as input:
def generator_train_step(fake_data, fake_labels):
    g_optimizer.zero_grad()
    prediction = discriminator(fake_data, fake_labels)

--- Strana 628 ---
    error = loss(prediction, \
                 torch.ones(len(fake_data), 1).to(device))
    error.backward()
    g_optimizer.step()
    return error
Note that the generator_train_step function is similar
to discriminator_train_step, with the exception that this has an
expectation of torch.ones(len(fake_data),1).to(device)) as output in place
of zeros given that we are training the generator.
9. Define the generator and discriminator model objects, the loss optimizers,
and the loss function:
discriminator = Discriminator().to(device)
generator = Generator().to(device)
loss = nn.BCELoss()
d_optimizer = optim.Adam(discriminator.parameters(), \
                         lr=0.0002, betas=(0.5, 0.999))
g_optimizer = optim.Adam(generator.parameters(), \
                         lr=0.0002, betas=(0.5, 0.999))
fixed_noise = torch.randn(64, 100, 1, 1, device=device)
fixed_fake_labels = torch.LongTensor([0]* \
                                     (len(fixed_noise)//2) \
                    + [1]*(len(fixed_noise)//2)).to(device)
loss = nn.BCELoss()
n_epochs = 25
img_list = []
In the preceding code, while defining fixed_fake_labels, we are
specifying that half of the images correspond to one class (class 0)
and the rest to another class (class 1). Additionally, we are defining
fixed_noise, which will be used to generate images from random noise.
10. Train the model over increasing epochs (n_epochs):
Specify the length of dataloader:
log = Report(n_epochs)
for epoch in range(n_epochs):
    N = len(dataloader)
Loop through the batch of images along with their labels:
for bx, (images, labels) in enumerate(dataloader):
Specify real_data and real_labels:

--- Strana 629 ---
real_data, real_labels = images.to(device), \
                        labels.to(device)
Initialize fake_data and fake_labels:
fake_labels = torch.LongTensor(np.random.randint(0, \
                        2,len(real_data))).to(device)
fake_data=generator(noise(len(real_data)),fake_labels)
fake_data = fake_data.detach()
Train the discriminator using the discriminator_train_step function
defined in step 7 to calculate discriminator loss (d_loss):
d_loss = discriminator_train_step(real_data, \
                real_labels, fake_data, fake_labels)
Regenerate fake images (fake_data) and fake labels (fake_labels) and
train the generator using the generator_train_step function defined in
step 8 to calculate the generator loss (g_loss):
fake_labels = torch.LongTensor(np.random.randint(0, \
                        2,len(real_data))).to(device)
fake_data = generator(noise(len(real_data)), \
                      fake_labels).to(device)
g_loss = generator_train_step(fake_data, fake_labels)
Log the metrics as follows:
    pos = epoch + (1+bx)/N
    log.record(pos, d_loss=d_loss.detach(), \
               g_loss=g_loss.detach(), end='\r')
log.report_avgs(epoch+1)
Once we train the model, generate the male and female images:
with torch.no_grad():
    fake = generator(fixed_noise, \
                     fixed_fake_labels).detach().cpu()
    imgs = vutils.make_grid(fake, padding=2, \
                            normalize=True).permute(1,2,0)
    img_list.append(imgs)
    show(imgs, sz=10)
In the preceding code, we are passing the noise (fixed_noise) and
labels (fixed_fake_labels) to the generator to fetch the fake images,
which are as follows at the end of 25 epochs of training the
models:

--- Strana 630 ---

--- Strana 631 ---
From the preceding image, we can see that the first 32 images correspond to
male images, while the next 32 correspond to female images, which
substantiates the fact that the conditional GANs performed as expected.
Summary
In this chapter, we have learned about leveraging two different neural
networks to generate new images of handwritten digits using GANs. Next,
we generated realistic faces using DCGANs. Finally, we learned about
conditional GANs, which help us in generating images of a certain class.
Having generated images using different techniques, we could still see that
the generated images were not sufficiently realistic. Furthermore, while we
generated images by specifying the class of images we want to generate in
conditional GANs, we are still not in a position to perform image translation,
where we ask to replace one object in the image with another one, with
everything else left as is. In addition, we are yet to have an image generation
mechanism where the number of classes (styles) to generate is more
unsupervised.
In the next chapter, we will learn about generating images that are more
realistic using some of the latest variants of GANs. In addition, we will learn
about generating images of different styles in a more unsupervised manner.
Questions
1. What happens if the learning rate of generator and discriminator models
is high?
2. In a scenario where the generator and discriminator are very well
trained, what is the probability of a given image being real?
3. Why do we use convtranspose2d in generating images?
4. Why do we have embeddings with a high embedding size compared
with the number of classes in conditional GANs?
5. How can we generate images of men who have a beard?

--- Strana 632 ---
6. Why do we have Tanh activation in the last layer in the generator and
not ReLU or Sigmoid?
7. Why did we get realistic images even though we did not denormalize
the generated data?
8. What happens if we do not crop faces corresponding to images prior to
training the GAN?
9. Why do the weights of the discriminator not get updated when training
the generator (as the generator_train_step function involves the
discriminator network)?
10. Why do we fetch losses on both real and fake images while training the
discriminator, but only the loss on fake images while training the
generator?

--- Strana 633 ---
Advanced GANs to Manipulate
Images
In the previous chapter, we learned about leveraging Generative
Adversarial Networks (GANs) to generate realistic images. In this chapter,
we will learn about leveraging GANs to manipulate images. We will learn
about two variations of generating images using GANs – supervised and
unsupervised methods. In the supervised method, we will provide the input
and output pair combinations to generate images based on an input image,
which we will learn about in the Pix2Pix GAN. In the unsupervised method,
we will specify the input and output, however, we will not provide one-to-
one correspondence between the input and output, but expect the GAN to
learn the structure of the two classes, and convert an image from one class to
another, which we will learn about in CycleGAN.
Another class of unsupervised image manipulation involves generating
images from a latent space of random vectors and seeing how images change
as the latent vector values change, which we will learn about in the
Leveraging StyleGAN on custom images section. Finally, we will learn about
leveraging a pre-trained GAN – SRGAN, which helps in turning a low-
resolution image into an image with high resolution.
Specifically, we will learn about the following topics:
Leveraging the Pix2Pix GAN
Leveraging CycleGAN
Leveraging StyleGAN on custom images
Super-resolution GAN
Leveraging the Pix2Pix GAN
Imagine a scenario where we have pairs of images that are related to each
other (for example, an image of edges of an object as input and an actual

--- Strana 634 ---
image of the object as output). The challenge given is that we want to
generate an image given the input image of the edges of an object. In a
traditional setting, this would have been a simple mapping of input to output
and hence a supervised learning problem. However, imagine that you are
working with a creative team that is trying to come up with a fresh look for
products. In such a scenario, supervised learning does not help as much – as
it learns only from history. A GAN comes in handy here because it will
ensure that the generated image looks realistic enough and leaves room for
experimentation (as we are interested in checking whether the generated
image seems like one of the classes of interest or not).
In this section, we will learn about the architecture to generate the image of a
shoe from a hand-drawn doodle (contours) of a shoe. The strategy that we
will adopt to generate a realistic image from the doodle is as follows:
1. Fetch a lot of actual images and create corresponding contours using
standard cv2 edge detection techniques.
2. Sample colors from patches of the original image so that the generator
knows the colors to generate.
3. Build a UNet architecture that takes the contours with sample patch
colors as input and predicts the corresponding image – this is our
generator.
4. Build a discriminator architecture that takes an image and predicts
whether it is real or fake. 
5. Train the generator and discriminator together to a point where the
generator can generate images that fool the discriminator.
Let's code the strategy:
The following code is available as Pix2Pix_GAN.ipynb in the Chapter13 folder of this book's
GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code contains URLs to download data
from and is moderately lengthy. We strongly recommend you to execute the notebook in
GitHub to reproduce results while you understand the steps to perform and explanation
of various code components from text.
1. Import the dataset and install the relevant packages:
try:
    !wget https://bit.ly/3kiuN93
    !mv 3kiuN93 ShoeV2.zip
    !unzip ShoeV2.zip

--- Strana 635 ---
    !unzip ShoeV2_F/ShoeV2_photo.zip
except:
    !wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/g6b6gtvmdu0h77x/ShoeV2_photo.zip
!pip install torch_snippets
from torch_snippets import *
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
The preceding code downloads images of shoes. A sample of
downloaded images is as follows:
For our problem, we want to draw the shoe given a contour (edge)
and sample patch colors of the shoe. In the next step, we will fetch
the edge given an image of a shoe. This way, we can train a model
that reconstructs an image of a shoe given a contour and sample
patch colors of the shoe.
2. Define a function to fetch edges from the downloaded images:
def detect_edges(img):
    img_gray = cv2.cvtColor(img, cv2.COLOR_RGB2GRAY)
    img_gray = cv2.bilateralFilter(img_gray, 5, 50, 50)
    img_gray_edges = cv2.Canny(img_gray, 45, 100)
    # invert black/white
    img_gray_edges = cv2.bitwise_not(img_gray_edges) 
    img_edges=cv2.cvtColor(img_gray_edges,cv2.COLOR_GRAY2RGB)
    return img_edges

--- Strana 636 ---
In the preceding code, we are leveraging the various methods
available in the OpenCV package to fetch edges within an image
(there are more details on how the OpenCV methods work in Chapter
18, Using OpenCV Utilities for Image Analysis).
3. Define the image transformation pipeline (preprocess and normalize):
IMAGE_SIZE = 256
preprocess = T.Compose([
                    T.Lambda(lambda x: torch.Tensor(x.copy())\
                             .permute(2, 0, 1).to(device))
                ])
normalize = lambda x: (x - 127.5)/127.5
4. Define the dataset class (ShoesData). This dataset class returns the
original image and the image with edges. One additional detail we will
pass to the network is the patches of color that are present in randomly
chosen regions. This way, we are enabling the user to take a hand-
drawn contour image, sprinkle the required colors at different parts of
the image, and generate a new image. A sample input (the third image)
and output (the first image) are shown here (best viewed in color):
However, the input image we have in step 1 is just of the shoe (the
first image) – which we will use to extract the edges of the shoe (the
second image). Further, we will sprinkle color in the next step to
fetch the preceding image's input (the third image) – output (the first
image) combination.
In the following code, we will build the class that takes the contour
images, sprinkles colors, and returns the pair of color-sprinkled
images and the original shoe image (the image that generated
contours):

--- Strana 637 ---
Define the ShoesData class, the __init__ method, and the __len__ method:
class ShoesData(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, items):
        self.items = items
    def __len__(self): return len(self.items)
Define the __getitem__ method. In this method, we will process the input
image to fetch an image with edges and then sprinkle the image with
the colors present in the original image. Here, we are fetching the edges
of a given image:
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        f = self.items[ix]
        try: im = read(f, 1)
        except:
            blank = preprocess(Blank(IMAGE_SIZE, \
                                     IMAGE_SIZE, 3))
            return blank, blank
        edges = detect_edges(im)
Once we fetch the edges in the image, resize and normalize the image:
        im, edges = resize(im, IMAGE_SIZE), \
                    resize(edges, IMAGE_SIZE)
        im, edges = normalize(im), normalize(edges)
Sprinkle color on the edges image and preprocess the original and edges
images:
        self._draw_color_circles_on_src_img(edges, im)
        im, edges = preprocess(im), preprocess(edges)
        return edges, im
Define the functions to sprinkle color:
    def _draw_color_circles_on_src_img(self, img_src, \
                                       img_target):
        non_white_coords = self._get_non_white_coordinates\
                                    (img_target)
        for center_y, center_x in non_white_coords:
            self._draw_color_circle_on_src_img(img_src, \
                        img_target, center_y, center_x)
    def _get_non_white_coordinates(self, img):
        non_white_mask = np.sum(img, axis=-1) < 2.75
        non_white_y, non_white_x = np.nonzero(non_white_mask)
        # randomly sample non-white coordinates
        n_non_white = len(non_white_y)
        n_color_points = min(n_non_white, 300)
        idxs = np.random.choice(n_non_white, n_color_points, \
                                replace=False)

--- Strana 638 ---
        non_white_coords = list(zip(non_white_y[idxs], \
                                    non_white_x[idxs]))
        return non_white_coords
    def _draw_color_circle_on_src_img(self, img_src, \
                            img_target, center_y, center_x):
        assert img_src.shape == img_target.shape
        y0, y1, x0, x1 = self._get_color_point_bbox_coords(\
                                        center_y, center_x)
        color = np.mean(img_target[y0:y1, x0:x1],axis=(0, 1))
        img_src[y0:y1, x0:x1] = color
    def _get_color_point_bbox_coords(self, center_y,center_x):
        radius = 2
        y0 = max(0, center_y-radius+1)
        y1 = min(IMAGE_SIZE, center_y+radius)
        x0 = max(0, center_x-radius+1)
        x1 = min(IMAGE_SIZE, center_x+radius)
        return y0, y1, x0, x1
    def choose(self): return self[randint(len(self))]
5. Define the training and validation data's corresponding datasets and
dataloaders:
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
train_items, val_items = train_test_split(\
                        Glob('ShoeV2_photo/*.png'), \
                        test_size=0.2, random_state=2)
trn_ds, val_ds = ShoesData(train_items), ShoesData(val_items)
trn_dl = DataLoader(trn_ds, batch_size=32, shuffle=True)
val_dl = DataLoader(val_ds, batch_size=32, shuffle=True)
6. Define generator and discriminator architectures, which leverage the
weight initialization (weights_init_normal), UNetDown, and UNetUp architectures
just as we did in Chapter 9, Image Segmentation and Chapter 10,
Applications of Object Detection and Segmentation, to define the
GeneratorUNet and Discriminator architectures.
Initialize weights so that they follow a normal distribution:
def weights_init_normal(m):
    classname = m.__class__.__name__
    if classname.find("Conv") != -1:
        torch.nn.init.normal_(m.weight.data, 0.0, 0.02)
    elif classname.find("BatchNorm2d") != -1:
        torch.nn.init.normal_(m.weight.data, 1.0, 0.02)
        torch.nn.init.constant_(m.bias.data, 0.0)
Define the UNetwDown and UNetUp classes:

--- Strana 639 ---
class UNetDown(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, in_size, out_size, normalize=True, \
                 dropout=0.0):
        super(UNetDown, self).__init__()
        layers = [nn.Conv2d(in_size, out_size, 4, 2, 1, \
                            bias=False)]
        if normalize:
            layers.append(nn.InstanceNorm2d(out_size))
        layers.append(nn.LeakyReLU(0.2))
        if dropout:
            layers.append(nn.Dropout(dropout))
        self.model = nn.Sequential(*layers)
    def forward(self, x):
        return self.model(x)
class UNetUp(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, in_size, out_size, dropout=0.0):
        super(UNetUp, self).__init__()
        layers = [
            nn.ConvTranspose2d(in_size, out_size, 4, 2, 1, \
                               bias=False),
            nn.InstanceNorm2d(out_size),
            nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
        ]
        if dropout:
            layers.append(nn.Dropout(dropout))
        self.model = nn.Sequential(*layers)
    def forward(self, x, skip_input):
        x = self.model(x)
        x = torch.cat((x, skip_input), 1)
        return x
Define the GeneratorUNet class:
class GeneratorUNet(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, in_channels=3, out_channels=3):
        super(GeneratorUNet, self).__init__()
        self.down1 = UNetDown(in_channels,64,normalize=False)
        self.down2 = UNetDown(64, 128)
        self.down3 = UNetDown(128, 256)
        self.down4 = UNetDown(256, 512, dropout=0.5)
        self.down5 = UNetDown(512, 512, dropout=0.5)
        self.down6 = UNetDown(512, 512, dropout=0.5)
        self.down7 = UNetDown(512, 512, dropout=0.5)
        self.down8 = UNetDown(512, 512, normalize=False, \
                              dropout=0.5)
        self.up1 = UNetUp(512, 512, dropout=0.5)
        self.up2 = UNetUp(1024, 512, dropout=0.5)
        self.up3 = UNetUp(1024, 512, dropout=0.5)
        self.up4 = UNetUp(1024, 512, dropout=0.5)
        self.up5 = UNetUp(1024, 256)
        self.up6 = UNetUp(512, 128)
        self.up7 = UNetUp(256, 64)

--- Strana 640 ---
        self.final = nn.Sequential(
            nn.Upsample(scale_factor=2),
            nn.ZeroPad2d((1, 0, 1, 0)),
            nn.Conv2d(128, out_channels, 4, padding=1),
            nn.Tanh(),
        )
    def forward(self, x):
        d1 = self.down1(x)
        d2 = self.down2(d1)
        d3 = self.down3(d2)
        d4 = self.down4(d3)
        d5 = self.down5(d4)
        d6 = self.down6(d5)
        d7 = self.down7(d6)
        d8 = self.down8(d7)
        u1 = self.up1(d8, d7)
        u2 = self.up2(u1, d6)
        u3 = self.up3(u2, d5)
        u4 = self.up4(u3, d4)
        u5 = self.up5(u4, d3)
        u6 = self.up6(u5, d2)
        u7 = self.up7(u6, d1)
        return self.final(u7)
Define the Discriminator class:
class Discriminator(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, in_channels=3):
        super(Discriminator, self).__init__()
        def discriminator_block(in_filters, out_filters, \
                                normalization=True):
            """Returns downsampling layers of each 
            discriminator block"""
            layers = [nn.Conv2d(in_filters, out_filters, \
                                4, stride=2, padding=1)]
            if normalization:
                layers.append(nn.InstanceNorm2d(out_filters))
            layers.append(nn.LeakyReLU(0.2, inplace=True))
            return layers
        self.model = nn.Sequential(
            *discriminator_block(in_channels * 2, 64, \
                                 normalization=False),
            *discriminator_block(64, 128),
            *discriminator_block(128, 256),
            *discriminator_block(256, 512),
            nn.ZeroPad2d((1, 0, 1, 0)),
            nn.Conv2d(512, 1, 4, padding=1, bias=False)
        )
    def forward(self, img_A, img_B):
        img_input = torch.cat((img_A, img_B), 1)
        return self.model(img_input)
7. Define the generator and discriminator model objects and fetch
summaries:

--- Strana 641 ---
generator = GeneratorUNet().to(device)
discriminator = Discriminator().to(device)
!pip install torch_summary
from torchsummary import summary
print(summary(generator, torch.zeros(3, 3, IMAGE_SIZE, \
                            IMAGE_SIZE).to(device)))
print(summary(discriminator, torch.zeros(3, 3, IMAGE_SIZE, \
                IMAGE_SIZE).to(device), torch.zeros(3, 3, \
                IMAGE_SIZE, IMAGE_SIZE).to(device)))
The generator architecture summary is as follows:
The discriminator architecture summary is as follows:

--- Strana 642 ---
8. Define the function to train the discriminator (discriminator_train_step):
The discriminator function takes the source image (real_src), real target
(real_trg), and fake target (fake_trg) as input:
def discriminator_train_step(real_src, real_trg, fake_trg):
    d_optimizer.zero_grad()
Calculate the loss (error_real) by comparing the real target (real_trg) and
predicted values (real_src) of the target, where the expectation is that the
discriminator will predict the images as real (indicated by torch.ones),
and then perform back-propagation:
    prediction_real = discriminator(real_trg, real_src)
    error_real = criterion_GAN(prediction_real, \
                    torch.ones(len(real_src), 1, 16, 16)\
                               .to(device))
    error_real.backward()
Calculate the discriminator loss (error_fake) corresponding to fake
images (fake_trg) where the expectation is that the discriminator

--- Strana 643 ---
classifies the fake targets as fake images (indicated by torch.zeros) and
then perform back-propagation:
    prediction_fake = discriminator( real_src, \
                                    fake_trg.detach())
    error_fake = criterion_GAN(prediction_fake, \
                               torch.zeros(len(real_src), 1, \
                                           16, 16).to(device))
    error_fake.backward()
Perform the optimizer step and return the overall error and loss values
on predicted real and fake targets:
    d_optimizer.step()
    return error_real + error_fake
9. Define the function to train the generator (generator_train_step) where it
takes a fake target (fake_trg) and trains it towards a scenario where it has
a low chance of getting identified as fake when passed through the
discriminator:
def generator_train_step(real_src, fake_trg):
    g_optimizer.zero_grad()
    prediction = discriminator(fake_trg, real_src)
    loss_GAN = criterion_GAN(prediction, torch.ones(\
                            len(real_src), 1, 16, 16)\
                             .to(device))
    loss_pixel = criterion_pixelwise(fake_trg, real_trg)
    loss_G = loss_GAN + lambda_pixel * loss_pixel
    loss_G.backward()
    g_optimizer.step()
    return loss_G
Note that, in the preceding code, in addition to generator loss, we are
also fetching the pixel loss (loss_pixel) corresponding to the
difference between the generated and the real image of a given
contour:
Define a function to fetch a sample of predictions:
denorm = T.Normalize((-1, -1, -1), (2, 2, 2))
def sample_prediction():
    """Saves a generated sample from the validation set"""
    data = next(iter(val_dl))
    real_src, real_trg = data
    fake_trg = generator(real_src)
    img_sample = torch.cat([denorm(real_src[0]), \
                            denorm(fake_trg[0]), \

--- Strana 644 ---
                            denorm(real_trg[0])], -1)
    img_sample = img_sample.detach().cpu()\
                           .permute(1,2,0).numpy()
    show(img_sample, title='Source::Generated::GroundTruth', \
         sz=12)
10. Apply weight initialization (weights_init_normal) to the generator and
discriminator model objects:
generator.apply(weights_init_normal)
discriminator.apply(weights_init_normal)
11. Specify the loss criterion and optimization methods (criterion_GAN and
criterion_pixelwise):
criterion_GAN = torch.nn.MSELoss()
criterion_pixelwise = torch.nn.L1Loss()
lambda_pixel = 100
g_optimizer = torch.optim.Adam(generator.parameters(), \
                               lr=0.0002, betas=(0.5, 0.999))
d_optimizer = torch.optim.Adam(discriminator.parameters(), \
                               lr=0.0002, betas=(0.5, 0.999))
12. Train the model over 100 epochs:
epochs = 100
log = Report(epochs)
for epoch in range(epochs):
    N = len(trn_dl)
    for bx, batch in enumerate(trn_dl):
        real_src, real_trg = batch
        fake_trg = generator(real_src) 
        errD = discriminator_train_step(real_src, real_trg, \
                                        fake_trg)
        errG = generator_train_step(real_src, fake_trg)
        log.record(pos=epoch+(1+bx)/N, errD=errD.item(), \
                   errG=errG.item(), end='\r')
    [sample_prediction() for _ in range(2)]
13. Generate on a sample hand-drawn contour:
[sample_prediction() for _ in range(2)]
The preceding code generates the following output:

--- Strana 645 ---
Note that in the preceding output, we have generated images that have
similar colors as those of the original image.
In this section, we have learned about leveraging the contours of an image to
generate an image. However, this required us to provide the input and output
as pairs, which can be a tedious process sometimes. In the next section, we
will learn about unpaired image translation where the network would figure
the translation without us specifying the input and output mappings of
images.
Leveraging CycleGAN
Imagine a scenario where we ask you to perform image translation from one
class to another, but not give the input and the corresponding output images
to train the model. However, we give you the images of both classes in two
distinct folders. CycleGAN comes in handy in such a scenario.
In this section, we will learn how to train CycleGAN to convert the image of
an apple into the image of an orange and vice versa. The Cycle in
CycleGAN refers to the fact that we are translating (converting) an image
from one class to another and back to the original class.

--- Strana 646 ---
At a high level, we will have three separate loss values in this architecture
(more detail is provided here):
Discriminator loss: This ensures that the object class is modified while
training the model (as seen in the previous section).
Cycle loss: The loss of recycling an image from the generated image to
the original to ensure that the surrounding pixels are not changed.
Identity loss: The loss when an image of one class is passed through a
generator that is expected to convert an image of another class into the
class of the input image.
Here, we will understand at a high level the steps of building CycleGAN:
1. Import and preprocess the dataset
2. Build the generator and discriminator network UNet architectures
3. Define two generators:
G_AB: Generator that converts an image of class A to an image
of class B
G_BA: Generator that converts an image of class B to an image
of class A
4. Define Identity loss:
If you were to send an orange image to an orange-generator,
ideally if the generator has understood everything about
oranges, it should not change the image and should "generate"
the exact same image. We thus create an identity using this
knowledge. 
Identity loss should be minimal when an image of class A
(real_A) is passed through G_BA and compared with real_A.
Identity loss should be minimal when an image of class B
(real_B) is passed through G_AB and compared with real_B.
5. Define GAN loss:
Discriminator and generator loss for real_A and fake_A (fake_A
is obtained when real_B image is passed through G_BA)

--- Strana 647 ---
Discriminator and generator loss for real_B and fake_B (fake_B
is obtained when the real_A image is passed through G_AB)
6. Define re-cycle loss:
Consider a scenario where an image of an apple is to be
transformed by an orange-generator to generate a fake orange,
and the fake orange is to be transformed back to an apple by the
apple-generator. 
fake_B, which is the output when real_A is passed through
G_AB, should regenerate real_A when fake_B is passed
through G_BA.
fake_A, which is the output when real_B is passed through
G_BA, should regenerate real_B when fake_A is passed
through G_AB.
7. Optimize for the weighted loss of the three losses.
Now that we understand the steps, let's code them to convert apples to
oranges and vice versa, as follows:
The following code is available as CycleGAN.ipynb in the Chapter13 folder of this book's
GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code contains URLs to download data
from and is moderately lengthy. We strongly recommend you to execute the notebook in
GitHub to reproduce results while you understand the steps to perform and explanation
of various code components in text.
1. Import the relevant datasets and packages:
Download and extract the datasets:
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/2xltmolfbfharri/apples_oranges.zip
!unzip apples_oranges.zip
A sample of the images we will be working on:

--- Strana 648 ---
Note that there is no one-to-one correspondence between the apple
and orange images (unlike the contour to shoe generation use case
that we learned about in the Leveraging the Pix2Pix GAN section).
Import the required packages:
!pip install torch_snippets torch_summary
import itertools
from PIL import Image
from torch_snippets import *
from torchvision import transforms
from torchvision.utils import make_grid
from torchsummary import summary
2. Define the image transformation pipeline (transform):
IMAGE_SIZE = 256
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
transform = transforms.Compose([
    transforms.Resize(int(IMAGE_SIZE*1.33)),
    transforms.RandomCrop((IMAGE_SIZE,IMAGE_SIZE)),
    transforms.RandomHorizontalFlip(),
    transforms.ToTensor(),
    transforms.Normalize((0.5, 0.5, 0.5), (0.5, 0.5, 0.5)),
])
3. Define the dataset class (CycleGANDataset), which takes the apple and orange
folders (which are obtained after unzipping the downloaded dataset) as
input and provides a batch of apple and orange images:
class CycleGANDataset(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, apples, oranges):
        self.apples = Glob(apples)
        self.oranges = Glob(oranges)
    def __getitem__(self, ix):

--- Strana 649 ---
        apple = self.apples[ix % len(self.apples)]
        orange = choose(self.oranges)
        apple = Image.open(apple).convert('RGB')
        orange = Image.open(orange).convert('RGB')
        return apple, orange
    def __len__(self): return max(len(self.apples), \
                                  len(self.oranges))
    def choose(self): return self[randint(len(self))]
    def collate_fn(self, batch):
        srcs, trgs = list(zip(*batch))
        srcs=torch.cat([transform(img)[None] for img in srcs]\
                         , 0).to(device).float()
        trgs=torch.cat([transform(img)[None] for img in trgs]\
                         , 0).to(device).float()
        return srcs.to(device), trgs.to(device)
4. Define the training and validation datasets and data loaders:
trn_ds = CycleGANDataset('apples_train', 'oranges_train')
val_ds = CycleGANDataset('apples_test', 'oranges_test')
trn_dl = DataLoader(trn_ds, batch_size=1, shuffle=True, \
                    collate_fn=trn_ds.collate_fn)
val_dl = DataLoader(val_ds, batch_size=5, shuffle=True, \
                    collate_fn=val_ds.collate_fn)
5. Define the weight initialization method of the network
(weights_init_normal) as defined in previous sections:
def weights_init_normal(m):
    classname = m.__class__.__name__
    if classname.find("Conv") != -1:
        torch.nn.init.normal_(m.weight.data, 0.0, 0.02)
        if hasattr(m, "bias") and m.bias is not None:
            torch.nn.init.constant_(m.bias.data, 0.0)
    elif classname.find("BatchNorm2d") != -1:
        torch.nn.init.normal_(m.weight.data, 1.0, 0.02)
        torch.nn.init.constant_(m.bias.data, 0.0)
6. Define the residual block network (ResidualBlock), as in this instance, we
will leverage the ResNet:
class ResidualBlock(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, in_features):
        super(ResidualBlock, self).__init__()
        self.block = nn.Sequential(
            nn.ReflectionPad2d(1),
            nn.Conv2d(in_features, in_features, 3),
            nn.InstanceNorm2d(in_features),
            nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
            nn.ReflectionPad2d(1),
            nn.Conv2d(in_features, in_features, 3),
            nn.InstanceNorm2d(in_features),

--- Strana 650 ---
        )
    def forward(self, x):
        return x + self.block(x)
7. Define the generator network (GeneratorResNet):
class GeneratorResNet(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, num_residual_blocks=9):
        super(GeneratorResNet, self).__init__()
        out_features = 64
        channels = 3
        model = [
            nn.ReflectionPad2d(3),
            nn.Conv2d(channels, out_features, 7),
            nn.InstanceNorm2d(out_features),
            nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
        ]
        in_features = out_features
        # Downsampling
        for _ in range(2):
            out_features *= 2
            model += [
                nn.Conv2d(in_features, out_features, 3, \
                          stride=2, padding=1),
                nn.InstanceNorm2d(out_features),
                nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
            ]
            in_features = out_features
        # Residual blocks
        for _ in range(num_residual_blocks):
            model += [ResidualBlock(out_features)]
        # Upsampling
        for _ in range(2):
            out_features //= 2
            model += [
                nn.Upsample(scale_factor=2),
                nn.Conv2d(in_features, out_features, 3, \
                          stride=1, padding=1),
                nn.InstanceNorm2d(out_features),
                nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
            ]
            in_features = out_features
        # Output layer
        model += [nn.ReflectionPad2d(channels), \
                  nn.Conv2d(out_features, channels, 7), \
                  nn.Tanh()]
        self.model = nn.Sequential(*model)
        self.apply(weights_init_normal)
    def forward(self, x):
        return self.model(x)
8. Define the discriminator network (Discriminator):
class Discriminator(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):

--- Strana 651 ---
        super(Discriminator, self).__init__()
        channels, height, width = 3, IMAGE_SIZE, IMAGE_SIZE
        def discriminator_block(in_filters, out_filters, \
                                normalize=True):
            """Returns downsampling layers of each 
            discriminator block"""
            layers = [nn.Conv2d(in_filters, out_filters, \
                                4, stride=2, padding=1)]
            if normalize:
                layers.append(nn.InstanceNorm2d(out_filters))
            layers.append(nn.LeakyReLU(0.2, inplace=True))
            return layers
        self.model = nn.Sequential(
            *discriminator_block(channels,64,normalize=False),
            *discriminator_block(64, 128),
            *discriminator_block(128, 256),
            *discriminator_block(256, 512),
            nn.ZeroPad2d((1, 0, 1, 0)),
            nn.Conv2d(512, 1, 4, padding=1)
        )
        self.apply(weights_init_normal)
    def forward(self, img):
        return self.model(img)
Define the function to generate a sample of images – generate_sample:
@torch.no_grad()
def generate_sample():
    data = next(iter(val_dl))
    G_AB.eval()
    G_BA.eval()    
    real_A, real_B = data
    fake_B = G_AB(real_A)
    fake_A = G_BA(real_B)
    # Arange images along x-axis
    real_A = make_grid(real_A, nrow=5, normalize=True)
    real_B = make_grid(real_B, nrow=5, normalize=True)
    fake_A = make_grid(fake_A, nrow=5, normalize=True)
    fake_B = make_grid(fake_B, nrow=5, normalize=True)
    # Arange images along y-axis
    image_grid = torch.cat((real_A,fake_B,real_B,fake_A), 1)
    show(image_grid.detach().cpu().permute(1,2,0).numpy(), \
         sz=12)
9. Define the function to train the generator (generator_train_step):
The function takes the two generator models (G_AB and G_BA as Gs),
optimizer, and real images of the two classes – real_A and real_B – as
input:
def generator_train_step(Gs, optimizer, real_A, real_B):

--- Strana 652 ---
Specify the generators:
    G_AB, G_BA = Gs
Set gradients to zero for the optimizer:
    optimizer.zero_grad()
If you were to send an orange image to an orange-generator, ideally, if
the generator has understood everything about oranges, it should not
make any changes to the image and should "generate" the exact image.
We thus create an identity using this knowledge. The loss function
corresponding to criterion_identity will be given just prior to training the
model. Calculate the identity loss (loss_identity) for images of type A
(apples) and type B (oranges):
    loss_id_A = criterion_identity(G_BA(real_A), real_A)
    loss_id_B = criterion_identity(G_AB(real_B), real_B)
    loss_identity = (loss_id_A + loss_id_B) / 2
Calculate the GAN loss when the image is passed through the generator
and the generated image is expected to be as close to the other class as
possible (we have np.ones in this case when training the generator, as we
are passing the fake images of a class to the discriminator of the same
class):
    fake_B = G_AB(real_A)
    loss_GAN_AB = criterion_GAN(D_B(fake_B), \
                torch.Tensor(np.ones((len(real_A), 1, \
                                      16, 16))).to(device))
    fake_A = G_BA(real_B)
    loss_GAN_BA = criterion_GAN(D_A(fake_A), \
                torch.Tensor(np.ones((len(real_A), 1, \
                                      16, 16))).to(device))
    loss_GAN = (loss_GAN_AB + loss_GAN_BA) / 2
Calculate the cycle loss. Consider a scenario where an image of an
apple is to be transformed by an orange-generator to generate a fake
orange, and such a fake orange is to be transformed back to an apple by
the apple-generator. If the generators were perfect, this process should
give back the original image, which means the following cycle losses
should be zero:

--- Strana 653 ---
    recov_A = G_BA(fake_B)
    loss_cycle_A = criterion_cycle(recov_A, real_A)
    recov_B = G_AB(fake_A)
    loss_cycle_B = criterion_cycle(recov_B, real_B)
    loss_cycle = (loss_cycle_A + loss_cycle_B) / 2
Calculate the overall loss and perform backpropagation before returning
the calculated values:
    loss_G = loss_GAN + lambda_cyc * loss_cycle + \
            lambda_id * loss_identity
    loss_G.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    return loss_G, loss_identity, loss_GAN, loss_cycle, \
            loss_G, fake_A, fake_B
10. Define the function to train the discriminator (discriminator_train_step):
def discriminator_train_step(D, real_data, fake_data, \
                             optimizer):
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    loss_real = criterion_GAN(D(real_data), \
             torch.Tensor(np.ones((len(real_data), 1, \
                                   16, 16))).to(device))
    loss_fake = criterion_GAN(D(fake_data.detach()), \
             torch.Tensor(np.zeros((len(real_data), 1, \
                                   16, 16))).to(device))
    loss_D = (loss_real + loss_fake) / 2
    loss_D.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    return loss_D
11. Define the generator, discriminator objects, optimizers, and loss
functions:
G_AB = GeneratorResNet().to(device)
G_BA = GeneratorResNet().to(device)
D_A = Discriminator().to(device)
D_B = Discriminator().to(device)
criterion_GAN = torch.nn.MSELoss()
criterion_cycle = torch.nn.L1Loss()
criterion_identity = torch.nn.L1Loss()
optimizer_G = torch.optim.Adam(
    itertools.chain(G_AB.parameters(), G_BA.parameters()), \
    lr=0.0002, betas=(0.5, 0.999))
optimizer_D_A = torch.optim.Adam(D_A.parameters(), \
                        lr=0.0002, betas=(0.5, 0.999))
optimizer_D_B = torch.optim.Adam(D_B.parameters(), \
                        lr=0.0002, betas=(0.5, 0.999))
lambda_cyc, lambda_id = 10.0, 5.0

--- Strana 654 ---
12. Train the networks over increasing epochs:
n_epochs = 10
log = Report(n_epochs)
for epoch in range(n_epochs):
    N = len(trn_dl)
    for bx, batch in enumerate(trn_dl):
        real_A, real_B = batch
        loss_G, loss_identity, loss_GAN, loss_cycle, \
        loss_G, fake_A, fake_B = generator_train_step(\
                                  (G_AB,G_BA), optimizer_G, \
                                  real_A, real_B)
        loss_D_A = discriminator_train_step(D_A, real_A, \
                                    fake_A, optimizer_D_A)
        loss_D_B = discriminator_train_step(D_B, real_B, \
                                    fake_B, optimizer_D_B)
        loss_D = (loss_D_A + loss_D_B) / 2
        
        log.record(epoch+(1+bx)/N, loss_D=loss_D.item(), \
            loss_G=loss_G.item(), loss_GAN=loss_GAN.item(), \
            loss_cycle=loss_cycle.item(), \
           loss_identity=loss_identity.item(), end='\r')
        if bx%100==0: generate_sample()
    log.report_avgs(epoch+1)
13. Generate images once we train the models:
generate_sample()
The preceding code generates the following output:

--- Strana 655 ---
From the preceding, we can see that we are successfully able to convert
apples into oranges (the first two rows) and oranges into apples (the last two
rows).
So far, we have learned about paired image-to-image translation through the
Pix2Pix GAN and unpaired image-to-image translation through CycleGAN.
In the next section, we will learn about leveraging StyleGAN to convert an
image of one style into an image of another style.
Leveraging StyleGAN on custom
images
Let's first understand a few historical developments prior to the invention
of StyleGAN. As we know, generating fake faces from the previous chapter
involved the usage of GANs. The biggest problem that research faced was

--- Strana 656 ---
that the images that could be generated were small (typically 64 x 64). And
any effort to generate images of a larger size caused the generators or
discriminators to fall into local minima that would stop training and generate
gibberish. One of the major leaps in generating high-quality images involved
a research paper called ProGAN (short for Progressive GAN), which
involved a clever trick. 
The size of both the generator and discriminator is progressively increased.
In the first step, you create a generator and discriminator to generate 4 x 4
images from a latent vector. After this, additional convolution (and
upscaling) layers are added to the trained generator and discriminator, which
will be responsible for accepting the 4 x 4 images (which are generated from
latent vectors in step 1) and generating/discriminating 8 x 8 images. Once
this step is also done, new layers are created in the generator and
discriminator once again, to be trained to generate larger images. Step by
step (progressively), the image size is increased in this way. The logic being
that it is easier to add a new layer to an already well functioning network
than trying to learn all the layers from scratch. In this manner, images are
upscaled to a resolution of 1024 x 1024 pixels (image source: https://arxiv.or
g/pdf/1710.10196v3.pdf):

--- Strana 657 ---

--- Strana 658 ---
As much as it succeeded, it was fairly difficult to control individual aspects of the generated image
(such as gender and age), primarily because the network is getting exactly one input (in the preceding
image: Latent at the top of the network). StyleGAN addresses this scenario.
StyleGAN uses a similar training scheme where images are progressively
generated, but with an added set of latent inputs every time the network
grows. This means the network now accepts multiple latent vectors at
regular intervals of image size generated. Every latent given at a stage of
generation dictates the features (style) that are going to be generated at that
stage of that network. Let's discuss the working details of StyleGAN in more
detail here:

--- Strana 659 ---
In the preceding diagram, we can contrast the traditional way of generating
images and the style-based generator. In a traditional generator, there is only
one input. However, there is a mechanism in place within a style-based
generator. Let's understand the details here:
1. Create a random noise vector z of size 1 x 512.
2. Feed this to an auxiliary network called the style network (or mapping
network), which creates a tensor w of size 18 x 512.

--- Strana 660 ---
3. The generator (synthesis) network contains 18 convolution layers. Each
layer will accept the following as inputs:
The corresponding row of w ('A')
A random noise vector ('B')
The output from the previous layer
Note that noise ('B') is given only for regularization purposes. 
The preceding three combined will create a pipeline that takes in a 1 x 512
vector and creates a 1024 x 1024 image.
Let's now understand how each of the 18 1 x 512 vectors within the 18 x 512
vector that is generated from the mapping network contributes towards the
generation of an image. The 1 x 512 vector that is added at the first few
layers of the synthesis network contributes towards the overall pose and
large-scale features present in the image, such as pose, face shape, and so on,
(as they are responsible for generating the 4 x 4, 8 x 8 images, and so on –
which are the first few images that will be further enhanced in the later
layers). The vectors added in the middle layers correspond to small-scale
features such as hairstyle, eyes open/closed (as they are responsible for
generating the 16 x 16, 32 x 32, and 64 x 64 images). The vectors added in
the last few layers correspond to the color scheme and other microstructures
of the image. By the time we reach the last few layers, the image structure is
preserved, and the facial features are preserved but only image-level details
such as lighting conditions are changed.
In this section, we will leverage a pre-trained StyleGAN2 model to
customize our image of interest to have different styles.
For our objective, we will perform style transfer using the StyleGAN2
model. At a high level, here's how style-transfer on faces works (the
following will be clearer as you go through the results of the code):
Say the w1 style vector is used to generate face-1 and the w2 style
vector is used to generate face-2. Both of them are 18 x 512.
The first few of the 18 vectors in w2 (which are responsible for
generating images from 4 x 4 to 8 x 8 resolutions) are replaced with the

--- Strana 661 ---
corresponding vectors from w1. Then, we transfer very coarse features
such as the pose from face-1 to face-2.
If the later style vectors (say the third to the fifteenth of the 18 x 512 –
which are responsible for generating 64 x 64 to 256 x 256 dimensional
batch of images) are replaced in w2 with those from w1, then we
transfer features such as eyes, nose, and other facial mid-level features.
If the last few style vectors (which are responsible for generating 512 x
512 to 1024 x 1024 dimensional batch of images) are replaced, fine-
level features such as complexion and background (which don't affect
the overall face in a significant manner) are transferred.
With an understanding of how style transfer is done, let's now understand
how to perform style transfer using StyleGAN2 on custom images:
1. Take a custom image.
2. Align the custom image so that only the face region of the image is
stored.
3. Fetch the latent vector that is likely to generate the custom aligned
image.
4. Generate an image by passing a random latent vector (1 x 512) to the
mapping network.
By this step, we have two images – our custom aligned image and the image
generated by the StyleGAN2 network. We now want to transfer some of the
features of the custom image to the generated image and vice versa. 
Let's code up the preceding strategy.
Note that we are leveraging a pre-trained network fetched from a GitHub
repository, as training such a network takes days if not weeks:
You need a CUDA-enabled environment to run the following code. The following code is
available as Customizing_StyleGAN2.ipynb in the Chapter13 folder of this book's GitHub
repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code contains URLs to download data from and
is moderately lengthy. We strongly recommend you to execute the notebook in GitHub to
reproduce results while you understand the steps to perform and explanation of various
code components from text.

--- Strana 662 ---
1. Clone the repository, install the requirements, and fetch the pre-trained
weights:
import os
if not os.path.exists('pytorch_stylegan_encoder'):
    !git clone 
https://github.com/jacobhallberg/pytorch_stylegan_encoder.git
    %cd pytorch_stylegan_encoder
    !git submodule update --init --recursive
    !wget -q 
https://github.com/jacobhallberg/pytorch_stylegan_encoder/releases/download
/v1.0/trained_models.zip
    !unzip -q trained_models.zip
    !rm trained_models.zip
    !pip install -qU torch_snippets
    !mv trained_models/stylegan_ffhq.pth InterFaceGAN/models/pretrain
else:
    %cd pytorch_stylegan_encoder
    
from torch_snippets import *
2. Load the pre-trained generator and the synthesis network, mapping
the network's weights:
from InterFaceGAN.models.stylegan_generator import StyleGANGenerator
from models.latent_optimizer import PostSynthesisProcessing
synthesizer=StyleGANGenerator("stylegan_ffhq").model.synthesis
mapper = StyleGANGenerator("stylegan_ffhq").model.mapping
trunc = StyleGANGenerator("stylegan_ffhq").model.truncation
3. Define the function to generate an image from a random vector:
post_processing = PostSynthesisProcessing()
post_process = lambda image: post_processing(image)\
                .detach().cpu().numpy().astype(np.uint8)[0]
def latent2image(latent):
    img = post_process(synthesizer(latent))
    img = img.transpose(1,2,0)
    return img
4. Generate a random vector:
rand_latents = torch.randn(1,512).cuda()
In the preceding code, we are passing the random 1 x 512-
dimensional vector through mapping and truncation networks to
generate a vector that is 1 x 18 x 512. These 18 x 512 vectors are the
ones that dictate the style of the generated image.

--- Strana 663 ---
5. Generate an image from the random vector:
show(latent2image(trunc(mapper(rand_latents))), sz=5)
The preceding code generates the following output:
So far, we have generated an image. In the next few lines of code,
you will learn about performing style transfer between the preceding
generated image and an image of your choice.
6. Fetch a custom image (MyImage.jpg) and align it. Alignment is important
to generate proper latent vectors as all generated images in StyleGAN
have the face centered and features prominently visible:
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/lpw10qawsc5ipbn/MyImage.JPG\
 -O MyImage.jpg
!git clone https://github.com/Puzer/stylegan-encoder.git
!mkdir -p stylegan-encoder/raw_images
!mkdir -p stylegan-encoder/aligned_images
!mv MyImage.jpg stylegan-encoder/raw_images
7. Align the custom image:
!python stylegan-encoder/align_images.py \
stylegan-encoder/raw_images/ \
stylegan-encoder/aligned_images/
!mv stylegan-encoder/aligned_images/* ./MyImage.jpg

--- Strana 664 ---
8. Use the aligned image to generate latents that can reproduce the aligned
image perfectly. This is a process of identifying the latent vector
combination that minimizes the difference between the aligned image
and the image generated from the latent vector:
from PIL import Image
img = Image.open('MyImage.jpg')
show(np.array(img), sz=4, title='original')
!python encode_image.py ./MyImage.jpg\
 pred_dlatents_myImage.npy\
 --use_latent_finder true\
 --image_to_latent_path ./trained_models/image_to_latent.pt
pred_dlatents = np.load('pred_dlatents_myImage.npy')
pred_dlatent = torch.from_numpy(pred_dlatents).float().cuda()
pred_image = latent2image(pred_dlatent)
show(pred_image, sz=4, title='synthesized')
The preceding code generates the following output:

--- Strana 665 ---

--- Strana 666 ---
The Python script encode_image.py, at a high level, does the following:
1. 
Creates a random vector in 
 space.
2. 
Synthesizes an image with this vector.
3. 
Compares the synthesized image with the original input image
using VGG's perceptual loss (the same loss that was used in neural
style transfer).
4. 
Perform backpropagation on the 
 random vector to reduce this
loss for a fixed number of iterations.
5. 
The optimized 
 vector will now synthesize an image for which
VGG gives near-identical features as the input image, and hence the
synthesized image will look similar to the input image.
Now that we have the latent vectors that correspond to the image
of interest, let's perform style transfer between images in the next
step.
9. Perform style transfer:
As discussed, the core logic behind style transfer is actually the
transfer of parts of style tensors, that is, a subset of 18 of the 18 x 512
style tensors. Here, we will be transferring the first two rows (of the
18 x 512) in one case, 3-15 rows in one case, and 15-18 rows in one
case. Since each set of vectors is responsible for generating different
aspects of the image, each set of swapped vectors swap different
features in the image:
idxs_to_swap = slice(0,3)
my_latents=torch.Tensor(np.load('pred_dlatents_myImage.npy', \
                                  allow_pickle=True))
A, B = latent2image(my_latents.cuda()), 
latent2image(trunc(mapper(rand_latents)))
generated_image_latents = trunc(mapper(rand_latents))
x = my_latents.clone()
x[:,idxs_to_swap] = generated_image_latents[:,idxs_to_swap]
a = latent2image(x.float().cuda())
x = generated_image_latents.clone()
x[:,idxs_to_swap] = my_latents[:,idxs_to_swap]
b = latent2image(x.float().cuda())

--- Strana 667 ---
subplots([A,a,B,b], figsize=(7,8), nc=2, \
         suptitle='Transfer high level features')
The preceding code generates this:
Here's the output with idxs_to_swap as slice(4,15) and slice
(15,18) respectively.

--- Strana 668 ---
10. Next, we extrapolate a style vector such that the new vectors will only
change the smileyness of our custom image. For this, you need to
compute the right direction to move the   latent vector in. We
can achieve this by first creating a lot of fake images. An SVM
classifier is then used to train and find out if the persons within images
are smiling or not. This SVM hence creates a hyperplane that separates
smiling from non-smiling faces. The required direction to move   is
going to be normal to this hyperplane, which is presented as
stylegan_ffhq_smile_w_boundary.npy. Implementation details can be found in
the InterfaceGAN/edit.py code itself:
!python InterFaceGAN/edit.py\
 -m stylegan_ffhq\
 -o results_new_smile\
 -b InterFaceGAN/boundaries/stylegan_ffhq_smile_w_boundary.npy\
 -i pred_dlatents_myImage.npy\
 -s WP\
 --steps 20
generated_faces = glob.glob('results_new_smile/*.jpg')

--- Strana 669 ---
subplots([read(im,1) for im in sorted(generated_faces)], \
         figsize=(10,10))
Here's how the generated images look:
In summary, we have learned how the research has progressed in generating
very high-resolution images of faces using GANs. The trick is to increase
the complexity of both the generator and discriminator in steps of increasing
resolution so that at each step, both the models are decent at their tasks. We
learned how you are able to manipulate the style of a generated image by
ensuring features at every resolution are dictated by an independent input
called a style vector. We also learned how to manipulate styles of different
images by swapping styles from one image to another.
Now that we have learned about leveraging the pre-trained StyleGAN2
model to perform style transfer, in the next section, we will leverage the pre-
trained Super-resolution GAN model to generate images in high resolution.

--- Strana 670 ---
Super-resolution GAN
In the previous section, we saw a scenario where we leveraged the pre-
trained StyleGAN to generate images in a given style. In this section, we
will take it a step further and learn about leveraging pre-trained models to
perform image super-resolution. We will gain an understanding of the
architecture of the Super-resolution GAN model before implementing it on
images.
First, we will understand the reason why a GAN is a good solution for the
task of super-resolution. Imagine a scenario where you are given an image
and asked to increase its resolution. Intuitively, you would consider various
interpolation techniques to perform super-resolution. Here's a sample low-
resolution image along with the outputs of various techniques (image source:
https://arxiv.org/pdf/1609.04802.pdf):

--- Strana 671 ---

--- Strana 672 ---
From the preceding image, we can see that traditional interpolation
techniques such as bicubic interpolation do not help as much when
reconstructing the image from a low resolution (a 4X down-scaled image of
the original image).
While a super-resolution ResNet-based UNet can come in handy in such a
scenario, GANs can be more useful, as they simulate human perception. The
discriminator, given that it knows how a typical super-resolution image
looks, can detect a scenario where the generated image has properties that do
not necessarily look like an image with high resolution.
With the need for GANs for super-resolution established, let's learn about
and leverage the pre-trained model.
Architecture
While it is possible to code and train a super-resolution GAN from scratch,
we will leverage pre-trained models where we can. Hence, for this section,
we will leverage the model developed by Christian Ledig and team and
published in the paper titled Photo-Realistic Single Image Super-Resolution
Using a Generative Adversarial Network.
The architecture of SRGAN is as follows (image source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/
1609.04802.pdf):

--- Strana 673 ---

--- Strana 674 ---
From the preceding image, we see that the discriminator takes high-
resolution images as input to train a model that predicts whether an image is
a high-resolution or a low-resolution image. The generator network takes the
low-resolution image as input and comes up with a high-resolution image.
While training the model, both content loss and adversarial loss are
minimized. For a detailed understanding of the details of model training and
a comparison of results across the various techniques used to come up with a
high-resolution image, we recommend you go through the paper.
With a high-level understanding of how the model is built, we will code the
way to leverage a pre-trained SRGAN model to convert a low-resolution
image into a high-resolution image.
Coding SRGAN
Here are the steps for loading the pre-trained SRGAN and making our
predictions:
The following code is available as Image super resolution using SRGAN.ipynb in the Chapter 13
folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code contains
URLs to download data from. We strongly recommend you to execute the notebook in
GitHub to reproduce results while you understand the steps to perform and explanation
of various code components from text.
1. Import the relevant packages and the pre-trained model:
import os
if not os.path.exists('srgan.pth.tar'):
    !pip install -q torch_snippets
    !wget -q https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sizhky/a-PyTorch-Tutorial-
to-Super-Resolution/master/models.py -O models.py
    from pydrive.auth import GoogleAuth
    from pydrive.drive import GoogleDrive
    from google.colab import auth
    from oauth2client.client import GoogleCredentials
    auth.authenticate_user()
    gauth = GoogleAuth()
    gauth.credentials = \
            GoogleCredentials.get_application_default()
    drive = GoogleDrive(gauth)
    downloaded = drive.CreateFile({'id': \
                    '1_PJ1Uimbr0xrPjE8U3Q_bG7XycGgsbVo'})
    downloaded.GetContentFile('srgan.pth.tar')

--- Strana 675 ---
    from torch_snippets import *
    device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
2. Load the model:
model = torch.load('srgan.pth.tar', map_location='cpu')
['generator'].to(device)
model.eval()
3. Fetch the image to convert to a high resolution:
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/nmzwu68nrl9j0lf/Hema6.JPG
4. Define the functions to preprocess and postprocess the image:
preprocess = T.Compose([
                T.ToTensor(),
                T.Normalize([0.485, 0.456, 0.406],
                            [0.229, 0.224, 0.225]),
                T.Lambda(lambda x: x.to(device))
            ])
postprocess = T.Compose([
                T.Lambda(lambda x: (x.cpu().detach()+1)/2),
                T.ToPILImage()
            ])
5. Load the image and preprocess it:
image = readPIL('Hema6.JPG')
image.size
# (260,181)
image = image.resize((130,90))
im = preprocess(image)
Note that, in the preceding code, we have performed an additional
resize on the original image to further blur the image, but this is done
only for illustration – as the improvement is more visible when we
down-scale an image.
6. Pass the preprocessed image through the loaded model and postprocess the
output of the model:
sr = model(im[None])[0]
sr = postprocess(sr)
7. Plot the original and the high-resolution images:

--- Strana 676 ---
subplots([image, sr], nc=2, figsize=(10,10), \
         titles=['Original image','High resolution image'])
The preceding code results in the following output:
From the preceding image, we can see that the high-resolution image
captured details that were blurred in the original image.
Note that the contrast between the original and the high-resolution image
will be high if the original image is blurred. However, if the original image
is not blurred, the contrast will not be that high. We encourage you to work
with images of varying resolutions.
Summary
In this chapter, we have learned about generating images from a given
contour using the Pix2Pix GAN. Further, we learned about the various loss

--- Strana 677 ---
functions in CycleGAN to convert images of one class to another. Next, we
learned about how StyleGAN helps in generating realistic faces and also
copying the style from one image to another based on the way in which the
generator is trained. Finally, we learned about leveraging the pre-trained
SRGAN model to generate high-resolution images.
In the next chapter, we will switch to learning about training an image
classification model based on very few (typically less than 20) images.
Questions
1. Why do we need the Pix2Pix GAN where a supervised learning
algorithm such as UNet could have worked to generate images from
contours?
2. Why do we need to optimize for three different loss functions in
CycleGAN?
3. How do the tricks leveraged in ProgressiveGAN help in building
StyleGAN?
4. How do we identify latent vectors that correspond to a given custom
image?

--- Strana 678 ---
Section 4 - Combining Computer
Vision with Other Techniques
In this final section, we will learn about merging computer vision
techniques with techniques in other fields, such as NLP, reinforcement
learning, and tools such as OpenCV, to come up with new ways of solving
traditional problems.
This section comprises the following chapters:
Chapter 14, Training with Minimal Data Points
Chapter 15, Combining Computer Vision and NLP Techniques
Chapter 16, Combining Computer Vision and Reinforcement Learning
Chapter 17, Moving a Model to Production
Chapter 18, Using OpenCV Utilities for Image Analysis

--- Strana 679 ---
Training with Minimal Data Points
So far, in the previous chapters, we have learned about classifying images
where we have hundreds/ thousands of example images to train on per class.
In this chapter, we will learn about various techniques that will help in
classifying an image even when there are very few training examples per
class. We will start by training a model to predict a class, even though the
images corresponding to the class are not present during training. Next, we
will move on to a scenario where only a few images of the class we are
trying to predict are present during training. We will code Siamese networks,
which fall into the category of few-shot learning, and understand the
working details of relation networks and prototypical networks.
We will learn about the following topics in this chapter:
Implementing zero-shot learning
Implementing few-shot learning
Implementing zero-shot learning
Imagine a scenario where I ask you to predict the class of objects in an
image where you have not seen an image of the object class earlier. How
would you make predictions in such a scenario?
Intuitively, we resort to the attributes of the object in the image and then try
to identify the object that matches the most attributes.
In one such scenario where we have to come up with attributes automatically
(where the attributes are not given for training), we leverage word vectors.
Word vectors encompass semantic similarity among words. For example, all
animals would have similar word vectors and automobiles would have very
different word vector representations. While the generation of word vectors
is out of scope for this book, we will work on pre-trained word vectors. At a
very high level, words that have similar surrounding words (context) will
have similar vectors. Here's a sample t-SNE representation of word vectors:

--- Strana 680 ---
From the preceding sample, we can see that the word vectors of automobiles
fall to the left of the chart while the vectors corresponding to animals are on
the right. Further, similar animals also have similar vectors.
This gives us the intuition that words, just like images, also have vector
embeddings that help in obtaining similarity. 
In the next section, as we code zero-shot learning, we will leverage this
phenomenon to identify classes that are not seen by the model during
training. Essentially, we will learn about mapping image features to word
features, directly.
Coding zero-shot learning

--- Strana 681 ---
The high-level strategy we adopt while coding zero-shot learning is as
follows:
1. Import the dataset – which constitutes images and their corresponding
classes.
2. Fetch the word vectors corresponding to each class from pre-trained
word vector models.
3. Pass an image through a pre-trained image model such as VGG16.
4. We expect the network to predict the word vector corresponding to the
object in the image.
5. Once we've trained the model, we predict the word vector on new
images.
6. The class of word vector that is closest to the predicted word vector is
the class of the image.
Let's code the preceding strategy as follows:
The following code is available as Zero_shot_learning.ipynb in the Chapter14 folder in this
book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt Be sure to copy the URL from the
notebook in GitHub to avoid any issue while reproducing the results
1. Clone our GitHub repository that contains the dataset of this exercise
and also import the relevant packages:
!git clone https://github.com/sizhky/zero-shot-learning/
!pip install -Uq torch_snippets
%cd zero-shot-learning/src
import gzip, _pickle as cPickle
from torch_snippets import *
from sklearn.preprocessing import LabelEncoder, normalize
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
2. Define the paths to features data (DATAPATH) and also the word2vec
embeddings (WORD2VECPATH):
WORD2VECPATH = "../data/class_vectors.npy"
DATAPATH = "../data/zeroshot_data.pkl"
3. Extract the list of classes available:
with open('train_classes.txt', 'r') as infile:
    train_classes = [str.strip(line) for line in infile]
4. Load the feature vector data:

--- Strana 682 ---
with gzip.GzipFile(DATAPATH, 'rb') as infile:
    data = cPickle.load(infile)
5. Define the training data and the data that belongs to zero-shot classes
(the classes that are not present during training). Note that we will only
show the classes belonging to training classes and hide the zero-shot
model classes until the inference time:
training_data = [instance for instance in data if \
                instance[0] in train_classes]
zero_shot_data = [instance for instance in data if \
                instance[0] not in train_classes]
np.random.shuffle(training_data)
6. Fetch 300 training images per class for training and the remaining
training class images for validation:
train_size = 300 # per class
train_data, valid_data = [], []
for class_label in train_classes:
    ctr = 0
    for instance in training_data:
        if instance[0] == class_label:
            if ctr < train_size:
                train_data.append(instance)
                ctr+=1
            else:
                valid_data.append(instance)
7. Shuffle the training and validation data and fetch the vectors
corresponding to the classes into a dictionary – vectors:
np.random.shuffle(train_data)
np.random.shuffle(valid_data)
vectors = {i:j for i,j in np.load(WORD2VECPATH, \
                                allow_pickle=True)}
8. Fetch the image and word embedding features for training and
validation data:
train_data=[(feat,vectors[clss]) for clss,feat in train_data]
valid_data=[(feat,vectors[clss]) for clss,feat in valid_data]
9. Fetch the training, validation, and zero-shot classes:
train_clss = [clss for clss,feat in train_data]
valid_clss = [clss for clss,feat in valid_data]
zero_shot_clss = [clss for clss,feat in zero_shot_data]

--- Strana 683 ---
10. Define the input and output arrays of training data, validation data, and
zero-shot data:
x_train, y_train = zip(*train_data)
x_train, y_train = np.squeeze(np.asarray(x_train)), \
                    np.squeeze(np.asarray(y_train))
x_train = normalize(x_train, norm='l2')
x_valid, y_valid = zip(*valid_data)
x_valid, y_valid = np.squeeze(np.asarray(x_valid)), \
                    np.squeeze(np.asarray(y_valid))
x_valid = normalize(x_valid, norm='l2')
y_zsl, x_zsl = zip(*zero_shot_data)
x_zsl, y_zsl = np.squeeze(np.asarray(x_zsl)), \
                np.squeeze(np.asarray(y_zsl))
x_zsl = normalize(x_zsl, norm='l2')
11. Define the training and validation datasets and dataloaders:
from torch.utils.data import TensorDataset
trn_ds = TensorDataset(*[torch.Tensor(t).to(device) for t in \
                         [x_train, y_train]])
val_ds = TensorDataset(*[torch.Tensor(t).to(device) for t in \
                         [x_valid, y_valid]])
trn_dl = DataLoader(trn_ds, batch_size=32, shuffle=True)
val_dl = DataLoader(val_ds, batch_size=32, shuffle=False)
12. Build a model that takes the 4,096-dimensional feature as input and
predicts the 300-dimensional vector as output:
def build_model(): 
    return nn.Sequential(
        nn.Linear(4096, 1024), nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
        nn.BatchNorm1d(1024), nn.Dropout(0.8),
        nn.Linear(1024, 512), nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
        nn.BatchNorm1d(512), nn.Dropout(0.8),
        nn.Linear(512, 256), nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
        nn.BatchNorm1d(256), nn.Dropout(0.8),
        nn.Linear(256, 300)
    )
13. Define functions to train and validate on a batch of data:
def train_batch(model, data, optimizer, criterion):
    model.train()
    ims, labels = data
    _preds = model(ims)
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    loss = criterion(_preds, labels)
    loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    return loss.item()

--- Strana 684 ---
@torch.no_grad()
def validate_batch(model, data, criterion):
    model.eval()
    ims, labels = data
    _preds = model(ims)
    loss = criterion(_preds, labels)
    return loss.item()
14. Train the model over increasing epochs:
model = build_model().to(device)
criterion = nn.MSELoss()
optimizer = optim.Adam(model.parameters(), lr=1e-3)
n_epochs = 60
log = Report(n_epochs)
for ex in range(n_epochs):
    N = len(trn_dl)
    for bx, data in enumerate(trn_dl):
        loss = train_batch(model, data, optimizer, criterion)
        log.record(ex+(bx+1)/N, trn_loss=loss, end='\r')
    N = len(val_dl)
    for bx, data in enumerate(val_dl):
        loss = validate_batch(model, data, criterion)
        log.record(ex+(bx+1)/N, val_loss=loss, end='\r')        
    if not (ex+1)%10: log.report_avgs(ex+1)
log.plot_epochs(log=True)
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 685 ---
15. Predict on images (x_zsl) that contain the zero-shot classes (classes that
the model has not seen) and also fetch the actual features (vectors) and
classnames corresponding to all available classes:
pred_zsl = model(torch.Tensor(x_zsl).to(device)).cpu()\
                                    .detach().numpy()
class_vectors = sorted(np.load(WORD2VECPATH, \
                allow_pickle=True), key=lambda x: x[0])
classnames, vectors = zip(*class_vectors)
classnames = list(classnames)
vectors = np.array(vectors)

--- Strana 686 ---
16. Calculate the distance between each predicted vector and the vector
corresponding to the available classes and measure the number of zero-
shot classes present in the top five predictions:
dists = (pred_zsl[None] - vectors[:,None])
dists = (dists**2).sum(-1).T
best_classes = []
for item in dists:
    best_classes.append([classnames[j] for j in \
                         np.argsort(item)[:5]])
np.mean([i in J for i,J in zip(zero_shot_clss, best_classes)])
From the preceding, we can see that we can predict correctly for ~73% of
the images that contain an object whose class is not present during training,
in the top 5 predictions of the model. Note that the percentages of correctly
classified images will be 6%, 14%, and 40% for the top 1,2, and 3
predictions, respectively.
Now that we have seen a scenario on addressing predictions when no images
of a class are present in training through zero-shot classification, in the next
section, we will learn about building a model to predict the class of object in
the image if there are only a few examples of a class in the training set.
Implementing few-shot learning
Imagine a scenario where we give you only 10 images of a person and ask
you to identify whether a new image is of the same person. As humans, we
can classify such tasks with ease. However, the deep learning-based
algorithms that we have learned so far would require hundreds/ thousands of
labeled examples to classify accurately.
Multiple algorithms that fall in the meta-learning paradigm come in handy to
solve this scenario. In this section, we will learn about Siamese networks,
prototypical networks, and relation matching networks that work towards
solving the few-images problem.

--- Strana 687 ---
All three algorithms aim towards learning to compare two images to come
up with a score for how similar the images are.
Here's an example of what to expect during few-shot classification:
In the preceding representative datasets, we have shown a few images of
each class to the network while training and asked it to predict the class for a
new image based on the images. 
So far, we have been using pre-trained models to solve such problems.
However, such models are likely to overfit soon, given the tiny amount of
data that is available. 

--- Strana 688 ---
You can leverage multiple metrics, models, and optimization-based
architectures to solve such scenarios. In this chapter, we will learn about
metric-based architectures that come up with an optimal metric, either a
Euclidean distance or cosine similarity, to group similar images together and
then predict on a new image.
An N-shot k-class classification is where there are N images each for the k
classes to train the network.
In the next sections, we will understand the working details and code
Siamese networks, and also understand the working details of prototypical
and relation networks.
Building a Siamese network
Here, it is the network through which our two images (one reference image
and the query image) pass. Let's understand the working details of Siamese
networks and how they help in identifying images of the same person with
only a few images. First, let's go through the high-level overview of how
Siamese networks work:

--- Strana 689 ---

--- Strana 690 ---
We go through the following steps:
1. Pass an image through a convolution network.
2. Pass another image through the same neural network as in step 1.
3. Calculate the encodings (features) of both images.
4. Calculate the difference between the two feature vectors.
5. Pass the difference vector through sigmoid activation, which represents
whether the two images are similar.
The word Siamese in the preceding architecture relates to passing two
images through a twin network (where we duplicate the network to handle
two images) to fetch image encodings of each of the two images. Further, we
are comparing the encodings of two images to fetch a similarity score for the
two images. If the similarity score (or dissimilarity score) is beyond a
threshold, we consider the images to be of the same person.
With this strategy in place, let's code the Siamese network to predict the
class corresponding to the image – where the class of images occurred only a
few times in training data.
Coding Siamese networks
In this section, we will learn about coding Siamese networks to predict
whether the image of a person matches a reference image in our database.
The high-level strategy that we adopt is the following:
1. Fetch the dataset.
2. Create data in such a way that the dissimilarity of two images of the
same person will be low and dissimilarity is high when two images are
of different persons.
3. Build a convolutional neural network (CNN).
4. We expect the CNN to sum the loss values both corresponding to the
classification loss if the images are of the same person, and the distance
between the two images. We use contrastive loss for this exercise.
5. Train the model over increasing epochs.
Let's code the preceding strategy:

--- Strana 691 ---
The following code is available as Siamese_networks.ipynb in the Chapter14 folder in this
book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt Be sure to copy the URL from the
notebook in GitHub to avoid any issue while reproducing the results
1. Import the relevant packages and dataset:
!pip install torch_snippets
from torch_snippets import *
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/ua1rr8btkmpqjxh/face-detection.zip
!unzip face-detection.zip
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
The training data comprises 38 folders (each corresponding to a
different person) and each folder contains 10 sample images of the
person. The testing data comprises 3 folders of 3 different persons
with 10 images of each.
2. Define the dataset class – SiameseNetworkDataset:
The __init__ method takes the folder containing images and
the transformation to perform (transform) as inputs:
class SiameseNetworkDataset(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, folder, transform=None, \
                 should_invert=True):
        self.folder = folder
        self.items = Glob(f'{self.folder}/*/*') 
        self.transform = transform
Define the __getitem__ method:
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        itemA = self.items[ix]
        person = fname(parent(itemA))
        same_person = randint(2)
        if same_person:
            itemB = choose(Glob(f'{self.folder}/{person}/*', \
                                silent=True))
        else:
            while True:
                itemB = choose(self.items)
                if person != fname(parent(itemB)):
                    break
        imgA = read(itemA)
        imgB = read(itemB)
        if self.transform:
            imgA = self.transform(imgA)
            imgB = self.transform(imgB)
        return imgA, imgB, np.array([1-same_person])

--- Strana 692 ---
In the preceding code, we are fetching two images—
imgA and imgB, and returning the third output of 0 if it is the same
person and 1 if it isn't.
Define the __len__ method:
    def __len__(self):
        return len(self.items)
3. Define the transformations to perform, and prepare the dataset and data
loaders for the training and validation data:
from torchvision import transforms
trn_tfms = transforms.Compose([
            transforms.ToPILImage(),
            transforms.RandomHorizontalFlip(),
            transforms.RandomAffine(5, (0.01,0.2), \
                                    scale=(0.9,1.1)),
            transforms.Resize((100,100)),
            transforms.ToTensor(),
            transforms.Normalize((0.5), (0.5))
        ])
val_tfms = transforms.Compose([
            transforms.ToPILImage(),
            transforms.Resize((100,100)),
            transforms.ToTensor(),
            transforms.Normalize((0.5), (0.5))
        ])
trn_ds=SiameseNetworkDataset(folder="./data/faces/training/" \
                             , transform=trn_tfms)
val_ds=SiameseNetworkDataset(folder="./data/faces/testing/", \
                               transform=val_tfms)
trn_dl = DataLoader(trn_ds, shuffle=True, batch_size=64)
val_dl = DataLoader(val_ds, shuffle=False, batch_size=64)
4. Define the neural network architecture:
Define the convolution block (convBlock):
def convBlock(ni, no):
    return nn.Sequential(
        nn.Dropout(0.2),
        nn.Conv2d(ni, no, kernel_size=3, padding=1, \
                  padding_mode='reflect'),
        nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
        nn.BatchNorm2d(no),
    )

--- Strana 693 ---
Define the SiameseNetwork architecture that returns a five-dimensional
encoding given an input:
class SiameseNetwork(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        super(SiameseNetwork, self).__init__()
        self.features = nn.Sequential(
            convBlock(1,4),
            convBlock(4,8),
            convBlock(8,8),
            nn.Flatten(),
            nn.Linear(8*100*100, 500), nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
            nn.Linear(500, 500), nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
            nn.Linear(500, 5)
        )
    def forward(self, input1, input2):
        output1 = self.features(input1)
        output2 = self.features(input2)
        return output1, output2
5. Define the ContrastiveLoss function:
class ContrastiveLoss(torch.nn.Module):
    """
    Contrastive loss function.
Based on: http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/publis/pdf/hadsell-chopra-lecun-06.pdf
    """
    def __init__(self, margin=2.0):
        super(ContrastiveLoss, self).__init__()
        self.margin = margin
Note that the margin here is like the margin in SVM, where we want
the margin between datapoints belonging to two distinct classes to be
as high as possible.
Define the forward method:
    def forward(self, output1, output2, label):
        euclidean_distance = F.pairwise_distance(output1, \
                                output2, keepdim = True)
        loss_contrastive = torch.mean((1-label) * \
                        torch.pow(euclidean_distance, 2) + \
                        (label) * torch.pow(torch.clamp( \
                        self.margin - euclidean_distance, \
                                            min=0.0), 2))
        acc = ((euclidean_distance>0.6)==label).float().mean()
        return loss_contrastive, acc
In the preceding code, we are fetching encodings of two different
images –  output1 and output2 and calculating their eucledian_distance.

--- Strana 694 ---
Next, we are calculating the contrastive loss – loss_contrastive, which
penalizes for having a high Euclidean distance between images of the
same label, and also for having a low Euclidean distance
and self.margin for images of different labels.
6. Define the functions to train on a batch of data and validate:
def train_batch(model, data, optimizer, criterion):
    imgsA, imgsB, labels = [t.to(device) for t in data]
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    codesA, codesB = model(imgsA, imgsB)
    loss, acc = criterion(codesA, codesB, labels)
    loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    return loss.item(), acc.item()
@torch.no_grad()
def validate_batch(model, data, criterion):
    imgsA, imgsB, labels = [t.to(device) for t in data]
    codesA, codesB = model(imgsA, imgsB)
    loss, acc = criterion(codesA, codesB, labels)
    return loss.item(), acc.item()
7. Define the model, loss function, and optimizer:
model = SiameseNetwork().to(device)
criterion = ContrastiveLoss()
optimizer = optim.Adam(model.parameters(),lr = 0.001)
8. Train the model over increasing epochs:
n_epochs = 200
log = Report(n_epochs)
for epoch in range(n_epochs):
    N = len(trn_dl)
    for i, data in enumerate(trn_dl):
        loss, acc = train_batch(model, data, optimizer, \
                                criterion)
        log.record(epoch+(1+i)/N,trn_loss=loss,trn_acc=acc, \
                   end='\r')
    N = len(val_dl)
    for i, data in enumerate(val_dl):
        loss, acc = validate_batch(model, data, \
                                   criterion)
        log.record(epoch+(1+i)/N,val_loss=loss,val_acc=acc, \
                   end='\r')
    if (epoch+1)%20==0: log.report_avgs(epoch+1)
Plot the log of variation of training and validation loss accuracy
over increasing epochs:

--- Strana 695 ---
log.plot_epochs(['trn_loss','val_loss'])
log.plot_epochs(['trn_acc','val_acc'])
The preceding code results in the following output:
9. Test the model on new images. Note that the model has never seen
these new images. While testing, we will fetch a random test image and
compare it with other images in test data:
model.eval()
val_dl = DataLoader(val_ds,num_workers=6,batch_size=1, \
                    shuffle=True)
dataiter = iter(val_dl)
x0, _, _ = next(dataiter)
for i in range(2):
    _, x1, label2 = next(dataiter)
    concatenated = torch.cat((x0*0.5+0.5, x1*0.5+0.5),0)
    output1,output2 = model(x0.cuda(),x1.cuda())
    euclidean_distance = F.pairwise_distance(output1, output2)
    output = 'Same Face' if euclidean_distance.item() < 0.6 \
                        else 'Different'
    show(torchvision.utils.make_grid(concatenated), \
         title='Dissimilarity: {:.2f}\n{}'. \
         format(euclidean_distance.item(), output))
    plt.show()
The preceding results in the following output:

--- Strana 696 ---
From the preceding, we can see that we can recognize persons in the image
even when we have only a few images of a class.
In a realistic scenario (where you might use Siamese networks for attendance tracking),
it would be a good idea to crop the face from the complete image before we train the
model or infer it on new images.
Now that we understand how Siamese networks work, in the next sections,
we will learn about other metric-based techniques – prototypical and relation
networks.
Working details of prototypical networks

--- Strana 697 ---
A prototype is the representative of a certain class. Imagine a scenario where
we give you 10 images per class and there are 5 such classes. Prototypical
networks come up with a representative embedding (a prototype) for each
class by taking the average of embeddings of each image belonging to a
class.
Here, let's understand a practical scenario:
Imagine you have 5 distinct classes of images with the dataset containing 10
images per class. Further, we give you 5 images per class in training and are
testing your network's accuracy on the other 5 images. We will build our
network with one image from each class and a randomly chosen test image
as a query. Our task is to identify the class of the known image (training
image) that has the highest similarity with the query image (test image).
For facial recognition, the working details of prototypical networks are as
follows:
Choose N different persons at random for training.
Choose k samples corresponding to each person as the data points
available for training – this is our support set (images to compare).
Choose q samples corresponding to each person as the data points to
test – this is our query set (images to be compared):
 

--- Strana 698 ---
For now, we have chosen Nc classes, with Ns images in the support set and
Nq images in the query set:
Fetch the embeddings of each data point within the support set (training
images) and query set (test images) when passed through a CNN

--- Strana 699 ---
network, where we expect the CNN network to identify the index of the
training image that has the highest similarity with the query image.
Once you train the network, compute the prototype corresponding to
the support set (training images) embeddings:
The prototype is the mean embedding of all images belonging to
the same class:
In the preceding example illustration, there are three classes and each circle
represents the embeddings of the images belonging to the class. Each star
(prototype) is the average embedding across all the images (circles) present
in the image:
Calculate the Euclidean distance between query embeddings and
prototype embeddings:

--- Strana 700 ---
If there are 5 query images and 10 classes, we will have 50
Euclidean distances.
Perform a softmax on top of the Euclidean distances obtained earlier, to
identify the probability corresponding to different support classes.
Train a model to minimize the loss value in assigning the query image
to the right class. Further, while looping over the dataset, choose a fresh
set of persons at random in the next iteration.
By the end of the iterations, the model will have learned to identify the class
a query image belongs to – given a few support-set images and query
images.
Working details of relation networks
A relation network is fairly similar to a Siamese network, except that the
metric we optimize for is not the L1 distance between embeddings but a
relation score. Let's understand the working details of relation networks
using the following diagram:

--- Strana 701 ---

--- Strana 702 ---
In the preceding diagram, the pictures on the left are the support set for five
classes and the dog image at the bottom is the query image:
Pass both the support and query images through an embedding module,
which provides embeddings for the input image.
Concatenate the feature maps of the support images with the feature
maps of the query image.
Pass the concatenated features through a CNN module to predict the
relation score.
The class with the highest relation score is the predicted class of the query
image.
With this, we have understood the different ways in which few-shot learning
algorithms work. We compare a given query image with a support set of
images to come up with the class of objects present in the support set that
has the highest similarity with the query image.
Summary
In this chapter, we have learned about leveraging word vectors to come up
with a way to address a scenario where the classes we want to predict are not
present during training. Further, we learned about Siamese networks, which
learn a distance function between two images to identify images of a similar
person. Finally, we learned about prototypical networks and relation
networks and how they learn to perform few-shot image classification.
In the next chapter, we will learn about combining computer vision and
natural language processing-based techniques to come up with ways to solve
annotating an image, detecting objects in an image, and handwriting
transcription.
Questions

--- Strana 703 ---
1. How are pre-trained word vectors obtained?
2. How do we map from an image feature embedding to a word
embedding in zero-shot learning?
3. Why is the Siamese network called so?
4. How does the Siamese network come up with the similarity between
two images?

--- Strana 704 ---
Combining Computer Vision and NLP
Techniques
In the previous chapter, we learned about leveraging novel architectures when there
are a minimal number of data points. In this chapter, we will switch gears and learn
about how a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) can be used in conjunction with
algorithms in the broad family of Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs), which are
heavily used (as of the time of writing this book) in Natural Language Processing
(NLP) to develop solutions that leverage both computer vision and NLP.
To understand combining CNNs and RNNs, we will first learn about how RNNs work
and their variants – primarily Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) – to understand
how they are applied to predict annotations given an image as input. After that, we
will learn about another important loss function, called the Connectionist Temporal
Classification (CTC) loss function, before applying it in conjunction with a CNN and
RNN to perform the transcription of handwritten images. Finally, we will learn about
and leverage transformers to perform object detection using the Detection with
Transformers (DETR) architecture.
By the end of this chapter, you will have learned about the following topics:
Introducing RNNs
Introducing LSTM architecture
Implementing image captioning
Transcribing handwritten images
Object detection using DETR
Introducing RNNs
An RNN can have multiple architectures. Some of the possible ways of architecting
an RNN are as follows:

--- Strana 705 ---
In the preceding diagram, the boxes at the bottom are the input, followed by the
hidden layer (the middle boxes), and then the boxes at the top are the output layer. The

--- Strana 706 ---
one-to-one architecture is a typical neural network with a hidden layer between the
input and output layers. Examples of different architectures are as follows:
One-to-many: The input is an image and the output is a caption of the image.
Many-to-one: The input is a movie review (multiple words in input) and the
output is the sentiment associated with the review.
Many-to-many: Machine translation of a sentence in one language to a sentence
in another language.
The idea behind the need for RNN architecture
RNNs are useful when we want to predict the next event given a sequence of events.
An example of that could be to predict the word that comes after this: This is an ___.
Let's say that in reality, the sentence is This is an example.
Traditional text-mining techniques would solve the problem in the following way:
1. Encode each word while having an additional index for potential new words:
This: {1,0,0,0}
is: {0,1,0,0}
an: {0,0,1,0}
2. Encode the phrase This is an:
This is an: {1,1,1,0}
3. Create the training dataset:
Input --> {1,1,1,0}
Output --> {0,0,0,1}
4. Build a model with the given input and output combination:
One of the major drawbacks of the model is that the input representation does
not change in the input sentence regardless of if it is in the form of this is
an, an is this, or this an is.

--- Strana 707 ---
However, intuitively, we know that each of the preceding sentences is different
and cannot be represented by the same structure mathematically. This calls for
having a different architecture, which looks as follows:
In the preceding architecture, each of the individual words from the sentence enters an
individual box in the input boxes. This ensures that we preserve the structure of the
input sentence; for example, this enters the first box, is enters the second box, and an
enters the third box. The output box at the top will be the output – that is, example.
With an understanding of the need for RNN architecture in place, in the next section,
let's learn about how to interpret the outputs of RNNs.
Exploring the structure of an RNN
You can think of an RNN as a mechanism to hold memory – where the hidden layer
contains the memory. The unfolded version of an RNN is as follows:

--- Strana 708 ---
The network on right is an unrolled version of the network on the left. The network on
the right takes one input in each time step and extracts the output at each time step.

--- Strana 709 ---
Note that while predicting the output of the third time step, we are incorporating
values from the first two time steps through the hidden layer, which is connecting the
values across time steps.
Let's explore the preceding diagram:
The u weight represents the weights that connect the input layer to the hidden
layer.
The w weight represents the hidden layer to the hidden layer connection.
The v weight represents the hidden layer to the output layer connection.
The output in a given time step depends on both the input in the current time step and
the hidden layer value from the previous time step. With the introduction of the
hidden layer of the previous time step being the input, along with the current time
step's input, we are obtaining information from the previous time steps. This way, we
are creating a pipeline of connections that enable memory storage.
Why store memory?
There is a need to store memory as, in the preceding example, or even in text
generation in general, the next word does not depend only on the preceding word, but
also on the context of the words preceding the word to predict.
Given that we are looking at the preceding words, there should be a way to keep them
in memory so that we can predict the next word more accurately.
We should also have the memory in order; more often than not, the recent words are
more useful in predicting the next word than the words that are further away from the
word to predict.
A traditional RNN that takes multiple time steps into account for giving predictions
can be visualized as follows:

--- Strana 710 ---
Notice that as the time step increases, the impact of the input present at a much earlier
time step (time step 1) would be lower on the output at a much later time step (time
step 7). An example of this can be seen here (for a moment, let's ignore the bias term
and assume that the hidden layer input at time step 1 is 0 and we are predicting the
value of the hidden layer at time step 5 – h5):
You can see that as the time step increases, the value of the hidden layer (h5) highly
depends on X1 if U>1; however, it is much less dependent on X1 if U<1.
The dependency on the U matrix can also result in the hidden layer (h5) value being
very small, hence resulting in a vanishing gradient when the value of U is very small,
and can cause exploding gradients when the value of U is very high.
The preceding phenomenon results in an issue when there is a long-term dependency
on predicting the next word. To solve this problem, we'll use the LSTM architecture.
Introducing LSTM architecture

--- Strana 711 ---
In the previous section, we learned about how a traditional RNN faces a vanishing or
exploding gradient problem resulting in it not being able to accommodate long-term
memory. In this section, we will learn about how to leverage LSTM to get around this
problem.
In order to further understand the scenario with an example, let's consider the
following sentence:
I am from England. I speak __.
In the preceding sentence, intuitively, we know that the majority of the people from
England speak English. The blank value to be filled (English) is obtained from the
fact that the person is from England. While in this scenario we have the signaling
word (England) closer to the blank value, in a realistic scenario, we might find that the
signal word is far away from the blank space (the word we are trying to predict).
When the distance between the signal word and blank value is large, the predictions
through traditional RNNs might be wrong because of the vanishing or exploding
gradient phenomenon. LSTM addresses this scenario – which we will learn about in
the following section.
The working details of LSTM
A standard LSTM architecture is as follows:

--- Strana 712 ---
In the preceding diagram, you can see that while input X and output h remain similar
to what we saw in the Exploring the structure of an RNN section, the computations
that happen between the input and output are different in LSTM. Let's understand the
various activations that happen between the input and output:

--- Strana 713 ---
In the preceding diagram, we can observe the following:
X and h represent the input and output at time step t.
C represents the cell state. This potentially helps in storing long-term memory.
Ct-1 is the cell state that is transferred from the previous time step.
ht-1 represents the output of the previous time step.
ft represents activations that help with forgetting certain information.
it represents the transformation corresponding to the input combined with the
previous time step's output (ht-1).
The content that needs to be forgotten, ft, is obtained as follows:
Note that Wxf and Whf represent the weights associated with the input and the previous
hidden layer, respectively.
The cell state is updated by multiplying the cell state from the previous time step, Ct-1,
by the input content that helps in forgetting: ft.
The updated cell state is as follows:

--- Strana 714 ---
Note that in the preceding step, we are performing element-to-element multiplication
between Ct-1 and ft to obtain the modified cell state, Ct.
To understand how the preceding operations help, let's go through the input
sentence: I am from England. I speak __. 
Once we fill the blank with English, we no longer require the information that the person is from
England and hence should erase it from memory. The combination of the cell state and forget gate
helps in achieving that.
In the next step, we will include additional information from the current time step to
the cell state as well as to the output. The modified cell state (after forgetting what is
to be forgotten) is updated by the input activation (which is based on the current time
step's input and also the previous time step's output) and the modulation
gate, gt (which helps in identifying the amount by which the cell state is to be
updated).
The input activation is calculated as follows:
Note that Wxi and Whi represent the weights associated with the input and the previous
hidden layer, respectively.
The modified gate's activation is calculated as follows:
Note that Wxg and Whg represent the weights associated with the input and the
previous hidden layer, respectively.
The modified gate can help in isolating the cell state values that are to be updated and not the rest, as
well as identifying the magnitude of update that is to be done.
The modified cell state, Ct, which will be passed to the next time step, is now as
follows:
Finally, we multiply the activated updated cell state (tanh(Ct)) by the activated output
values, Ot, to obtain the final output, ht, at time step t:

--- Strana 715 ---
This way, we can leverage the various gates present in an LSTM to selectively
memorize overly long time steps.
Implementing LSTM in PyTorch
In a typical text-related exercise, each word is an input to LSTM – one word per time
step. To have LSTM work, we perform the following two steps:
1. Convert each word into an embedding vector.
2. Pass the embedding vector corresponding to the relevant word in the time step as
input to LSTM.
Let's understand the reason why we have to convert an input word into an embedding
vector. If there are 100K unique words in our vocabulary, we would have to one-hot
encode them prior to passing them to the network. However, creating a one-hot-
encoded vector for each word loses the semantic meaning of the word – for example,
the words like and enjoy are similar and should have similar vectors. In order to
address such a scenario, we leverage word embeddings, which help in learning word
vector representation automatically (as they are a part of the network). Word
embeddings are fetched as follows:
embed = nn.Embedding(vocab_size, embed_size)
In the preceding code, the nn.Embedding method takes vocab_size number of dimensions as
input and returns embed_size dimensions of output. This way, if the vocabulary size is
100K and the embedding size is 128, each of the 100K words is represented as a 128-
dimensional vector. One benefit of performing this exercise is that, in general, words
that are similar would have similar embeddings.
Next, we pass the word embeddings through LSTM. LSTM is implemented in
PyTorch using the nn.LSTM method, as follows:
hidden_state, cell_state = nn.LSTM(embed_size, \
                                   hidden_size, num_layers)
In the preceding code, embed_size represents the embedding size corresponding to each
time step, hidden_size corresponds to the dimension of hidden layer output, and
num_layers represents the number of times LSTM is stacked on top of each other.

--- Strana 716 ---
Furthermore, the nn.LSTM method returns both the hidden state values and the cell state
values.
Now that we understand the working details of LSTM and RNNs, let's understand
how to leverage them in conjunction with a CNN when predicting captions given an
image in the next section.
Implementing image captioning
Image captioning means generating a caption given an image. In this section, we will
first learn about the preprocessing to be done to build an LSTM that can generate a
text caption given an image, and then will learn how to combine a CNN and LSTM to
perform image captioning. Before we learn about building a system that generates
captions, let's understand how a sample input and output might look:
In the preceding example, the image is the input and the expected output is the caption
of the image – In this image I can see few candles. The background is in black
color.
The strategy that we will adopt to solve this problem is as follows:
1. Preprocess the output (ground truth annotations/captions) so that each unique
word is represented by a unique ID.
2. Given that the output sentences can be of any length, let's assign a start and end
token so that the model knows when to stop generating predictions. Furthermore,
ensure that all input sentences are padded so that all inputs have the same length.
3. Pass the input image through a pre-trained model, such as VGG16, ResNet-18,
and so on, to fetch features prior to the flattening layer.
4. Use the feature map of the image in conjunction with the text obtained in the
previous step (the start token if it is the first word that we are predicting) to

--- Strana 717 ---
predict a word.
5. Repeat the preceding step until we obtain the end token.
Now that we understand what is to be done at a high level, let's implement the
preceding steps in code in the next section.
Image captioning in code
Let's execute the strategy designed in the previous section in code:
The following code is available as Image_captioning.ipynb in the Chapter15 folder of this book's GitHub
repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code contains URLs to download data from and is
moderately lengthy. We strongly recommend you to execute the notebook in GitHub to reproduce
results while you understand the steps to perform and explanation of various code components from
text.
1. Fetch the dataset from the Open Images dataset, which includes training images,
their annotations, and the validation dataset:
Import the relevant packages, define the device, and fetch the JSON file that
contains information about the images to download:
!pip install -qU openimages torch_snippets urllib3
!wget -O open_images_train_captions.jsonl -q 
https://storage.googleapis.com/localized-
narratives/annotations/open_images_train_v6_captions.jsonl
from torch_snippets import *
import json
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
Loop through the content of the JSON file and fetch the information of the
first 100,000 images:
with open('open_images_train_captions.jsonl', 'r') as \
                                            json_file:
    json_list = json_file.read().split('\n')
np.random.shuffle(json_list)
data = []
N = 100000
for ix, json_str in Tqdm(enumerate(json_list), N):
    if ix == N: break
    try:
        result = json.loads(json_str)
        x = pd.DataFrame.from_dict(result, orient='index').T
        data.append(x)
    except:
        pass
A sample of the information obtained from the JSON file is as follows:

--- Strana 718 ---
From the preceding sample, we can see that caption and image_id are the key
information we will use in the subsequent steps. image_id will be used to
fetch the corresponding image and caption will be used to associate the
output corresponding to the image obtained from a given image ID.
Split the dataframe (data) into training and validation datasets:
np.random.seed(10)
data = pd.concat(data)
data['train'] = np.random.choice([True,False], \
                                 size=len(data),p=[0.95,0.05])
data.to_csv('data.csv', index=False)
Download the images corresponding to the image IDs fetched from the JSON
file:
from openimages.download import _download_images_by_id
!mkdir -p train-images val-images
subset_imageIds = data[data['train']].image_id.tolist()
_download_images_by_id(subset_imageIds, 'train', \
                       './train-images/')
subset_imageIds = data[~data['train']].image_id.tolist()
_download_images_by_id(subset_imageIds, 'train', \
                       './val-images/')
2. Create a vocabulary of all the unique words present in all the captions in the
dataframe:
A vocabulary object is something that can map every word in all the captions
to a unique integer and vice versa. We will take advantage of the torchtext
library's Field.build_vocab functionality, which runs through all the words
(annotations/captions) and accumulates them into two counters, stoi and itos,
which are, respectively, "string to int" (a dictionary) and "int to string" (a
list):
from torchtext.data import Field
from pycocotools.coco import COCO
from collections import defaultdict
captions = Field(sequential=False, init_token='<start>', \
                 eos_token='<end>')
all_captions = data[data['train']]['caption'].tolist()

--- Strana 719 ---
all_tokens = [[w.lower() for w in c.split()] \
              for c in all_captions]
all_tokens = [w for sublist in all_tokens \
              for w in sublist]
captions.build_vocab(all_tokens)
In the preceding code, Field for captions is a specialized object for building
more complex NLP datasets in PyTorch. We cannot deal with text directly
like we deal with images as strings are incompatible with tensors. So, we
need to keep track of all unique occurrences of words (also called tokens),
which will facilitate a one-to-one mapping of every word with a unique
associated integer. For example, if the input caption is Cat sat on the mat,
based on a mapping of words to integers, the sequence will be converted
to, say, [5 23 24 4 29], where cat is uniquely associated with the integer 5.
This mapping is typically called vocabulary, which may look like {'<pad>':
0,  '<unk'>: 1, '<start>': 2, '<end>': 3, 'the': 4, 'cat': 5, ...., 'on': 24,
'sat': 23, ... }. The first few tokens are reserved for special functionalities,
such as padding, unknown, the start of the sentence, and the end of the
sentence.
We only need the captions vocabulary components, so in the following code,
we create a dummy vocab object, which is lightweight and will have an
extra <pad> token that was missing in captions.vocab:
class Vocab: pass
vocab = Vocab()
captions.vocab.itos.insert(0, '<pad>')
vocab.itos = captions.vocab.itos
vocab.stoi = defaultdict(lambda: \
                         captions.vocab.itos.index('<unk>'))
vocab.stoi['<pad>'] = 0
for s,i in captions.vocab.stoi.items():
    vocab.stoi[s] = i+1
Note that vocab.stoi is defined as defaultdict with a default function. Python
uses this special dictionary to return a default value when a key does not
exist. In our case, we will return an '<unk>' token when we try to call
vocab.stoi[<new-key/word>]. This is handy during the validation phase where
there might be some token that was not present in the training data.
3. Define the dataset class – CaptioningDataset:
Define the __init__ method, where we provide the data frame obtained
previously (df), the folder containing the images (root), vocab, and the image
transformation pipeline (self.transform):
from torchvision import transforms
class CaptioningData(Dataset):

--- Strana 720 ---
    def __init__(self, root, df, vocab):
        self.df = df.reset_index(drop=True)
        self.root = root
        self.vocab = vocab
        self.transform = transforms.Compose([ 
            transforms.Resize(224),
            transforms.RandomCrop(224),
            transforms.RandomHorizontalFlip(), 
            transforms.ToTensor(), 
            transforms.Normalize((0.485, 0.456, 0.406), 
                                 (0.229, 0.224, 0.225))]
        )
Define the __getitem__ method, where an image and its corresponding caption
are fetched. Furthermore, the target is converted into a list of corresponding
word IDs using vocab, which was built in the previous step:
    def __getitem__(self, index):
        """Returns one data pair (image and caption)."""
        row = self.df.iloc[index].squeeze()
        id = row.image_id
        image_path = f'{self.root}/{id}.jpg'
        image = Image.open(os.path.join(image_path))\
                                  .convert('RGB')
        caption = row.caption
        tokens = str(caption).lower().split()
        target = []
        target.append(vocab.stoi['<start>'])
        target.extend([vocab.stoi[token] for token in tokens])
        target.append(vocab.stoi['<end>'])
        target = torch.Tensor(target).long()
        return image, target, caption
Define the __choose__ method:
    def choose(self):
        return self[np.random.randint(len(self))]
Define the __len__ method:
    def __len__(self):
        return len(self.df)
Define the collate_fn method to work on a batch of data:
    def collate_fn(self, data):
        data.sort(key=lambda x: len(x[1]), reverse=True)
        images, targets, captions = zip(*data)
        images = torch.stack([self.transform(image) \
                              for image in images], 0)
        lengths = [len(tar) for tar in targets]
        _targets = torch.zeros(len(captions), \
                               max(lengths)).long()
        for i, tar in enumerate(targets):
            end = lengths[i]
            _targets[i, :end] = tar[:end] 
        return images.to(device), _targets.to(device), \
    torch.tensor(lengths).long().to(device)

--- Strana 721 ---
In the collate_fn method, we are calculating the maximum length (the
caption with the maximum number of words) of the captions in a batch and
padding the rest of the captions in the batch to have the same length.
4. Define the training and validation dataset and data loaders:
trn_ds = CaptioningData('train-images', data[data['train']], \
                        vocab)
val_ds = CaptioningData('val-images', data[~data['train']], \
                        vocab)
image, target, caption = trn_ds.choose()
show(image, title=caption, sz=5); print(target)
A sample image and the corresponding caption and tokens' word indices are as
follows:
5. Create the dataloaders for the datasets:
trn_dl = DataLoader(trn_ds, 32, collate_fn=trn_ds.collate_fn)
val_dl = DataLoader(val_ds, 32, collate_fn=val_ds.collate_fn)
inspect(*next(iter(trn_dl)), names='images,targets,lengths')
A sample batch would have the following entities:
6. Define the network class:
Define the encoder architecture – EncoderCNN:
from torch.nn.utils.rnn import pack_padded_sequence
from torchvision import models
class EncoderCNN(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, embed_size):
        """Load the pretrained ResNet-152 and replace 

--- Strana 722 ---
        top fc layer."""
        super(EncoderCNN, self).__init__()
        resnet = models.resnet152(pretrained=True)
        # delete the last fc layer.
        modules = list(resnet.children())[:-1] 
        self.resnet = nn.Sequential(*modules)
        self.linear = nn.Linear(resnet.fc.in_features, \
                                embed_size)
        self.bn = nn.BatchNorm1d(embed_size, \
                                 momentum=0.01)
        
    def forward(self, images):
        """Extract feature vectors from input images."""
        with torch.no_grad():
            features = self.resnet(images)
        features = features.reshape(features.size(0), -1)
        features = self.bn(self.linear(features))
        return features
In the preceding code, we are fetching the pre-trained ResNet-152 model,
deleting the last fc layer, connecting it to a Linear layer of size embed_size,
and then passing it through batch normalization (bn).
Fetch a summary of the encoder class:
encoder = EncoderCNN(256).to(device)
!pip install torch_summary
from torchsummary import summary
print(summary(encoder,torch.zeros(32,3,224,224).to(device)))
The preceding code gives the following output:

--- Strana 723 ---
Define the decoder architecture – DecoderRNN:
class DecoderRNN(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, embed_size, hidden_size, vocab_size, \
                 num_layers, max_seq_length=80):

--- Strana 724 ---
        """Set the hyper-parameters and build the layers."""
        super(DecoderRNN, self).__init__()
        self.embed = nn.Embedding(vocab_size, embed_size)
        self.lstm = nn.LSTM(embed_size, hidden_size, \
                            num_layers, batch_first=True)
        self.linear = nn.Linear(hidden_size, vocab_size)
        self.max_seq_length = max_seq_length
        
    def forward(self, features, captions, lengths):
        """Decode image feature vectors and 
        generates captions."""
        embeddings = self.embed(captions)
        embeddings = torch.cat((features.unsqueeze(1), \
                                embeddings), 1)
        packed = pack_padded_sequence(embeddings, \
                            lengths.cpu(), batch_first=True) 
        outputs, _ = self.lstm(packed)
        outputs = self.linear(outputs[0])
        return outputs
In the preceding decoder, let's understand what we are initializing: 
self.embed: A vocab x embed_size matrix that creates and learns a unique
embedding for each word.
self.lstm takes the output of CNNEncoder and the previous time step's word
output embedding as input and returns a hidden state for each time step.
self.linear converts each hidden state into a V-dimensional vector that
we'll use softmax on, to get the likely word for a time step.
In the forward method, we see the following:
1. The captions (which are sent as integers) are converted into embedding using
self.embed.
2. features from EncoderCNN is concatenated to embeddings. If the number of time steps (L
in the following example) per caption is, say, 80, after concatenation, the number
of time steps is going to be 81. See the following example for what is being fed
and predicted in each time step:

--- Strana 725 ---
3. Using pack_padded_sequences, the concatenated embeddings are packed into a data
structure that lets RNN computations be more efficient by not unrolling at time
steps where padding is present. See the following diagram for an intuitive
explanation:
In the following diagram, we have three sentences that are encoded with their
corresponding word indices. A word index of 0 represents the padding index.
After packing, the batch size is 1 in the last index as there is only one
sentence where the last index in the sentence is not the padding index:
The packed padding is now passed to LSTM, as follows:

--- Strana 726 ---
The corresponding line for the previous illustration in code is outputs, _ =
self.lstm(packed). Finally, the outputs from LSTM are sent through a linear
layer so that the number of dimensions changes from 512 to vocab size.
We will also add a predict method to the RNN that accepts features from Enco
returns the expected tokens for each feature. We will use this after training, t
captions on an image:
    def predict(self, features, states=None):
        """Generate captions for given image 
        features using greedy search."""
        sampled_ids = []
        inputs = features.unsqueeze(1)
        for i in range(self.max_seq_length):
            hiddens, states = self.lstm(inputs, states) 
            # hiddens: (batch_size, 1, hidden_size)
            outputs = self.linear(hiddens.squeeze(1)) 
            # outputs: (batch_size, vocab_size)
            _, predicted = outputs.max(1) 
            # predicted: (batch_size)
            sampled_ids.append(predicted)
            inputs = self.embed(predicted) 
            # inputs: (batch_size, embed_size)
            inputs = inputs.unsqueeze(1) 
            # inputs: (batch_size, 1, embed_size)
        sampled_ids = torch.stack(sampled_ids, 1) 
        # sampled_ids: (batch_size, max_seq_length)
        # convert predicted tokens to strings

--- Strana 727 ---
        sentences = []
        for sampled_id in sampled_ids:
            sampled_id = sampled_id.cpu().numpy()
            sampled_caption = []
            for word_id in sampled_id:
                word = vocab.itos[word_id]
                sampled_caption.append(word)
                if word == '<end>':
                    break
            sentence = ' '.join(sampled_caption)
            sentences.append(sentence)
        return sentences
7. Define the functions to train on a batch of data:
def train_batch(data, encoder, decoder, optimizer, criterion):
    encoder.train()
    decoder.train()
    images, captions, lengths = data
    images = images.to(device)
    captions = captions.to(device)
    targets = pack_padded_sequence(captions, lengths.cpu(), \
                                   batch_first=True)[0]
    features = encoder(images)
    outputs = decoder(features, captions, lengths)
    loss = criterion(outputs, targets)
    decoder.zero_grad()
    encoder.zero_grad()
    loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    return loss
Note that we create a tensor called targets from this, which has items packed
into a vector. As you know from the previous diagram,
pack_padded_sequence helps to pack the predictions in such a way that it is easier
to call nn.CrossEntropyLoss on the output with the packed target values.
8. Define the function to validate on a batch of data:
@torch.no_grad()
def validate_batch(data, encoder, decoder, criterion):
    encoder.eval()
    decoder.eval()
    images, captions, lengths = data
    images = images.to(device)
    captions = captions.to(device)
    targets = pack_padded_sequence(captions, lengths.cpu(), \
                                   batch_first=True)[0]
    features = encoder(images)
    outputs = decoder(features, captions, lengths)
    loss = criterion(outputs, targets)
    return loss
9. Define the model objects and the loss function, and optimizer:
encoder = EncoderCNN(256).to(device)
decoder = DecoderRNN(256, 512, len(vocab.itos), 1).to(device)
criterion = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
params = list(decoder.parameters()) + \
         list(encoder.linear.parameters()) + \
         list(encoder.bn.parameters())
optimizer = torch.optim.AdamW(params, lr=1e-3)

--- Strana 728 ---
n_epochs = 10
log = Report(n_epochs)
10. Train the model over increasing epochs:
for epoch in range(n_epochs):
    if epoch == 5: optimizer = torch.optim.AdamW(params, \
                                                 lr=1e-4)
    N = len(trn_dl)
    for i, data in enumerate(trn_dl):
        trn_loss = train_batch(data, encoder, decoder, \
                               optimizer, criterion)
        pos = epoch + (1+i)/N
        log.record(pos=pos, trn_loss=trn_loss, end='\r')
    N = len(val_dl)
    for i, data in enumerate(val_dl):
        val_loss = validate_batch(data, encoder, decoder, \
                                  criterion)
        pos = epoch + (1+i)/N
        log.record(pos=pos, val_loss=val_loss, end='\r')
    log.report_avgs(epoch+1)
log.plot_epochs(log=True)
The preceding code generates an output of variation of the training and
validation loss over increasing epochs:
11. Define a function that generates predictions given an image:
def load_image(image_path, transform=None):
    image = Image.open(image_path).convert('RGB')
    image = image.resize([224, 224], Image.LANCZOS)
    if transform is not None:
        tfm_image = transform(image)[None]

--- Strana 729 ---
    return image, tfm_image
def load_image_and_predict(image_path):
    transform = transforms.Compose([
                    transforms.ToTensor(), 
                    transforms.Normalize(\
                        (0.485, 0.456, 0.406), 
                        (0.229, 0.224, 0.225))
                    ])
    org_image, tfm_image = load_image(image_path, transform)
    image_tensor = tfm_image.to(device)
    encoder.eval()
    decoder.eval()
    feature = encoder(image_tensor)
    sentence = decoder.predict(feature)[0]
    show(org_image, title=sentence)
    return sentence
files = Glob('val-images')
load_image_and_predict(choose(files))
The preceding generates predictions given an image:
From the preceding, we can see that we can generate reasonable captions given an
image (which is presented as the title in the preceding example).
In this section, we learned about leveraging a CNN and RNN together to generate
captions. In the next section, we will learn about using CNNs, RNNs, and CTC loss
functions to transcribe images containing handwritten words.
Transcribing handwritten images

--- Strana 730 ---
In the previous section, we learned about generating sequences of words from an input
image. In this section, we will learn about generating sequences of characters with the
image as input. Furthermore, we will learn about the CTC loss function, which helps
in transcribing handwritten images.
Before we learn about the CTC loss function, let's understand the reason why the
architecture that we saw in the image captioning section might not apply in
handwritten transcription. Unlike in image captioning, where there is no
straightforward correlation between the content in the image and the output words, in
a handwritten image, there is a direct correlation between the sequence of characters
present in the image and the sequence of output. Thus, we will follow a different
architecture from what we designed in the previous section. 
In addition, assume a scenario where an image is divided into 20 portions (assuming a
scenario of a maximum of 20 characters per word in an image), where each portion
corresponds to a character. One person's handwriting might ensure that each character
perfectly fits into a box and another's handwriting might be mixed up such that each
box contains two characters, and another where the spacing between two characters is
so large that it is not possible to fit a word into 20 time steps (portions). This calls for
a different way of solving this problem, which leverages the CTC loss function –
which we will learn about in the next section.
The working details of CTC loss
Imagine a scenario where we are transcribing an image that contains the word ab. The
image could look like any of the following and the output is always ab, irrespective of
which of the following three images we choose:
In the next step, we divide the preceding three examples into six time steps, as follows
(where each box represents a time step):

--- Strana 731 ---
Now, we'll predict the output character in each time step – where the output is the
softmax of probabilities of words present within a vocabulary. Given that we are
performing softmax, let's say the output character at each time step after running the
image through our model (which we will define in the subsequent section) is as in the
following (the output of each cell is provided above the image):
Note that - represents that nothing is present in the corresponding time step.
Furthermore, note that the character b is repeated in two different time steps.
In the final step, we will squash the output (a sequence of characters) that is obtained
by passing our image through the model in such a way that consecutive repeating
characters are squashed into one.
The preceding step of squashing repeating characters' output if there are consecutive
same-character predictions results in a final output as follows:
-a-b-
In another case, where the output is abb, the final output post squashing is expected to
have a separator between the two b characters, an example of which is as follows:
-a-b-b-
Now that we understand the concept of how the input and output values look, in the
next section, let's learn about how we calculate the CTC loss value.

--- Strana 732 ---
Calculating the CTC loss value
For the problem we are solving in the previous section, let's consider the following
scenario – the probability of having the character in a given time step is provided in
the circles in the following diagram (note that the probabilities add up to 1 in each
time step from t0 to t5):
However, to keep the calculation simple, for us to understand how the CTC loss value
is calculated, let's take a scenario where the image contains only the character a and
not the word ab. Furthermore, we'll assume that there are only three time steps for
simplicity of calculation:
We can obtain the ground truth of a if the softmax in each time step is like any of the
following seven scenarios:
Output
in each
Prob. of
character
Prob. of
character
Prob. of
character
Probability
of
Final
probability

--- Strana 733 ---
time step
in t0
in t1
in t2
combination
--a
0.8
0.1
0.1
0.8 x 0.1 x
0.1
0.008
-aa
0.8
0.9
0.1
0.8 x 0.9 x
0.1
0.072
aaa
0.2
0.9
0.1
0.2 x 0.9 x
0.1
0.018
-a-
0.8
0.9
0.8
0.8 x 0.9 x
0.8
0.576
-aa
0.8
0.9
0.1
0.8 x 0.9 x
0.1
0.072
a--
0.2
0.1
0.8
0.2 x 0.1 x
0.8
0.016
aa-
0.2
0.9
0.8
0.2 x 0.9 x
0.8
0.144
Overall
probability
0.906
From the preceding results, we can see that the overall probability of obtaining the
ground truth is 0.906.
The rest of the 0.094 corresponds to the probability of the outcome not obtaining the
ground truth.
Let's calculate the binary cross-entropy loss corresponding to the summation of all the
possible ground truths.
CTC loss is the negative logarithm of the overall probability summation of
combinations that result in ground truth = -log(0.906) = 0.1.
Now that we understand how the CTC loss is calculated, let's implement this
knowledge while building a model for handwriting transcription from an image in the
next section.
Handwriting transcription in code

--- Strana 734 ---
The strategy we will adopt to code up a network that can transcribe the content of an
image of a handwritten word is as follows:
1. Import the dataset of images and their corresponding transcriptions.
2. Give an index to each character.
3. Pass the image through a convolutional network to fetch the feature map
corresponding to the image.
4. Pass the feature maps through an RNN.
5. Fetch the probabilities in each time step.
6. Leverage the CTC loss function to squash outputs and provide transcriptions and
the corresponding loss.
7. The weights of the network are optimized by minimizing the CTC loss function.
Let's execute the preceding strategy in code:
The following code is available as Handwriting_transcription.ipynb in the Chapter15 folder of this book's
GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt.
1. Download and import the dataset of images:
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/l2ul3upj7dkv4ou/synthetic-data.zip
!unzip -qq synthetic-data.zip
In the preceding code, we have downloaded the dataset where the images are
provided and the filename of the image contains the ground truth of
transcription corresponding to that image.
A sample from the images that were downloaded is as follows:
2. Install the required packages and import them:
!pip install torch_snippets torch_summary editdistance
Import the packages:

--- Strana 735 ---
from torch_snippets import *
from torchsummary import summary
import editdistance
3. Specify the location of the images and the function to fetch the ground truth from
the images:
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
fname2label = lambda fname: stem(fname).split('@')[0]
images = Glob('synthetic-data')
Note that we are creating the fname2label function as the ground truth of an
image is available after the @ symbol in the filename. A sample of the
filenames is as follows:
4. Define the vocabulary of characters (vocab), the batch size (B), the time steps of
the RNN (T), the length of the vocabulary (V), the height (H), and the width (W) of
the images:
vocab='QWERTYUIOPASDFGHJKLZXCVBNMqwertyuiopasdfghjklzxcvbnm'
B,T,V = 64, 32, len(vocab) 
H,W = 32, 128 
5. Define the OCRDataset dataset class:
Define the __init__ method where we specify the mapping of character to
character ID (charList) and the other way around (invCharList) by looping
through vocab, as well as the number of time steps (timesteps) and the file paths
of the images (items) that are to be fetched. We are using charList and
invCharList instead of using torchtext's build vocab here as the vocabulary is
simpler to handle (contains fewer number of distinct characters):
class OCRDataset(Dataset):
    def __init__(self, items, vocab=vocab, \
                 preprocess_shape=(H,W), timesteps=T):
        super().__init__()
        self.items = items
        self.charList = {ix+1:ch for ix,ch \
                         in enumerate(vocab)}
        self.charList.update({0: '`'})
        self.invCharList = {v:k for k,v in \
                            self.charList.items()}
        self.ts = timesteps
Define the __len__ and __getitem__ methods:

--- Strana 736 ---
    def __len__(self):
        return len(self.items)
    def sample(self):
        return self[randint(len(self))]
    def __getitem__(self, ix):
        item = self.items[ix]
        image = cv2.imread(item, 0)
        label = fname2label(item)
        return image, label
Note that in the __getitem__ method, we are reading the image and creating
the label using fname2label, which we defined earlier.
In addition, we are defining a sample method that helps us in randomly
sampling an image from the dataset.
Define the collate_fn method, which takes a batch of images and appends
them and their labels in different lists. Furthermore, it converts the characters
of the ground truth corresponding to an image in their vector format (which
converts each character into its corresponding ID) and finally, stores the label
length and the input length (which is always the number of time steps) for
every image. The label length and input length are leveraged by the CTC loss
function while calculating the loss value:
    def collate_fn(self, batch):
        images, labels, label_lengths = [], [], []
        label_vectors, input_lengths = [], []
        for image, label in batch:
            images.append(torch.Tensor(self.\
                                preprocess(image))[None,None])
            label_lengths.append(len(label))
            labels.append(label)
            label_vectors.append(self.str2vec(label))
            input_lengths.append(self.ts)
Convert each of the preceding lists into a Torch tensor object and
return images, labels, label_lengths, label_vectors, and input_lengths:
        images = torch.cat(images).float().to(device)
        label_lengths = torch.Tensor(label_lengths)\
                             .long().to(device)
        label_vectors = torch.Tensor(label_vectors)\
                             .long().to(device)
        input_lengths = torch.Tensor(input_lengths)\
                             .long().to(device)
        return images, label_vectors, label_lengths, \
                input_lengths, labels
Define the str2vec function, which converts an input of character IDs into a
string:
    def str2vec(self, string, pad=True):
        string = ''.join([s for s in string if \
                          s in self.invCharList])
        val = list(map(lambda x: self.invCharList[x], \
                       string)) 
        if pad:

--- Strana 737 ---
            while len(val) < self.ts:
                val.append(0)
        return val
In the str2vec function, we are fetching the characters from a string of
character IDs and appending the vectors with a pad index of 0 if the length
of the labels (len(val)) is less than the number of time steps (self.ts).
Define the preprocess function, which takes an image (img) and shape as input to
process it to a consistent shape of 32 x 128. Note that additional
preprocessing is to be done other than resizing the image as images are to be
resized while maintaining the aspect ratio.
Define the preprocess function and the target shape of the image, which for
now is initialized as a blank image (white image – target):
    def preprocess(self, img, shape=(32,128)):
        target = np.ones(shape)*255
Fetch the shape and the expected shape of the image:
        try:
            H, W = shape
            h, w = img.shape
Calculate how the image is to be resized to maintain the aspect ratio:
            fx = H/h
            fy = W/w
            f = min(fx, fy)
            _h = int(h*f)
            _w = int(w*f)
Resize the image and store it in the target variable defined earlier:
            _img = cv2.resize(img, (_w,_h))
            target[:_h,:_w] = _img
Return the normalized image (where we first convert the image to have a
black background and then scale the pixels to a value between 0 and 1):
        except:
            ...
        return (255-target)/255
Define the decoder_chars function to decode predictions into words:
    def decoder_chars(self, pred):
        decoded = ""
        last = ""
        pred = pred.cpu().detach().numpy()
        for i in range(len(pred)):
            k = np.argmax(pred[i])

--- Strana 738 ---
            if k > 0 and self.charList[k] != last:
                last = self.charList[k]
                decoded = decoded + last
            elif k > 0 and self.charList[k] == last:
                continue
            else:
                last = ""
        return decoded.replace(" "," ")
In the preceding code, we are looping through the predictions (pred) one
time step at a time, fetching the character that has the highest confidence
(k), comparing that with the character that has the highest confidence in the
previous time step (last), and appending it to the decoded characters so far if
the character with the highest confidence in the previous time step is not
the same as the character with the highest confidence in the current time
step (equivalent to squashing, which we discussed in the CTC loss function
section).
Define the methods to calculate the character and word accuracies:
    def wer(self, preds, labels):
        c = 0
        for p, l in zip(preds, labels):
            c += p.lower().strip() != l.lower().strip()
        return round(c/len(preds), 4)
    def cer(self, preds, labels):
        c, d = [], []
        for p, l in zip(preds, labels):
            c.append(editdistance.eval(p, l) / len(l))
        return round(np.mean(c), 4)
Define a method to evaluate the model on a set of images and return the word
and character error rate:
    def evaluate(self, model, ims, labels, lower=False):
        model.eval()
        preds = model(ims).permute(1,0,2) # B, T, V+1
        preds = [self.decoder_chars(pred) for pred in preds]
        return {'char-error-rate': self.cer(preds, labels), \
                'word-error-rate': self.wer(preds, labels), \
                'char-accuracy': 1-self.cer(preds, labels), \
                'word-accuracy' : 1-self.wer(preds, labels)}
In the preceding code, we are permuting channels of the input images so
that we have the data preprocessed as expected by the model, decoding the
predictions using the decoder_chars function and then returning the character
error rate, word error rate, and their corresponding accuracies.
6. Specify the training and validation datasets and the dataloaders:
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
trn_items,val_items=train_test_split(Glob('synthetic-data'), \
                              test_size=0.2, random_state=22)
trn_ds = OCRDataset(trn_items)
val_ds = OCRDataset(val_items)

--- Strana 739 ---
trn_dl = DataLoader(trn_ds, batch_size=B, \
                    collate_fn=trn_ds.collate_fn, \
                    drop_last=True, shuffle=True)
val_dl = DataLoader(val_ds, batch_size=B, \
                collate_fn=val_ds.collate_fn, drop_last=True)
7. Build the network architecture:
Build the basic blocks of a CNN:
from torch_snippets import Reshape, Permute
class BasicBlock(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, ni, no, ks=3, st=1, \
                 padding=1, pool=2, drop=0.2):
        super().__init__()
        self.ks = ks
        self.block = nn.Sequential(
            nn.Conv2d(ni, no, kernel_size=ks, \
                      stride=st, padding=padding),
            nn.BatchNorm2d(no, momentum=0.3),
            nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
            nn.MaxPool2d(pool),
            nn.Dropout2d(drop)
        )
    def forward(self, x):
        return self.block(x)
Build the neural network class OCR that has the CNN blocks and RNN
blocks defined in the __init__ method in self.model and self.rnn, respectively.
Next, we define the self.classification layer, which takes the output of an
RNN and passes it through a softmax activation after processing the RNN
output through a dense layer:
class Ocr(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, vocab):
        super().__init__()
        self.model = nn.Sequential(
                    BasicBlock( 1, 128),
                    BasicBlock(128, 128),
                    BasicBlock(128, 256, pool=(4,2)),
                    Reshape(-1, 256, 32),
                    Permute(2, 0, 1) # T, B, D
                )
        self.rnn = nn.Sequential(
            nn.LSTM(256, 256, num_layers=2, \
                    dropout=0.2, bidirectional=True),
        )
        self.classification = nn.Sequential(
            nn.Linear(512, vocab+1),
            nn.LogSoftmax(-1),
        )
Define the forward method:
    def forward(self, x):
        x = self.model(x)
        x, lstm_states = self.rnn(x)
        y = self.classification(x)
        return y

--- Strana 740 ---
In the preceding code, we are fetching the CNN output in the first step and
then passing it through the RNN to fetch lstm_states and the RNN output x,
before finally passing the output through the classification layer
(self.classification) and returning it.
Define the CTC loss function:
def ctc(log_probs, target, input_lengths, \
        target_lengths, blank=0):
    loss = nn.CTCLoss(blank=blank, zero_infinity=True)
    ctc_loss = loss(log_probs, target, \
                    input_lengths, target_lengths)
    return ctc_loss
In the preceding code, we are leveraging the nn.CTCLoss method to minimize
ctc_loss, which takes the confidence matrix, log_probs (predictions in each
time step), target (ground truth), input_lengths, and target_lengths as input to
return the ctc_loss value.
Fetch a summary of the defined model:
model = Ocr(len(vocab)).to(device)
summary(model, torch.zeros((1,1,32,128)).to(device))
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 741 ---
Note that the output has 53 probabilities associated with each image in the
batch as there is a vocabulary of 53 characters (26 x 2 = 52 letters and the
separator character).
8. Define the function to train on a batch of data:
def train_batch(data, model, optimizer, criterion):
    model.train()
    imgs, targets, label_lens, input_lens, labels = data
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    preds = model(imgs)
    loss = criterion(preds, targets, input_lens, label_lens)
    loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()
    results = trn_ds.evaluate(model, imgs.to(device),labels)
    return loss, results
9. Define the function to validate on a batch of data:
@torch.no_grad()
def validate_batch(data, model):
    model.eval()
    imgs, targets, label_lens, input_lens, labels = data
    preds = model(imgs)
    loss = criterion(preds, targets, input_lens, label_lens)
    return loss, val_ds.evaluate(model, imgs.to(device), \
                                 labels)

--- Strana 742 ---
10. Define the model object, optimizer, loss function, and the number of epochs:
model = Ocr(len(vocab)).to(device)
criterion = ctc
optimizer = optim.AdamW(model.parameters(), lr=3e-3)
n_epochs = 50
log = Report(n_epochs)
11. Run the model over increasing epochs:
for ep in range( n_epochs):
    N = len(trn_dl)
    for ix, data in enumerate(trn_dl):
        pos = ep + (ix+1)/N
        loss, results = train_batch(data, model, optimizer, \
                                    criterion)
        ca, wa = results['char-accuracy'], \
                 results['word-accuracy']
        log.record(pos=pos, trn_loss=loss, trn_char_acc=ca, \
                   trn_word_acc=wa, end='\r')
    val_results = []
    N = len(val_dl)
    for ix, data in enumerate(val_dl):
        pos = ep + (ix+1)/N
        loss, results = validate_batch(data, model)
        ca, wa = results['char-accuracy'], \
                 results['word-accuracy']
        log.record(pos=pos, val_loss=loss, val_char_acc=ca, \
                   val_word_acc=wa, end='\r')
    log.report_avgs(ep+1)
    print()
    for jx in range(5):
        img, label = val_ds.sample()
        _img=torch.Tensor(val_ds.preprocess(img)[None,None])\
                                  .to(device)
        pred = model(_img)[:,0,:]
        pred = trn_ds.decoder_chars(pred)
        print(f'Pred: `{pred}` :: Truth: `{label}`')
    print()
The preceding code results in the following output: 

--- Strana 743 ---
From the graph, we can see that the model has a word accuracy of around 80% on the
validation dataset.
Furthermore, the predictions at the end of training are as follows:

--- Strana 744 ---
So far, we have learned about using a combination of CNNs and RNNs. In the next
section, we will learn about leveraging transformer architecture to perform object
detection of the trucks versus bus dataset we worked on in the previous chapters.

--- Strana 745 ---
Object detection using DETR
In previous chapters on object detection, we learned about leveraging anchor
boxes/region proposals to perform object classification and detection. However, it
involved a pipeline of steps to come up with object detection. DETR is a technique
that leverages transformers to come up with an end-to-end pipeline that simplifies the
object detection network architecture considerably. Transformers are one of the more
popular and more recent techniques to perform various tasks in NLP. In this section,
we will learn about the working details of transformers, DETR, and code it up to
perform our task of detecting trucks versus buses.
The working details of transformers
Transformers have proven to be a remarkable architecture for sequence-to-sequence
problems. Almost all NLP tasks, as of the time of writing this book, have state-of-the-
art implementations that come from transformers. This class of networks uses only
linear layers and softmax to create self-attention (which will be explained in detail in
the next sub-section). Self-attention helps in identifying the interdependency among
words in the input text. The input sequence typically does not exceed 2,048 items as
this is large enough for text applications. However, if images are to be used with
transformers, they have to be flattened, which creates a sequence in the order of
thousands/millions of pixels (as a 300 x 300 x 3 image would contain 270K pixels),
which is not feasible. Facebook Research came up with a novel way to bypass this
restriction by giving the feature map (which has a smaller size than the input image)
as input to the transformer. Let's understand the basics of transformers in this section
and understand the relevant code blocks later.
Basics of transformers
At the heart of a transformer is the self-attention module. It takes three two-
dimensional matrices (called query (Q), key (K), and value (V) matrices) as input.
The matrices can have very large embedding sizes (as they would contain text size x
embedding size number of values), so they are split up into smaller components first
(step 1 in the following diagram), before running through the scaled-dot-product-
attention (step 2 in the following diagram).
Let's understand how self-attention works. In a hypothetical scenario where the
sequence length is 3, we have three word embeddings (W1, W2, and W3) as input. Say
each embedding is of size 512. Each of these embeddings is individually converted

--- Strana 746 ---
into three additional vectors, which are the query, key, and value vectors
corresponding to each input:
Since each vector is 512 in size, it is computationally expensive to do a matrix
multiplication between them. So, we split each of these vectors into eight parts,
having eight sets of (64 x 3) vectors for each of key, query, and value tensor, where 64
is obtained from 512 (embedding size) / 8 (multi-heads) and 3 is the sequence length:
Note that there will be eight sets of tensors of 
, 
, and so on because
there are eight multi-heads.
In each part, we first perform matrix multiplication between the key and query
matrices. This way, we end up with a 3 x 3 matrix. Pass it through softmax activation.
Now, we have a matrix showing how important each word is, in relation to every other
word:

--- Strana 747 ---
Finally, we perform matrix multiplication of the preceding tensor output with the
value tensor to get the output of our self-attention operation:
We then combine the eight outputs of this step, go back using concat layer (step3 in
the following diagram), and end up with a single tensor of size 512 x 3.  Because of
the splitting of the Q, K, and V matrices, the layer is also called multi-head self-
attention (Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1706.03762.pdf): 
The idea behind such a complex-looking network is as follows:

--- Strana 748 ---
Values (Vs) are the processed embeddings that need to be learned for a given
input, in its context of key and query matrices.
Queries (Qs) and Keys (Ks) act in such a way that their combination will create
the right mask so that only the important parts of the value matrix are fed to the
next layer.
For our example in computer vision, when searching for an object such as a horse, the
query should contain information to search for an object that is large in dimension and
is brown, black, or white in general. The softmax output of scaled dot-product
attention will reflect those parts of the key matrix that contain this color (brown,
black, white, and so on) in the image. Thus, the values output from the self-attention
layer will have those parts of the image that are roughly of the desired color and are
present in the values matrix. 
We use the self-attention block several times in the network, as illustrated in the
following diagram. The transformer network contains an encoding network (the left
part of the diagram) whose input is the source sequence. The output of the encoding
half is used as the key and query inputs for the decoding half, while the value input is
going to be learned by the neural network independently to the encoding half (Source:
https://arxiv.org/pdf/1706.03762.pdf):
 

--- Strana 749 ---
Finally, even though this is a sequence of inputs, there's no sign of which token (word)
is first and which is next (since a linear layer has no positional indication). Positional
encodings are learnable embeddings (and sometimes hardcoded vectors) that we add
to each input as a function of its position in the sequence. This is done so that the
network understands which word embedding is first in the sequence, which is second,
and so on.
The way to create a transformer network in PyTorch is very simple. There is a built-in
transformer block that you can create, like so:
from torch import nn
transformer = nn.Transformer(hidden_dim, nheads, \
                        num_encoder_layers, num_decoder_layers)
Here, hidden_dim is the size of the embeddings, nheads is the number of heads in the
multi-head self attention, and num_encoder_layers and num_decoder_layers are the number of
encoding and decoding blocks in the network, respectively.
The working details of DETR
There are few key differences between a normal transformer network and DETR.
Primarily, our input is an image, not a sequence. So, DETR passes the image through
a ResNet backbone to get a vector of size 256 that can be then treated as a sequence.
In our case, the inputs to the decoder are object-query embeddings, which are
automatically learned during training. These act as the query matrices for all the
decoder layers. Similarly, for every layer, the key and query matrices are going to be
the final output matrix from the encoder block, replicated twice. The final output of
the transformer is going to be a Batch_Size x 100 x Embedding_Size tensor, where the
model has been trained with 100 as the sequence length; that is, it learned 100 object-
query embeddings and returns 100 vectors per image, indicating whether there is an
object or not. These 100 x Embedding_Size matrices are individually fed to an object
classification module and object regression module, which independently predict
whether there's an object (and what it is) and what the bounding box coordinates are,
respectively. Both of these modules are simple nn.Linear layers.
At a high level, the architecture of DETR is as follows (Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/20
05.12872.pdf):

--- Strana 750 ---
The definition of one of the smaller variants of DETR is as follows:
Create the DETR model class:
from collections import OrderedDict
class DETR(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self,num_classes,hidden_dim=256,nheads=8, \
                 num_encoder_layers=6, num_decoder_layers=6):
        super().__init__()
        self.backbone = resnet50()
We are going to take only a few layers from ResNet and discard the rest. These
few layers contain the names given in the following list:
        layers = OrderedDict()
        for name,module in self.backbone.named_modules():
            if name in ['conv1','bn1','relu','maxpool', \
                    'layer1','layer2','layer3','layer4']:
                layers[name] = module
        self.backbone = nn.Sequential(layers)
        self.conv = nn.Conv2d(2048, hidden_dim, 1)
        self.transformer = nn.Transformer(\
                            hidden_dim, nheads, \
                            num_encoder_layers, \
                            num_decoder_layers)
        self.linear_class = nn.Linear(hidden_dim, \
                                      num_classes + 1)
        self.linear_bbox = nn.Linear(hidden_dim, 4)
In the preceding code, we are specifying the following:
The layers of interest in sequential order (self.backbone)
The convolution operation (self.conv)
The transformer block (self.transformer)
The final connection to obtain the number of classes (self.linear_class)
The bounding box (self.linear_box)

--- Strana 751 ---
Define the positional embeddings for the encoder and decoder layers:
        self.query_pos = nn.Parameter(torch.rand(100, \
                                            hidden_dim))
        self.row_embed = nn.Parameter(torch.rand(50, \
                                            hidden_dim // 2))
        self.col_embed = nn.Parameter(torch.rand(50, \
                                            hidden_dim // 2))
self.query_pos is the positional embedding input for the decoder layer, whereas
self.row_embed and self.col_embed form the two-dimensional positional
embeddings for the encoder layer.
Define the forward method:
    def forward(self, inputs):
        x = self.backbone(inputs)
        h = self.conv(x)
        H, W = h.shape[-2:]
        '''Below operation is rearranging the positional 
        embedding vectors for encoding layer'''
        pos = torch.cat([\
            self.col_embed[:W].unsqueeze(0).repeat(H, 1, 1),\
            self.row_embed[:H].unsqueeze(1).repeat(1, W, 1),\
            ], dim=-1).flatten(0, 1).unsqueeze(1)
        '''Finally, predict on the feature map obtained 
        from resnet using the transformer network'''
        h = self.transformer(pos+0.1*h.flatten(2)\
                             .permute(2, 0, 1), \
                      self.query_pos.unsqueeze(1))\
                             .transpose(0, 1)
        '''post process the output `h` to obtain class 
           probability and bounding boxes'''
        return {'pred_logits': self.linear_class(h), \
                'pred_boxes': self.linear_bbox(h).sigmoid()}
You can load a pre-trained model, trained on the COCO dataset, and use it for
predicting generic classes. The prediction logic is explained in the next section
and you can use the same function on this model as well (of course, with
COCO classes):
detr = DETR(num_classes=91)
state_dict = torch.hub.load_state_dict_from_url(url=\ 
'https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/detr/detr_demo-da2a99e9.pth'\
,map_location='cpu', check_hash=True)
detr.load_state_dict(state_dict)
detr.eval();
Note that DETR can fetch predictions in a single shot when compared to the other
object detection techniques that we learned in Chapter 7, Basics of Object Detection,
and Chapter 8, Advanced Object Detection. 
A more detailed version of the DETR architecture is as follows (Source: https://arxiv.o
rg/pdf/2005.12872.pdf):

--- Strana 752 ---
In the backbone segment, we are fetching the image features, which are then passed
through an encoder, which concatenates the image features with positional
embeddings.
Essentially, positional embeddings, present as self.row_embed, self.col_embed, in the
__init__ method help with encoding information about the position of various objects
in the image. The encoder takes the concatenation of the positional embeddings and
image features to obtain a hidden state vector, h (in the forward method), which is
passed as input to the decoder. This transformer output is further fed to two linear
networks, one for object identification and one for bounding box regression. All the
transformer's complexity is hidden in the self.transformer module of the network.
The training uses a novel Hungarian loss, which is responsible for the identification of
objects as a set and penalizes redundant predictions. This eliminates the need for a
non-max suppression altogether. The details of Hungarian loss are out of scope for
this book and we encourage you to go through the working details in the original
paper.
The decoder takes a combination of the encoder hidden state vector and the object
queries. An object query works in a similar fashion as that of positional
embeddings/anchor boxes to come up with five predictions – one for the class of the
object and the other four for the bounding box corresponding to the object.
With an intuition and high-level understanding of the working details of DETR, let's
code it up in the following section.
Detection with transformers in code
In the following code, we will code up DETR to predict the objects of our interest –
buses versus trucks:
The following code is available as Object_detection_with_DETR.ipynb in the Chapter15 folder of this book's
GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code contains URLs to download data from and is
moderately lengthy. We strongly recommend you to execute the notebook in GitHub to reproduce

--- Strana 753 ---
results while you understand the steps to perform and explanation of various code components from
text.
1. Import the dataset and create a folder named detr:
import os
if not os.path.exists('open-images-bus-trucks'):
    !pip install -q torch_snippets torchsummary
    !wget --quiet https://www.dropbox.com/s/agmzwk95v96ihic/open-images-bus-
trucks.tar.xz
    !tar -xf open-images-bus-trucks.tar.xz
    !rm open-images-bus-trucks.tar.xz
    !git clone https://github.com/sizhky/detr/
%cd detr
Move the annotation images to the detr folder:
%cd ../open-images-bus-trucks/annotations
!cp mini_open_images_train_coco_format.json\
 instances_train2017.json
!cp mini_open_images_val_coco_format.json\
 instances_val2017.json
%cd ..
!ln -s images/ train2017
!ln -s images/ val2017
%cd ../detr
Define the classes of interest:
CLASSES = ['', 'BUS','TRUCK']
2. Import the pre-trained DETR model:
from torch_snippets import *
if not os.path.exists('detr-r50-e632da11.pth'):
    !wget https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/detr/detr-r50-e632da11.pth
    checkpoint = torch.load("detr-r50-e632da11.pth", \
                            map_location='cpu')
    del checkpoint["model"]["class_embed.weight"]
    del checkpoint["model"]["class_embed.bias"]
    torch.save(checkpoint,"detr-r50_no-class-head.pth")
3. Train the model with the images and annotations present in the open-images-bus-
trucks folder:
!python main.py --coco_path ../open-images-bus-trucks/\
  --epochs 10 --lr=1e-4 --batch_size=2 --num_workers=4\
  --output_dir="outputs" --resume="detr-r50_no-class-head.pth"
4. Once we train the model, load it from the folder:
from main import get_args_parser, argparse, build_model
parser=argparse.ArgumentParser('DETR training and \
            evaluation script', parents=[get_args_parser()])
args, _ = parser.parse_known_args()
model, _, _ = build_model(args)
model.load_state_dict(torch.load("outputs/checkpoint.pth")\
                      ['model']);

--- Strana 754 ---
5. Postprocess the predictions to fetch the image and the bounding box around
objects:
from PIL import Image, ImageDraw, ImageFont
# standard PyTorch mean-std input image normalization
# colors for visualization
COLORS = [[0.000, 0.447, 0.741], [0.850, 0.325, 0.098], 
          [0.929, 0.694, 0.125], [0.494, 0.184, 0.556], 
          [0.466, 0.674, 0.188], [0.301, 0.745, 0.933]]
          
transform = T.Compose([
    T.Resize(800),
    T.ToTensor(),
    T.Normalize([0.485, 0.456, 0.406], [0.229, 0.224, 0.225])
])
# for output bounding box post-processing
def box_cxcywh_to_xyxy(x):
    x_c, y_c, w, h = x.unbind(1)
    b = [(x_c - 0.5 * w), (y_c - 0.5 * h), \
         (x_c + 0.5 * w), (y_c + 0.5 * h)]
    return torch.stack(b, dim=1)
def rescale_bboxes(out_bbox, size):
    img_w, img_h = size
    b = box_cxcywh_to_xyxy(out_bbox)
    b = b * torch.tensor([img_w, img_h, img_w, img_h], \
                         dtype=torch.float32)
    return b
    
def detect(im, model, transform):
    img = transform(im).unsqueeze(0)
    '''demo model only supports images up to 1600 pixels 
     on each side'''
    assert img.shape[-2] <= 1600 and \
    img.shape[-1] <= 1600
    outputs = model(img)
    # keep only predictions with 0.7+ confidence
    probas=outputs['pred_logits'].softmax(-1)[0,:,:-1]
    keep = probas.max(-1).values > 0.7
    # convert boxes from [0; 1] to image scales
    bboxes_scaled = rescale_bboxes(outputs['pred_boxes']\
                                   [0, keep], im.size)
    return probas[keep], bboxes_scaled
def plot_results(pil_img, prob, boxes):
    plt.figure(figsize=(16,10))
    plt.imshow(pil_img)
    ax = plt.gca()
    for p, (xmin, ymin, xmax, ymax), c in zip(prob, \
                            boxes.tolist(), COLORS * 100):
        ax.add_patch(plt.Rectangle((xmin, ymin), \
                        xmax - xmin, ymax - ymin,\
                        fill=False, color=c, linewidth=3))
        cl = p.argmax()
        text = f'{CLASSES[cl]}: {p[cl]:0.2f}'
        ax.text(xmin, ymin, text, fontsize=15,\
                bbox=dict(facecolor='yellow', alpha=0.5))
    plt.axis('off')
    plt.show()
6. Predict on new images:
for _ in range(2):
    image = Image.open(choose(Glob(\

--- Strana 755 ---
                '../open-images-bus-trucks/images/*')))\
                .resize((800,800)).convert('RGB')
    scores, boxes = detect(image, model, transform)
    plot_results(image, scores, boxes)
The preceding code generates the following output:
From the preceding, we can see that we can now train the model that is able to predict
objects within an image.

--- Strana 756 ---
Note that we have trained the model on a small dataset and hence the accuracy of
detection might not be very high in this particular case. However, the same
methodology can be extended to large datasets. As an exercise, we suggest you apply
the same technique to detect multiple objects as we did in Chapter 10, Applications of
Object Detection, and Segmentation.
Summary
In this chapter, we learned about how RNNs work and specifically the variant of
LSTM in detail. Furthermore, we learned about leveraging CNNs and RNNs together
as we passed an image through a pre-trained model to extract features and passed the
features as time steps to the RNN to extract the words one at a time, in our image
captioning use case. We then took the combination of CNNs and RNNs a step further,
where we leveraged the CTC loss function to transcribe handwritten images. The CTC
loss function helped in ensuring that we squash the same character coming from
subsequent time steps into a single character and also in ensuring that all possible
combinations of output are considered, and then we evaluated the loss based on the
combination resulting in the ground truth. Finally, we learned about leveraging
transformers to perform object detection using DETR, during which we also
understood how transformers work and how they can be leveraged in the context of
object detection.
In the next chapter, we will learn about how to combine a CNN and reinforcement
learning techniques to come up with a self-driving car prototype, an agent that is able
to play the Atari Space Invaders game with no supervision after learning the Bellman
equation, which enables assigning value to a given state.
Questions
1. Why are CNNs and RNNs combined in image captioning?
2. Why are start and end tokens provided in image captioning but not in
handwritten transcription?
3. Why is the CTC loss function leveraged in handwriting transcription?
4. How do transformers help in object detection?

--- Strana 757 ---
Combining Computer Vision and
Reinforcement Learning
In the previous chapter, we learned about how to combine NLP techniques (LSTM
and transformer) with computer vision-based techniques. In this chapter, we will
learn how to combine reinforcement learning-based techniques (primarily deep Q-
learning) with computer vision-based techniques.
We will start by learning about the basics of reinforcement learning and then about
the terminology associated with identifying how to calculate the value (Q-value)
associated with taking an action in a given state. Next, we will learn about filling a
Q-table, which helps in identifying the value associated with various actions in a
given state. Furthermore, we will learn about identifying the Q-values of various
actions in scenarios where coming up with a Q-table is infeasible due to a high
number of possible states; we'll do this using Deep Q-Network. This is where we
will understand how to leverage neural networks in combination with
reinforcement learning. Next, we will learn about scenarios where the Deep Q-
Network model does not work and address this by using the Deep Q-Network
alongside the fixed targets model. Here, we will play a video game known as Pong
by leveraging CNN in conjunction with reinforcement learning. Finally, we will
leverage what we've learned to build an agent that can drive a car autonomously in
a simulated environment – CARLA.
In summary, in this chapter, we will cover the following topics:
Learning the basics of reinforcement learning
Implementing Q-learning
Implementing deep Q-learning
Implementing deep Q-learning with fixed targets
Implementing an agent to perform autonomous driving
Learning the basics of reinforcement
learning

--- Strana 758 ---
Reinforcement learning (RL) is an area of machine learning concerned with how
software agents ought to take actions in a given state of an environment to
maximize the notion of cumulative reward. 
To understand how RL helps, let's consider a simple scenario. Imagine that you are
playing chess against a computer (in our case, the computer is an agent that has
learned/is learning how to play chess). The setup (rules) of the game constitutes
the environment. Furthermore, as we make a move (take an action), the state of
the board (the location of various pieces on the chessboard) changes. At the end of
the game, depending on the result, the agent gets a reward. The objective of the
agent is to maximize the reward.
If the machine (agent1) is playing against a human, the number of games that it
can play is finite (depending on the number of games the human can play). This
might create a bottleneck for the agent to learn well. However, what if agent1 (the
agent that is learning the game) can play against agent2 (agent2 could be another
agent that is learning chess or it could be a piece of chess software that has been
pre-programmed to play the game well)? Theoretically, the agents can play infinite
games with each other, which results in maximizing the opportunity to learn to
play the game well. This way, by playing multiple games with each other, the
learning agent is likely to learn how to address the different scenarios/states of the
game well.
Let's understand the process that the learning agent will follow to learn well:
1. Initially, the agent takes a random action in a given state.
2. The agent stores the action it has taken in various states within a game in
memory.
3. Then, the agent associates the result of the action in various states with a
reward.
4. After playing multiple games, the agent can correlate the action in a state to a
potential reward by replaying its experiences.
Next comes the question of quantifying the value that corresponds to taking an
action in a given state. We'll learn how to calculate this in the next section.
Calculating the state value

--- Strana 759 ---
To understand how to quantify the value of a state, let's use a simple scenario
where we will define the environment and objective as follows:
The environment is a grid with two rows and three columns. The agent starts at the
Start cell and it achieves its objective (rewarded with a score of +1) if the agent
reaches the bottom-right grid cell. The agent does not get a reward if it goes to any
other cell. The agent can take an action by going to the right, left, bottom, or up,
depending on the feasibility of the action (the agent can go to the right or to the
bottom in the start grid cell, for example). The reward of reaching any of the
remaining cells other than the bottom-right cell is 0.
By using this information, let's calculate the value of a cell (the state that the agent
is in, in a given snapshot). Given that some energy is spent moving from one cell
to another, we discount the value of reaching a cell by a factor of γ, where γ takes
care of the energy that's spent in moving from one cell to another. Furthermore,
the introduction of γ results in the agent learning to play well sooner. With this,
let's formalize the Bellman equation, which helps in calculating the value of a cell:
With the preceding equation in place, let's calculate the values of all cells (once
the optimal actions in a state have been identified) with the value of γ being 0.9
(the typical value of γ is between 0.9 and 0.99):

--- Strana 760 ---
From the preceding calculations, we can understand how to calculate the values in
a given state (cell), when given the optimal actions in that state. These are as
follows for our simplistic scenario of reaching the terminal state:
With the values in place, we expect the agent to follow a path of increasing value. 
Now that we understand how to calculate the state value, in the next section, we
will understand how to calculate the value associated with a state-action
combination.
Calculating the state-action value
In the previous section, we provided a scenario where we already know that the
agent is taking optimal actions (which is not realistic). In this section, we will look
at a scenario where we can identify the value that corresponds to a state-action
combination.
In the following image, each sub-cell within a cell represents the value of taking
an action in the cell. Initially, the cell values for various actions are as follows:

--- Strana 761 ---
Note that, in the preceding image, cell b1 (2nd row and 2nd column) will have a
value of 1 if the agent moves right from the cell (as it corresponds to the terminal
cell); the other actions result in a value of 0. X represents that the action is not
possible and hence no value is associated with it.
Over four iterations (steps), the updated cell values for the actions in the given
state are as follows:
This would then go through multiple iterations to provide the optimal action that
maximizes value at each cell.

--- Strana 762 ---
Let's understand how to obtain the cell values in the second table (Iteration 2 in
the preceding image). Let's narrow this down to 0.3, which was obtained by taking
the downward action when present in the 1st row and 2nd column of the
second table. When the agent takes the downward action, there is a 1/3 chance of
it taking the optimal action in the next state. Hence, the value of taking a
downward action is as follows:
In a similar manner, we can obtain the values of taking different possible actions
in different cells.
Now that we know how the values of various actions in a given state are
calculated, in the next section, we will learn about Q-learning and how we can
leverage it, along with the Gym environment, so that it can play various games.
Implementing Q-learning
In the previous section, we manually calculated the state-action values for all
combinations. Technically, now that we have calculated the various state-action
values we need, we can now identify the action that will be taken in every state.
However, in the case of a more complex scenario – for example, when playing
video games – it gets tricky to fetch state information. OpenAI's Gym
environment comes in handy in this scenario. It contains a pre-defined
environment for the game we're playing. Here, it fetches the next state
information, given an action that's been taken in the current state. So far, we have
considered the scenario of choosing the most optimal path. However, there can be
scenarios where we are stuck at the local minima.
In this section, we will learn about Q-learning, which helps with calculating the
value associated with the action in a state, as well as about leveraging the Gym
environment so that we can play various games. For now, we'll take a look at a
simple game called Frozen Lake. We'll also take a look at exploration-exploitation,

--- Strana 763 ---
which helps us avoid getting stuck at the local minima. However, before we do
that, we will learn about the Q-value.
Q-value
The Q in Q-learning or Q-value represents the quality of an action. Let's learn how
to calculate it:
We already know that we must keep updating the state-action value of a given
state until it is saturated. Hence, we'll modify the preceding formula like so:
In the preceding equation, we replace 1 with the learning rate so that we can
update the value of the action that's taken in a state more gradually:
With this formal definition of Q-value in place, in the next section, we'll learn
about the Gym environment and how it helps us fetch the Q-table (which stores
information about the values of various actions that have been taken at various
states) and thus come up with the optimal actions in a state.

--- Strana 764 ---
Understanding the Gym environment
In this section, we will explore the Gym environment and the various
functionalities present in it while playing the Frozen Lake game present in the
Gym environment:
The following code is available as Understanding_the_Gym_environment.ipynb in the Chapter16 folder of
this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1. Import the relevant packages:
import numpy as np
import gym
import random
2. Print the various environments present in the Gym environment:
from gym import envs
print(envs.registry.all())
The preceding code prints a dictionary containing all the games available
within Gym.
3. Create an environment for the chosen game:
env = gym.make('FrozenLake-v0', is_slippery=False)
4. Inspect the created environment:
env.render()
The preceding code results in the following output:
 
In the preceding image, the agent starts at S. Here, F specifies that the cell
is frozen, while H specifies that the cell has a hole in it. The agent gets a

--- Strana 765 ---
reward of 0 if it goes to cell H and the game is terminated. The objective of
the game is for the agent to reach G.
5. Print the size of the observation space (number of states) in the game:
env.observation_space.n
The preceding code gives us an output of 16. This represents the 16 cells
that the game has.
6. Print the number of possible actions:
env.action_space.n
The preceding code results in a value of 4, which represents the four
possible actions that can be taken.
7. Sample a random action at a given state:
env.action_space.sample()
.sample() specifies that we fetch one of the possible four actions in a given
state. The scalar corresponding to each action can be associated with the
name of the action. We can do this by inspecting the code in GitHub: http
s://github.com/openai/gym/blob/master/gym/envs/toy_text/frozen_lake.py.
8. Reset the environment to its original state:
env.reset()
9. Take (step) an action:
env.step(env.action_space.sample())
The preceding code fetches the next state, the reward, the flag that states whether
the game was completed, and additional information. We can execute the game
with .step since the environment readily provides the next state when it's given a
step with an action.
These steps form the basis for us to build a Q-table that dictates the optimal action
to be taken in each state. We'll do this in the next section.
Building a Q-table

--- Strana 766 ---
In the previous section, we learned how to calculate Q-values for various state-
action pairs manually. In this section, we will leverage the Gym environment and
the various modules associated with it to populate the Q-table – where rows
represent the states that an agent can be in and columns represent the actions the
agent can take. The values of the Q-table represent the Q-values of taking an
action in a given state.
We can populate the values of the Q-table using the following strategy:
1. Initialize the game environment and the Q-table with zeros.
2. Take a random action and fetch the next state, reward, the flag stating
whether the game was completed, and additional information.
3. Update the Q-value using the Bellman equation we defined earlier.
4. Repeat steps 2 and 3 so that there's a maximum of 50 steps in an episode.
5. Repeat steps 2, 3, and 4 over multiple episodes.
Let's code up the preceding strategy:
The following code is available as Building_Q_table.ipynb in the Chapter16 folder in this book's
GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt 
1. Initialize the game environment:
import numpy as np
import gym
import random
env = gym.make('FrozenLake-v0', is_slippery=False)
Initialize the Q-table with zeros:
action_size=env.action_space.n
state_size=env.observation_space.n
qtable=np.zeros((state_size,action_size))
The preceding code checks the possible actions and states that can be
used to build a Q-table. The Q-table's dimension should be the number
of states multiplied by the number of actions.
2. Play multiple episodes while taking a random action. Here, we reset the
environment at the end of every episode:
episode_rewards = []
for i in range(10000):
    state=env.reset()
Take a maximum of 50 steps per episode:

--- Strana 767 ---
    total_rewards = 0
    for step in range(50):
We are considering a maximum of 50 steps per episode as it's possible
for the agent to keep oscillating between two states forever (think of
left and right actions being performed consecutively forever). Thus, we
need to specify the maximum number of steps an agent can take.
Sample a random action and take (step) it:
        action=env.action_space.sample()
        new_state,reward,done,info=env.step(action)
Update the Q-value that corresponds to the state and the action:
qtable[state,action]+=0.1*(reward+0.9*np.max(\
                            qtable[new_state,:]) \
                           -qtable[state,action])
In the preceding code, we specified that the learning rate is 0.1 and that
were are updating the Q-value of a state-action combination by taking
the maximum Q-value of the next state (np.max(qtable[new_state,:])) into
consideration.
Update the state value to new_state, which we obtained previously, and
accumulate reward into total_rewards:
        state=new_state
        total_rewards+=reward
Place the rewards in a list (episode_rewards) and print the Q-table (qtable):
    episode_rewards.append(total_rewards)
print(qtable)
The preceding code fetches the Q-values of various actions in a state:

--- Strana 768 ---
We will learn about how the obtained Q-table is leveraged in the next section.
So far, we have kept taking a random action every time. However, in a realistic
scenario, once we have learned that certain actions can't be taken in certain states
and vice versa, we don't need to take a random action anymore. The concept of
exploration-exploitation comes in handy in such a scenario.
Leveraging exploration-exploitation
In the previous section, we explored the possible actions we can take in a given
space. In this section, we will learn about the concept of exploration-exploitation,
which can be described as follows:
Exploration is a strategy where we learn what needs to be done (what action
to take) in a given state.
Exploitation is a strategy where we leverage what has already been learned;
that is, which action to take in a given state.
During the initial stages, it is ideal to have a high amount of exploration as the
agent won't know what optimal actions to take initially. Through the episodes, as

--- Strana 769 ---
the agent learns the Q-values of various state-action combinations over time, we
must leverage exploitation to perform the action that leads to a high reward.
With this intuition in place, let's modify the Q-value calculation that we built in
the previous section so that it includes exploration and exploitation:
episode_rewards = []
epsilon=1
max_epsilon=1
min_epsilon=0.01
decay_rate=0.005
for episode in range(1000):
    state=env.reset()
    total_rewards = 0
    for step in range(50):
        exp_exp_tradeoff=random.uniform(0,1)
        ## Exploitation:
        if exp_exp_tradeoff>epsilon:
            action=np.argmax(qtable[state,:])
        else:
            ## Exploration
            action=env.action_space.sample()
        new_state,reward,done,info=env.step(action)
        qtable[state,action]+=0.9*(reward+0.9*np.max(\
                                  qtable[new_state,:])\
                                   -qtable[state,action])
        state=new_state
        total_rewards+=reward
    episode_rewards.append(total_rewards)
    epsilon=min_epsilon+(max_epsilon-min_epsilon)\
                            *np.exp(decay_rate*episode)
print(qtable)
The bold lines in the preceding code are what's been added to the code that was
shown in the previous section. Within this code, we are specifying that, over
increasing episodes, we perform more exploitation than exploration.
Once we've obtained the Q-table, we can leverage it to identify the steps that the
agent needs to take to reach its destination:
env.reset()
for episode in range(1):
    state=env.reset()
    step=0
    done=False
    print("-----------------------")
    print("Episode",episode)
    for step in range(50):
        env.render()
        action=np.argmax(qtable[state,:])
        print(action)
        new_state,reward,done,info=env.step(action) 
        if done:
            print("Number of Steps",step+1)
            break
        state=new_state
env.close()

--- Strana 770 ---
In the preceding code, we are fetching the current state that the agent is in,
identifying the action that results in a maximum value in the given state-action
combination, taking the action (step) to fetch the new_state object that the agent
would be in, and repeating these steps until the game is complete (terminated).
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 771 ---
Note that this is a simplified example since the state spaces are discrete, resulting
in us building a Q-table. What if the state spaces are continuous (for example, the

--- Strana 772 ---
state space is a snapshot image of a game's current state)? Building a Q-table
becomes very difficult (as the number of possible states is very large). Deep Q-
learning comes in handy in such a scenario. We'll learn about this in the next
section.
Implementing deep Q-learning
So far, we have learned how to build a Q-table, which provides values that
correspond to a given state-action combination by replaying a game – in this case,
the Frozen Lake game – over multiple episodes. However, when the state spaces
are continuous (such as a snapshot of a game of Pong), the number of possible
state spaces becomes huge. We will address this in this section, as well as the ones
to follow, using deep Q-learning. In this section, we will learn how to estimate the
Q-value of a state-action combination without a Q-table by using a neural network
– hence the term deep Q-learning.
Compared to a Q-table, deep Q-learning leverages a neural network to map any
given state-action (where the state can be continuous or discrete) combination to
Q-values.
For this exercise, we will work on the CartPole environment in Gym. Here, our
task is to balance the CartPole for as long as possible. The following image shows
what the CartPole environment looks like:

--- Strana 773 ---
Note that the pole shifts to the left when the cart moves to the right and vice versa.
Each state within this environment is defined using four observations, whose
names and minimum and maximum values are as follows:
Observation
Minimum Value
Maximum Value
Cart position
-2.4
2.4
Cart velocity
-inf
inf
Pole angle
-41.8°
41.8°
Pole velocity at the tip
-inf
inf
 
Note that all the observations that represent a state have continuous values.
At a high level, deep Q-learning for the game of CartPole balancing works as
follows:
1. Fetch the input values (image of the game/metadata of the game).
2. Pass the input values through a network that has as many outputs as there are
possible actions.
3. The output layers predict the action values that correspond to taking an action
in a given state.

--- Strana 774 ---
A high-level overview of the network architecture is as follows:
In the preceding image, the network architecture uses the state (four observations)
as input and the Q-value of taking left and right actions in the current state as
output. We train the neural network as follows:
1. During the exploration phase, we perform a random action that has the
highest value in the output layer.
2. Then, we store the action, the next state, the reward, and the flag stating
whether the game was complete in memory.
3. In a given state, if the game is not complete, the Q-value of taking an action
in a given state will be calculated; that is, reward + discount factor x
maximum possible Q-value of all actions in the next state.
4. The Q-values of the current state-action combinations remain unchanged
except for the action that is taken in step 2.
5. Perform steps 1 to 4 multiple times and store the experiences.

--- Strana 775 ---
6. Fit a model that takes the state as input and the action values as the expected
outputs (from memory and replay experience) and minimize the MSE loss.
7. Repeat the preceding steps over multiple episodes while decreasing the
exploration rate.
With the preceding strategy in place, let's code up deep Q-learning so that we can
perform CartPole balancing:
The following code is available as Deep_Q_Learning_Cart_Pole_balancing.ipynb in the Chapter16 folder
in this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code contains URLs to download
data from and is moderately lengthy. We strongly recommend you to execute the notebook in
GitHub to reproduce results while you understand the steps to perform and explanation of
various code components from text.
1. Import the relevant packages:
import gym
import numpy as np
import cv2
from collections import deque
import torch
import torch.nn as nn
import torch.nn.functional as F
import random
from collections import namedtuple, deque
import torch.optim as optim
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
2. Define the environment:
env = gym.make('CartPole-v1')
3. Define the network architecture:
class DQNetwork(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, state_size, action_size):
        super(DQNetwork, self).__init__()
        
        self.fc1 = nn.Linear(state_size, 24)
        self.fc2 = nn.Linear(24, 24)
        self.fc3 = nn.Linear(24, action_size)
        
    def forward(self, state):       
        x = F.relu(self.fc1(state))
        x = F.relu(self.fc2(x))
        x = self.fc3(x)
        return x
Note that the architecture is fairly simple since it only contains 24 units in
the two hidden layers. The output layer contains as many units as there are
possible actions.

--- Strana 776 ---
4. Define the Agent class, as follows:
Define the __init__ method with the various parameters, network, and
experience defined:
class Agent():
    def __init__(self, state_size, action_size):
        
        self.state_size = state_size
        self.action_size = action_size
        self.seed = random.seed(0)
        ## hyperparameters
        self.buffer_size = 2000
        self.batch_size = 64
        self.gamma = 0.99
        self.lr = 0.0025
        self.update_every = 4 
        # Q-Network
        self.local = DQNetwork(state_size, action_size)\
                                        .to(device)
        self.optimizer=optim.Adam(self.local.parameters(), \
                                        lr=self.lr)
        # Replay memory
        self.memory = deque(maxlen=self.buffer_size) 
        self.experience = namedtuple("Experience", \
                            field_names=["state", "action", \
                             "reward", "next_state", "done"])
        self.t_step = 0
Define the step function, which fetches data from memory and fits it to
the model by calling the learn function:
    def step(self, state, action, reward, next_state, done):
        # Save experience in replay memory
        self.memory.append(self.experience(state, action, \
                                    reward, next_state, done)) 
        # Learn every update_every time steps.
        self.t_step = (self.t_step + 1) % self.update_every
        if self.t_step == 0:
        # If enough samples are available in memory, 
        # get random subset and learn
            if len(self.memory) > self.batch_size:
                experiences = self.sample_experiences()
                self.learn(experiences, self.gamma)
Define the act function, which predicts an action, given a state:
    def act(self, state, eps=0.):
        # Epsilon-greedy action selection
        if random.random() > eps:
            state = torch.from_numpy(state).float()\
                         .unsqueeze(0).to(device)
            self.local.eval()
            with torch.no_grad():
                action_values = self.local(state)
            self.local.train()
            return np.argmax(action_values.cpu().data.numpy())

--- Strana 777 ---
        else:
            return random.choice(np.arange(self.action_size))
Note that in the preceding code, we are performing exploration-
exploitation while determining the action to take.
Define the learn function, which fits the model so that it predicts action
values when given a state:
    def learn(self, experiences, gamma): 
        states,actions,rewards,next_states,dones= experiences
        # Get expected Q values from local model
        Q_expected = self.local(states).gather(1, actions)
        # Get max predicted Q values (for next states) 
        # from local model
        Q_targets_next = self.local(next_states).detach()\
                             .max(1)[0].unsqueeze(1)
        # Compute Q targets for current states 
        Q_targets = rewards+(gamma*Q_targets_next*(1-dones))
        
        # Compute loss
        loss = F.mse_loss(Q_expected, Q_targets)
        # Minimize the loss
        self.optimizer.zero_grad()
        loss.backward()
        self.optimizer.step()
In the preceding code, we are fetching the sampled experiences and
predicting the Q-value of the action we performed. Furthermore, given
that we already know the next state, we can predict the best Q-value of
the actions in the next state. This way, we now know the target value
that corresponds to the action that was taken in a given state.
Finally, we'll compute the loss between the expected value (Q_targets)
and the predicted value (Q_expected) of the Q-value of the action that was
taken in the current state.
Define the sample_experiences function in order to sample experiences from
memory:
    def sample_experiences(self):
        experiences = random.sample(self.memory, \
                                    k=self.batch_size) 
        states = torch.from_numpy(np.vstack([e.state \
                    for e in experiences if e is not None]))\
                        .float().to(device)
        actions = torch.from_numpy(np.vstack([e.action \
                    for e in experiences if e is not None]))\
                        .long().to(device)
        rewards = torch.from_numpy(np.vstack([e.reward \
                    for e in experiences if e is not None]))\
                        .float().to(device)

--- Strana 778 ---
        next_states=torch.from_numpy(np.vstack([e.next_state \
                    for e in experiences if e is not None]))\
                        .float().to(device)
        dones = torch.from_numpy(np.vstack([e.done \
                    for e in experiences if e is not None])\
                        .astype(np.uint8)).float().to(device) 
        return (states, actions, rewards, next_states, dones)
5. Define the agent object:
agent = Agent(env.observation_space.shape[0], \
              env.action_space.n)
6. Perform deep Q-learning, as follows:
Initialize your lists:
scores = [] # list containing scores from each episode
scores_window = deque(maxlen=100) # last 100 scores
n_episodes=5000
max_t=5000
eps_start=1.0
eps_end=0.001
eps_decay=0.9995
eps = eps_start
Reset the environment in each episode and fetch the state's shape.
Furthermore, reshape it so that we can pass it to a network:
for i_episode in range(1, n_episodes+1):
    state = env.reset()
    state_size = env.observation_space.shape[0]
    state = np.reshape(state, [1, state_size])
    score = 0
Loop through max_t time steps, identify the action to be performed, and
perform (step) it. Next, reshape it so that the reshaped state is passed to
the neural network:
    for i in range(max_t):
        action = agent.act(state, eps)
        next_state, reward, done, _ = env.step(action)
        next_state = np.reshape(next_state, [1, state_size])
Fit the model by specifying agent.step on top of the current state and
resetting the state to the next state so that it can be useful in the next
iteration:
        reward = reward if not done or score == 499 else -10
        agent.step(state, action, reward, next_state, done)
        state = next_state
        score += reward
        if done:
            break 

--- Strana 779 ---
Store, print periodically, and stop training if the mean of the scores in the
previous 10 steps is greater than 450:
    scores_window.append(score) # save most recent score 
    scores.append(score) # save most recent score
    eps = max(eps_end, eps_decay*eps) # decrease epsilon
    print('\rEpisode {}\tReward {} \tAverage Score: {:.2f} \
         \tEpsilon: {}'.format(i_episode,score, \
                        np.mean(scores_window), eps), end="")
    if i_episode % 100 == 0:
        print('\rEpisode {}\tAverage Score: {:.2f} \
        \tEpsilon: {}'.format(i_episode, \
                              np.mean(scores_window), eps))
    if i_episode>10 and np.mean(scores[-10:])>450:
        break
6. Plot the variation in scores over increasing episodes:
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
plt.plot(scores)
plt.title('Scores over increasing episodes')
A plot showing the variation of scores over episodes is as follows:

--- Strana 780 ---
From the preceding image, we can see that, after episode 2000, the model attained
a high score when balancing the CartPole. 
Now that we have learned how to implement deep Q-learning, in the next section,
we will learn how to work on a different state space – a video frame in Pong –
instead of the four state spaces that define the state in the CartPole environment.
We will also learn how to implement deep Q-learning with the fixed targets model.
Implementing deep Q-learning with
the fixed targets model
In the previous section, we learned how to leverage deep Q-learning to solve the
CartPole environment in Gym. In this section, we will work on a more
complicated game of Pong and understand how deep Q-learning, alongside the
fixed targets model, can solve the game. While working on this use case, you will
also learn how to leverage a CNN-based model (in place of the vanilla neural
network we used in the previous section) to solve the problem.
The objective of this use case is to build an agent that can play against a computer
(a pre-trained, non-learning agent) and beat it in a game of Pong, where the agent
is expected to achieve a score of 21 points.
The strategy that we will adopt to solve the problem of creating a successful agent
for the game of Pong is as follows:
Crop the irrelevant portion of the image in order to fetch the current frame (state):

--- Strana 781 ---
Note that, in the preceding image, we have taken the original image and cropped
the top and bottom pixels of the original image in the processed image:
Stack four consecutive frames – the agent needs the sequence of states to
understand whether the ball is approaching it or not.
Let the agent play by taking random actions initially and keep collecting the
current state, future state, action taken, and rewards in memory. Only keep
information about the last 10,000 actions in memory and flush the historical
ones beyond 10,000.
Build a network (local network) that takes a sample of states from memory
and predicts the values of the possible actions.
Define another network (target network) that is a replica of the local network.
Update the target network every 1,000 times the local network is updated.
The weights of the target network at the end of every 1,000 epochs are the
same as the weights of the local network.
Leverage the target network to calculate the Q-value of the best action in the
next state.
For the action that the local network suggests, we expect it to predict the
summation of the immediate reward and the Q-value of the best action in the
next state.

--- Strana 782 ---
Minimize the MSE loss of the local network.
Let the agent keep playing until it maximizes its rewards.
With the preceding strategy in place, we can now code up the agent so that it
maximizes its rewards when playing Pong.
Coding up an agent to play Pong
Follow these steps to code up the agent so that it self-learns how to play Pong:
The following code is available as Pong_Deep_Q_Learning_with_Fixed_targets.ipynb in the Chapter16
folder in this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt The code contains URLs to
download data from and is moderately lengthy. We strongly recommend you to execute the
notebook in GitHub to reproduce results while you understand the steps to perform and
explanation of various code components from text.
1. Import the relevant packages and set up the game environment:
import gym
import numpy as np
import cv2
from collections import deque
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import torch
import torch.nn as nn
import torch.nn.functional as F
import random
from collections import namedtuple, deque
import torch.optim as optim
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
env = gym.make('PongDeterministic-v0')
2. Define the state size and action size:
state_size = env.observation_space.shape[0]
action_size = env.action_space.n
3. Define a function that will pre-process a frame so that it removes the bottom
and top pixels that are irrelevant:
def preprocess_frame(frame): 
    bkg_color = np.array([144, 72, 17])
    img = np.mean(frame[34:-16:2,::2]-bkg_color,axis=-1)/255.
    resized_image = img
    return resized_image
4. Define a function that will stack four consecutive frames, as follows:

--- Strana 783 ---
The function takes stacked_frames, the current state, and the flag of
is_new_episode as input:
def stack_frames(stacked_frames, state, is_new_episode):
    # Preprocess frame
    frame = preprocess_frame(state)
    stack_size = 4
If the episode is new, we will start with a stack of initial frames:
    if is_new_episode:
        # Clear our stacked_frames
        stacked_frames = deque([np.zeros((80,80), \
                         dtype=np.uint8) for i in \
                            range(stack_size)], maxlen=4)
        # Because we're in a new episode, 
        # copy the same frame 4x
        for i in range(stack_size):
            stacked_frames.append(frame) 
        # Stack the frames
        stacked_state = np.stack(stacked_frames, \
                                 axis=2).transpose(2, 0, 1)
If the episode is not new, we'll remove the oldest frame from stacked_frames
and append the latest frame:
    else:
        # Append frame to deque, 
        # automatically removes the #oldest frame
        stacked_frames.append(frame)
        # Build the stacked state 
        # (first dimension specifies #different frames)
        stacked_state = np.stack(stacked_frames, \
                                 axis=2).transpose(2, 0, 1) 
    return stacked_state, stacked_frames
5. Define the network architecture; that is, DQNetwork:
class DQNetwork(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, states, action_size):
        super(DQNetwork, self).__init__()
        
        self.conv1 = nn.Conv2d(4, 32, (8, 8), stride=4)
        self.conv2 = nn.Conv2d(32, 64, (4, 4), stride=2)
        self.conv3 = nn.Conv2d(64, 64, (3, 3), stride=1)
        self.flatten = nn.Flatten()
        self.fc1 = nn.Linear(2304, 512)
        self.fc2 = nn.Linear(512, action_size)
        
    def forward(self, state): 
        x = F.relu(self.conv1(state))
        x = F.relu(self.conv2(x))
        x = F.relu(self.conv3(x))
        x = self.flatten(x)
        x = F.relu(self.fc1(x))
        x = self.fc2(x)
        return x
6. Define the Agent class, as we did in the previous section, as follows:

--- Strana 784 ---
Define the __init__ method:
class Agent():
    def __init__(self, state_size, action_size):
        
        self.state_size = state_size
        self.action_size = action_size
        self.seed = random.seed(0)
        ## hyperparameters
        self.buffer_size = 10000
        self.batch_size = 32
        self.gamma = 0.99
        self.lr = 0.0001
        self.update_every = 4
        self.update_every_target = 1000 
        self.learn_every_target_counter = 0
        # Q-Network
        self.local = DQNetwork(state_size, \
                               action_size).to(device)
        self.target = DQNetwork(state_size, \
                                action_size).to(device)
        self.optimizer=optim.Adam(self.local.parameters(), \
                                    lr=self.lr)
        # Replay memory
        self.memory = deque(maxlen=self.buffer_size) 
        self.experience = namedtuple("Experience", \
                            field_names=["state", "action", \
                            "reward", "next_state", "done"])
        # Initialize time step (for updating every few steps)
        self.t_step = 0
Note that the only addition we've made to the __init__ method in the
preceding code, compared to the code provided in the previous section,
is the target network and the frequency with which the target network is
to be updated (these lines have been shown in bold in the preceding
code).
Define the method that will update the weights (step), just like we did in
the previous section:
    def step(self, state, action, reward, next_state, done):
        # Save experience in replay memory
        self.memory.append(self.experience(state[None], \
                                    action, reward, \
                                    next_state[None], done))
        
        # Learn every update_every time steps.
        self.t_step = (self.t_step + 1) % self.update_every
        if self.t_step == 0:
    # If enough samples are available in memory, get random 
    # subset and learn
            if len(self.memory) > self.batch_size:
                experiences = self.sample_experiences()
                self.learn(experiences, self.gamma)

--- Strana 785 ---
Define the act method, which will fetch the action to be performed in a
given state:
    def act(self, state, eps=0.):
        # Epsilon-greedy action selection
        if random.random() > eps:
            state = torch.from_numpy(state).float()\
                         .unsqueeze(0).to(device)
            self.local.eval()
            with torch.no_grad():
                action_values = self.local(state)
            self.local.train()
            return np.argmax(action_values.cpu()\
                                          .data.numpy())
        else:
            return random.choice(np.arange(self.action_size))
Define the learn function, which will train the local model:
    def learn(self, experiences, gamma):
        self.learn_every_target_counter+=1
        states,actions,rewards,next_states,dones = experiences
        # Get expected Q values from local model
        Q_expected = self.local(states).gather(1, actions)
        # Get max predicted Q values (for next states) 
        # from target model
        Q_targets_next = self.target(next_states).detach()\
                             .max(1)[0].unsqueeze(1)
        # Compute Q targets for current state
        Q_targets = rewards+(gamma*Q_targets_next*(1-dones))
        
        # Compute loss
        loss = F.mse_loss(Q_expected, Q_targets)
        # Minimize the loss
        self.optimizer.zero_grad()
        loss.backward()
        self.optimizer.step()
        # ------------ update target network ------------- #
        if self.learn_every_target_counter%1000 ==0:
            self.target_update() 
Note that, in the preceding code, Q_targets_next is predicted using the
target model instead of the local model that was used in the previous
section. We are also updating the target network after every 1,000
steps, where learn_every_target_counter is the counter that helps in
identifying whether we should update the target model.
Define a function (target_update) that will update the target model:
    def target_update(self):
        print('target updating')
        self.target.load_state_dict(self.local.state_dict())
Define a function that will sample experiences from memory:

--- Strana 786 ---
    def sample_experiences(self):
        experiences = random.sample(self.memory, \
                                    k=self.batch_size) 
        states = torch.from_numpy(np.vstack([e.state \
                    for e in experiences if e is not None]))\
                                    .float().to(device)
        actions = torch.from_numpy(np.vstack([e.action \
                    for e in experiences if e is not None]))\
                                    .long().to(device)
        rewards = torch.from_numpy(np.vstack([e.reward \
                    for e in experiences if e is not None]))\
                                    .float().to(device)
        next_states=torch.from_numpy(np.vstack([e.next_state \
                     for e in experiences if e is not None]))\
                                    .float().to(device)
        dones = torch.from_numpy(np.vstack([e.done \
                    for e in experiences if e is not None])\
                        .astype(np.uint8)).float().to(device) 
        return (states, actions, rewards, next_states, dones)
7. Define the Agent object:
agent = Agent(state_size, action_size)
8. Define the parameters that will be used to train the agent:
n_episodes=5000
max_t=5000
eps_start=1.0
eps_end=0.02
eps_decay=0.995
scores = [] # list containing scores from each episode
scores_window = deque(maxlen=100) # last 100 scores
eps = eps_start
stack_size = 4
stacked_frames = deque([np.zeros((80,80), dtype=np.int) \
                        for i in range(stack_size)], \
                       maxlen=stack_size) 
9. Train the agent over increasing episodes, as we did in the previous section:
for i_episode in range(1, n_episodes+1):
    state = env.reset()
    state, frames = stack_frames(stacked_frames, \
                                 state, True)
    score = 0
    for i in range(max_t):
        action = agent.act(state, eps)
        next_state, reward, done, _ = env.step(action)
        next_state, frames = stack_frames(frames, \
                                          next_state, False)
        agent.step(state, action, reward, next_state, done)
        state = next_state
        score += reward
        if done:
            break 
    scores_window.append(score) # save most recent score
    scores.append(score) # save most recent score
    eps = max(eps_end, eps_decay*eps) # decrease epsilon
    print('\rEpisode {}\tReward {} \tAverage Score: {:.2f} \
    \tEpsilon: {}'.format(i_episode,score,\
                          np.mean(scores_window),eps),end="")

--- Strana 787 ---
    if i_episode % 100 == 0:
        print('\rEpisode {}\tAverage Score: {:.2f} \
        \tEpsilon: {}'.format(i_episode, \
                              np.mean(scores_window), eps))
The following plot shows the variation of scores over increasing episodes:
From the preceding image, we can see that the agent gradually learned to play
Pong and that by the end of 800 episodes, it learned how to play Pong while
receiving a high reward.
Now that we've trained an agent to play Pong well, in the next section, we will
train an agent so that it can drive a car autonomously in a simulated environment.
Implementing an agent to perform
autonomous driving
Now that you have seen RL working in progressively challenging environments,
we will conclude this chapter by demonstrating that the same concepts can be
applied to a self-driving car. Since it is impractical to see this working on an actual
car, we will resort to a simulated environment. The environment is going to be a

--- Strana 788 ---
full-fledged city of traffic, with cars and additional details within the image of a
road. The actor (agent) is a car. The inputs to the car are going to be various
sensory inputs such as a dashcam, Light Detection And Ranging (LIDAR)
sensors, and GPS coordinates. The outputs are going to be how fast/slow the car
will move, along with the level of steering. This simulation will attempt to be an
accurate representation of real-world physics. Thus, note that the fundamentals
will remain the same, whether it is a car simulation or a real car.
Note that the environment we are going to install needs a graphical user interface (GUI) to
display the simulation. Also, the training will take at least a day, if not more. Because of the
non-availability of a visual setup and the time usage limits of Google-Colab, we will not be
using Google-Colab notebooks as we have been doing so far. This is the only section of this
book that requires an active Linux operating system, and preferably a GPU to achieve
acceptable results in a few days of training.
Installing the CARLA environment
As we mentioned previously, we need an environment that can simulate complex
interactions to make us believe that we are, in fact, dealing with a realistic
scenario. CARLA is one such environment. The environment author stated the
following about CARLA:
"CARLA has been developed from the ground up to support development, training, and validation of
autonomous driving systems. In addition to open source code and protocols, CARLA provides open digital
assets (urban layouts, buildings, and vehicles) that were created for this purpose and can be used freely. The
simulation platform supports flexible specification of sensor suites, environmental conditions, full control of
all static and dynamic actors, maps generation, and much more." 
There are two steps we need to follow to install the environment:
1. Install the CARLA binaries for the simulation environment.
2. Install the Gym version, which provides Python connectivity for the
simulation environment.
The steps for this section have been presented as a video walkthrough here: https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-
self-driving-agent.
Let's get started!
Install the CARLA binaries
In this section, we will learn how to install the necessary CARLA binaries:

--- Strana 789 ---
1. Visit https://github.com/carla-simulator/carla/releases/tag/0.9.6 and download
the CARLA_0.9.6.tar.gz compiled version file. 
2. Move it to a location where you want CARLA to live in your system and
unzip it. Here, we are demonstrating this by downloading and unzipping
CARLA into the Documents folder:
$ mv CARLA_0.9.6.tar.gz ~/Documents/
$ cd ~/Documents/
$ tar -xf CARLA_0.9.6.tar.gz
$ cd CARLA_0.9.6/
3. Add CARLA to PYTHONPATH so that any module on your machine can import
CARLA:
$ echo "export 
PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:/home/$(whoami)/Documents/CARLA_0.9.6/PythonAPI/carla/dist
/carla-0.9.6-py3.5-linux-x86_64.egg" >> ~/.bashrc
In the preceding code, we added the directory containing CARLA to a globa
variable called PYTHONPATH, which is an environment variable for accessing all
Python modules. Adding it to ~/.bashrc will ensure that every time a Terminal
opened, it can access this new folder. After running the preceding code, resta
Terminal and run ipython -c "import carla; carla.__spec__". You should get the
following output:
4. Finally, provide the necessary permissions and execute CARLA, as follows:
$ chmod +x /home/$(whoami)/Documents/CARLA_0.9.6/CarlaUE4.sh
$ ./home/$(whoami)/Documents/CARLA_0.9.6/CarlaUE4.sh
After a minute or two, you should see a window similar to the following
showing CARLA running as a simulation, ready to take inputs:

--- Strana 790 ---
In this section, we've verified that CARLA is a simulation environment whose binaries
are working as expected. Let's move on to installing the Gym environment for it.
Leave the Terminal running as-is since we need the binary to be running in the
background throughout this exercise.
Installing the CARLA Gym environment
Since there is no official Gym environment, we will take advantage of a user
implemented GitHub repository and install the Gym environment for CARLA
from there. Follow these steps to install CARLA's Gym environment:
1. Clone the Gym repository to a location of your choice and install the library:
$ cd /location/to/clone/repo/to
$ git clone https://github.com/cjy1992/gym-carla
$ cd gym-carla
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
$ pip install -e .
2. Test your setup by running the following command:
$ python test.py
A window similar to the following should open, showing that we have
added a fake car to the environment. From here, we can monitor the top
view, the LIDAR sensor point cloud, and our dashcam:

--- Strana 791 ---
Here, we can observe the following:
The first view contains a view that is very similar to what vehicle GPS
systems show in a car; that is, our vehicle, the various waypoints, and the
road lanes.  However, we shall not use this input for training as it also shows
other cars in the view, which is unrealistic.
The second view is more interesting. Some consider it as the eye of a self-
driving car. LIDAR emits pulsed light into the surrounding environment (in
all directions), multiple times every second. It captures the reflected light to
determine how far the nearest obstacle is in that direction. The onboard
computer collates all the nearest obstacle information to recreate a 3D point
cloud that gives it a 3D understanding of its environment.
In both the first and second views, we can see there is a strip ahead of the car.
This is a waypoint indication of where the car is supposed to go.
The third view is a simple dashboard camera.
Apart from these three, CARLA provides additional sensor data, such as the
following:
lateral-distance (deviation from the lane it should be in)
delta-yaw (angle with respect to the road ahead)

--- Strana 792 ---
speed
If there's a hazardous obstacle in front of the vehicle
And many more...
We are going to use the first four sensors mentioned previously, along with
LIDAR and our dashcam, to train the model.
We are now ready to understand the components of CARLA and create a DQN
model for a self-driving car. 
Training a self-driving agent
We will create two files before we start the training process in a notebook; that
is, model.py and actor.py. These will contain the model architecture and the Agent
class, respectively. The Agent class contains the various methods we'll use to train
an agent.
The code instructions for this section are present in the Chapter16 folder of this book's GitHub
repository as Carla.md.
model.py
This is going to be a PyTorch model that will accept the image that's provided to
it, as well as other sensor inputs. It will be expected to return the most likely
action:
from torch_snippets import *
class DQNetworkImageSensor(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
        self.n_outputs = 9
        self.image_branch = nn.Sequential(
                            nn.Conv2d(3, 32, (8, 8), stride=4), 
                            nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
                            nn.Conv2d(32, 64, (4, 4), stride=2), 
                            nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
                            nn.Conv2d(64,128,(3, 3),stride=1), 
                            nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
                            nn.AvgPool2d(8), 
                            nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
                            nn.Flatten(),
                            nn.Linear(1152, 512), 
                            nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
                            nn.Linear(512, self.n_outputs)
                        )
        self.lidar_branch = nn.Sequential(
                            nn.Conv2d(3, 32, (8, 8), stride=4), 

--- Strana 793 ---
                            nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
                            nn.Conv2d(32,64,(4, 4),stride=2), 
                            nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
                            nn.Conv2d(64,128,(3, 3),stride=1), 
                            nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
                            nn.AvgPool2d(8), 
                            nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
                            nn.Flatten(),
                            nn.Linear(1152, 512), 
                            nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
                            nn.Linear(512, self.n_outputs)
                        )
        self.sensor_branch = nn.Sequential(
                                nn.Linear(4, 64), 
                                nn.ReLU(inplace=True),
                                nn.Linear(64, self.n_outputs)
                            )
    def forward(self, image, lidar=None, sensor=None):
        x = self.image_branch(image)
        if lidar is None:
            y = 0
        else:
            y = self.lidar_branch(lidar)
        z = self.sensor_branch(sensor)
        return x + y + z
As you can see, there are more types of data being fed into the forward method
than in the previous sections, where we were just accepting an image as
input. self.image_branch is going to expect the image coming from the dashcam of
the car, while self.lidar_branch will accept the image that's generated by the LIDAR
sensor. Finally, self.sensor_branch will accept four sensor inputs in the form of a
NumPy array. These four items are the lateral-distance (deviation from the lane it
is supposed to be in), delta-yaw (angle with respect to the road ahead), speed, and
if there's a hazardous obstacle at the front of the vehicle, respectively. See line
number 543 in gym_carla/envs/carla_env.py (the repository that has been git cloned)
for the same outputs. Using a different branch in the neural network will let the
module provide different levels of importance for each sensor, and the outputs are
summed up as the final output. Note that there are 9 outputs; we will look at these
later.
actor.py
Much like the previous sections, we will use some code to store replay
information and play it back when training is necessary:
1. Let's get the imports and hyperparameters in place:
import numpy as np
import random

--- Strana 794 ---
from collections import namedtuple, deque
import torch
import torch.nn.functional as F
import torch.optim as optim
from model1 import DQNetworkImageSensor
BUFFER_SIZE = int(1e3) # replay buffer size
BATCH_SIZE = 256 # minibatch size
GAMMA = 0.99 # discount factor
TAU = 1e-2 # for soft update of target parameters
LR = 5e-4 # learning rate 
UPDATE_EVERY = 50 # how often to update the network
ACTION_SIZE = 2
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
2. Next, we'll initialize the target and local networks. No changes have been
made to the code from the previous section here, except for the module that is
being imported:
class Actor():
    def __init__(self):        
        # Q-Network
        self.qnetwork_local=DQNetworkImageSensor().to(device)
        self.qnetwork_target=DQNetworkImageSensor().to(device)
        self.optimizer = optim.Adam(self.qnetwork_local\
                                    .parameters(),lr=LR)
        # Replay memory
        self.memory= ReplayBuffer(ACTION_SIZE,BUFFER_SIZE, \
                                   BATCH_SIZE, 10)
        # Initialize time step 
        # (for updating every UPDATE_EVERY steps)
        self.t_step = 0
    
    def step(self, state, action, reward, next_state, done):
        # Save experience in replay memory
        self.memory.add(state, action, reward, \
                        next_state, done)
        
        # Learn every UPDATE_EVERY time steps.
        self.t_step = (self.t_step + 1) % UPDATE_EVERY
        if self.t_step == 0:
  # If enough samples are available in memory, 
  # get random subset and learn
            if len(self.memory) > BATCH_SIZE:
                experiences = self.memory.sample()
                self.learn(experiences, GAMMA)
3. Since there are more sensors to handle, we'll transport them as a dictionary of
state. The state contains the 'image', 'lidar', and 'sensor' keys, which we
introduced in the previous section. We perform preprocessing before sending
them to the neural network, as shown in the following code:
    def act(self, state, eps=0.):
        images,lidars sensors=state['image'], \
                              state['lidar'],state['sensor']
        images = torch.from_numpy(images).float()\
                      .unsqueeze(0).to(device)
        lidars = torch.from_numpy(lidars).float()\

--- Strana 795 ---
                      .unsqueeze(0).to(device)
        sensors = torch.from_numpy(sensors).float()\
                       .unsqueeze(0).to(device)
        self.qnetwork_local.eval()
        with torch.no_grad():
            action_values = self.qnetwork_local(images, \
                                lidar=lidars, sensor=sensors)
        self.qnetwork_local.train()
        # Epsilon-greedy action selection
        if random.random() > eps:
            return np.argmax(action_values.cpu().data.numpy())
        else:
            return random.choice(np.arange(\
                        self.qnetwork_local.n_outputs))
4. Now, we need to fetch items from replay memory. The following instructions
are being executed in the following code:
1. Obtain a batch of current and next states.
2. Compute the expected reward, Q_expected, if a network performs actions
in the current state.
3. Compare it with the target reward, Q_targets, that would have been
obtained when the next state was fed to the network.
5. Periodically update the target network with the local network:
    def learn(self, experiences, gamma):
        states,actions,rewards,next_states,dones= experiences
        images, lidars, sensors = states
        next_images, next_lidars, next_sensors = next_states
        # Get max predicted Q values (for next states) 
        # from target model
        Q_targets_next = self.qnetwork_target(next_images, \
                       lidar=next_lidars,sensor=next_sensors)\
                            .detach().max(1)[0].unsqueeze(1)
        # Compute Q targets for current states 
        Q_targets = rewards +(gamma*Q_targets_next*(1-dones))
        # Get expected Q values from local model
        # import pdb; pdb.set_trace()
        Q_expected=self.qnetwork_local(images,lidar=lidars, \
                   sensor=sensors).gather(1,actions.long())
        # Compute loss
        loss = F.mse_loss(Q_expected, Q_targets)
        # Minimize the loss
        self.optimizer.zero_grad()
        loss.backward()
        self.optimizer.step()
        # ------------ update target network ------------- #
        self.soft_update(self.qnetwork_local, \
                         self.qnetwork_target, TAU) 
    def soft_update(self, local_model, target_model, tau):
        for target_param, local_param in \
            zip(target_model.parameters(), \
            local_model.parameters()):
            target_param.data.copy_(tau*local_param.data + \
                                (1.0-tau)*target_param.data)

--- Strana 796 ---
6. The only major change in the ReplayBuffer class is going to be how the data is
stored. Since we have multiple sensors, each memory (states and next_states)
is stored as a tuple of data; that is, states = [images, lidars, sensors]:
class ReplayBuffer:
    """Fixed-size buffer to store experience tuples."""
    def __init__(self, action_size, buffer_size, \
                 batch_size, seed):
        self.action_size = action_size
        self.memory = deque(maxlen=buffer_size) 
        self.batch_size = batch_size
        self.experience = namedtuple("Experience", \
                          field_names=["state", "action", \
                                     "reward","next_state", \
                                       "done"])
        self.seed = random.seed(seed)
    
    def add(self, state, action, reward, next_state, done):
        """Add a new experience to memory."""
        e = self.experience(state, action, reward, \
                            next_state, done)
        self.memory.append(e)
        
    
    def sample(self):
        experiences = random.sample(self.memory, \
                                    k=self.batch_size) 
        images = torch.from_numpy(np.vstack(\
                    [e.state['image'][None] \
                 for e in experiences if e is not None]))\
                    .float().to(device)
        lidars = torch.from_numpy(np.vstack(\
                    [e.state['lidar'][None] \
                 for e in experiences if e is not None]))\
                    .float().to(device)
        sensors = torch.from_numpy(np.vstack(\
                    [e.state['sensor'] \
                 for e in experiences if e is not None]))\
                    .float().to(device)
        states = [images, lidars, sensors]
        actions = torch.from_numpy(np.vstack(\
                    [e.action for e in experiences \
                     if e is not None])).long().to(device)
        rewards = torch.from_numpy(np.vstack(\
                    [e.reward for e in experiences \
                     if e is not None])).float().to(device)
        next_images = torch.from_numpy(np.vstack(\
                    [e.next_state['image'][None] \
                     for e in experiences if e is not None]))\
                    .float().to(device)
        next_lidars = torch.from_numpy(np.vstack(\
                    [e.next_state['lidar'][None] \
                     for e in experiences if e is not None]))\
                    .float().to(device)
        next_sensors = torch.from_numpy(np.vstack(\
                    [e.next_state['sensor'] \
                     for e in experiences if e is not None]))\
                    .float().to(device)
        next_states = [next_images, next_lidars, next_sensors]
        dones = torch.from_numpy(np.vstack([e.done \
                     for e in experiences if e is not None])\
                    .astype(np.uint8)).float().to(device)       
        return (states, actions, rewards, next_states, dones)

--- Strana 797 ---
    def __len__(self):
        """Return the current size of internal memory."""
        return len(self.memory)
Note that the lines of code in bold fetch the current states, actions, rewards, and
next states' information.
Now that the critical components are in place, let's load the Gym environment into
a Python notebook and start training.
Training DQN with fixed targets
There is no additional theory we need to learn here. The basics remain the same;
we'll only be making changes to the Gym environment, the architecture of the
neural network, and the actions our agent needs to take:
1. First, load the hyperparameters associated with the environment. Refer to
each comment beside every key-value pair presented in the params dictionary
in the following code. Since we are simulating a complex environment, we
need to choose the environment's parameters, such as the number of cars in
the city, number of walkers, which town to simulate, the resolution of the
dashcam image, and LIDAR sensors:
import gym
import gym_carla
import carla
from model import DQNetworkState
from actor import Actor
from torch_snippets import *
params = {
    'number_of_vehicles': 10,
    'number_of_walkers': 0,
    'display_size': 256, # screen size of bird-eye render
    'max_past_step': 1, # the number of past steps to draw
    'dt': 0.1, # time interval between two frames
    'discrete': True, # whether to use discrete control space
    # discrete value of accelerations
    'discrete_acc': [-1, 0, 1],
    # discrete value of steering angles
    'discrete_steer': [-0.3, 0.0, 0.3], 
    # define the vehicle
    'ego_vehicle_filter': 'vehicle.lincoln*', 
    'port': 2000, # connection port
    'town': 'Town03', # which town to simulate
    'task_mode': 'random', # mode of the task
    'max_time_episode': 1000, # maximum timesteps per episode
    'max_waypt': 12, # maximum number of waypoints
    'obs_range': 32, # observation range (meter)
    'lidar_bin': 0.125, # bin size of lidar sensor (meter)
    'd_behind': 12, # distance behind the ego vehicle (meter)
    'out_lane_thres': 2.0, # threshold for out of lane
    'desired_speed': 8, # desired speed (m/s)

--- Strana 798 ---
    'max_ego_spawn_times': 200, # max times to spawn vehicle
    'display_route': True, # whether to render desired route
    'pixor_size': 64, # size of the pixor labels
    'pixor': False, # whether to output PIXOR observation
}
# Set gym-carla environment
env = gym.make('carla-v0', params=params)
In the preceding params dictionary, the following are important for our
simulation in terms of the action space:
'discrete': True: Our actions lie in a discrete space.
'discrete_acc':[-1,0,1]: All the possible accelerations the self-driven car
is allowed to make during the simulation.
'discrete_steer':[-0.3,0,0.3]: All the possible steering magnitudes, the
self-driven car is allowed to make during the simulation.
As you can see, the discrete_acc and discrete_steer lists contain three items each. This means that
there are 3 x 3 possible unique actions the car can take. This means that the network in the
model.py file has nine discrete states.
Feel free to change the parameters once you've gone through the official
documentation.
2. With that, we have all the components we need to train the model. Load a
pre-trained model, if one exists:
load_path = None # 'car-v1.pth' 
# continue training from an existing model
save_path = 'car-v2.pth'
actor = Actor()
if load_path is not None:
    actor.qnetwork_local.load_state_dict(\
                            torch.load(load_path))
    actor.qnetwork_target.load_state_dict(\
                            torch.load(load_path))
else:
    pass
3. Fix the number of episodes and define the dqn function to train the agent, as
follows:
Reset the state:
n_episodes = 100000
def dqn(n_episodes=n_episodes, max_t=1000, eps_start=1, \
        eps_end=0.01, eps_decay=0.995):
    scores = [] # list containing scores from each episode
    scores_window = deque(maxlen=100) # last 100 scores
    eps = eps_start # Initialize epsilon 

--- Strana 799 ---
    for i_episode in range(1, n_episodes+1):
        state = env.reset()
Wrap the state into a dictionary (as discussed in the actor.py:Actor class)
and act on it:
        image, lidar, sensor = state['camera'], \
                               state['lidar'], \
                               state['state']
        image, lidar = preprocess(image), preprocess(lidar)
        state_dict = {'image': image, 'lidar': lidar, \
                      'sensor': sensor}
        score = 0
        for t in range(max_t):
            action = actor.act(state_dict, eps)
Store the next state that's obtained from the environment and then store
the state, next_state pair (along with the rewards and other state
information) to train the actor using DQN:
            next_state, reward, done, _ = env.step(action)
            image, lidar, sensor = next_state['camera'], \
                                   next_state['lidar'], \
                                   next_state['state']
            image,lidar = preprocess(image), preprocess(lidar)
            next_state_dict = {'image':image,'lidar':lidar, \
                               'sensor': sensor}
            actor.step(state_dict, action, reward, \
                       next_state_dict, done)
            state_dict = next_state_dict
            score += reward
            if done:
                break
        scores_window.append(score) # save most recent score
        scores.append(score) # save most recent score
        eps = max(eps_end, eps_decay*eps) # decrease epsilon
        if i_episode % 100 == 0:
            log.record(i_episode, \
                       mean_score=np.mean(scores_window))
            torch.save(actor.qnetwork_local.state_dict(), \
                       save_path)
We must repeat the loop until we get a done signal, after which we reset
the environment and start storing actions once again. After every 100
episodes, store the model.
4. Call the dqn function to train the model:
dqn()
Since this is a more complex environment, training can take a few days, so be
patient and continue training a few hours at a time using the load_path and save_path
arguments. With enough training, the vehicle can maneuver and learn how to drive

--- Strana 800 ---
by itself. Here's a video of the training result we were able to achieve after two
days of training: https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-self-driving-agent-result.
Summary
In this chapter, we learned how the values of various actions in a given state are
calculated. We then learned how the agent updates the Q-table using the
discounted value of taking an action in a given state. In the process of doing this,
we learned how the Q-table is infeasible in a scenario where the number of states
is high. We also learned how to leverage deep Q-networks to address the scenario
where the number of possible states is high. Next, we moved on to leveraging
CNN-based neural networks while building an agent that learned how to play
Pong using DQN based on fixed targets. Finally, we learned how to leverage DQN
with fixed targets to perform self-driving using the CARLA simulator. As we have
seen repeatedly in this chapter, you can use deep Q-learning to learn very different
tasks – such as CartPole balancing, playing Pong, and self-driving navigation –
 with almost the same code. While this is not the end of our journey into exploring
RL, at this point, we should be able to appreciate how we can use CNN-based and
reinforcement learning-based algorithms together to solve complex problems and
build learning agents.
So far, we have learned how to combine computer vision-based techniques with
techniques from other prominent areas of research, including meta-learning,
natural language processing, and reinforcement learning. Apart from this, we've
also learned how to perform object classification, detection, segmentation, and
image generation using GANs. In the next chapter, we will switch gears and learn
how to move a deep learning model to production.
Questions
1. How is a value calculated for a given state?
2. How is a Q-table populated?
3. Why do we have a discount factor in the state-action value calculation?
4. What do we need the exploration-exploitation strategy?
5. Why do we need to use deep Q-learning?
6. How is the value of a given state-action combination calculated using deep
Q-learning?

--- Strana 801 ---
7. Once the agent has maximized the reward in the CartPole environment, is
there a chance that it can learn a sub-optimal policy later?

--- Strana 802 ---
Moving a Model to Production
Moving a model to production is a step toward enabling the consumption of our
model by an external party. We should expose our model to the world and start
rendering predictions on real, unseen input.
It is not sufficient to have a trained PyTorch model for deployment. We need
additional server components for creating communication channels from the real
world to the PyTorch model and back to the real world. It is important that we
know how to create an API (through which the user can interact with the model),
wrap it as a self-contained application (so that it can be deployed on any
computer), and ship it to the cloud – so that anybody with the required URL and
credentials can interact with the model. To successfully move a model to
production, all these steps are necessary. In this chapter, we will deploy a simple
application that is accessible from anywhere on the internet. We will also learn
about deploying the Fashion MNIST (FMNIST) model and letting any user
upload the picture they want to classify and fetch results.
The following topics will be covered in this chapter:
Understanding the basics of an API
Creating an API and making predictions on a local server
Moving the API to the cloud
Understanding the basics of an API
By now, we know how to create a deep learning model for various tasks. It
accepts/returns tensors as input/output. But an outsider such as a client/end user
would talk only in terms of images and classes. Furthermore, they would expect to
send and receive input/output over channels that might have nothing to do with
Python. The internet is the easiest channel to communicate on. Hence, for a client,
the best-case deployment scenario would be if we can set up a publically available
URL and ask them to upload their images there. One such paradigm is called an
Application Programming Interface (API), which has standard protocols that
accept input and post output over the internet while abstracting the user away from
how the input is processed or the output is generated.

--- Strana 803 ---
Some common protocols in APIs are POST, GET, PUT, and DELETE, which are
sent as requests by the client to the host server along with relevant data. Based on
the request and data, the server performs the relevant task and returns appropriate
data in the form of a response – which the client can use in their downstream
tasks. In our case, the client will send a POST request with an image of clothing as
a file attachment. We should save the file, process it, and return the appropriate
FMNIST class as a response to the request, and our job is done.
Requests are organized data packets sent over the internet to communicate with
API servers. Typically, the components in a request are as follows:
An endpoint URL: This would be the address of the API service. For
example, https://www.packtpub.com/ would be an endpoint to connect to the Packt
Publishing service and browse through the catalog of their latest books.
A collection of headers: This information helps the API server return output;
if the header contained information that the client is on mobile, then the API
can return an HTML page with a layout that is mobile-friendly.
A collection of queries so that only related items from the server database
are fetched. For example, a search string of PyTorch will return only PyTorch-
related books, in the previous example. (In this chapter, we will not work on
queries as a prediction on images does not require querying – it requires the
filename.)
A list of files that could be uploaded to the server, or in our case, be used to
make deep learning predictions.
cURL is a computer software project providing a library and command-line tool for
transferring data using various network protocols. It is one of the most
lightweight, commonly used, and simple applications to call API requests and get
back responses.
We will use a readily available Python module called Fast-API that will enable us to
do the following:
1. Set up a communication URL.
2. Accept input from a wide variety of environments/formats when it is sent to
the URL.
3. Convert every form of input into the exact format that the machine learning
model needs as input.
4. Make predictions with the trained deep learning-based model.

--- Strana 804 ---
5. Convert predictions into the right format and respond to the client's request
with the prediction.
We will use the FMNIST classifier as an example to demonstrate these concepts.
After understanding the basic setup and code, you can create APIs for any kind of
deep learning task and serve predictions through a URL on your local machine.
While this is a logical end to creating an application, it is equally important that
we deploy it somewhere that is accessible by anyone who does not have access to
our computer or the model.
In the next two sections, we will cover how to wrap the application in a self-
contained Docker image that can be shipped and deployed anywhere on the cloud.
Once a Docker image is prepared, a container can be created from it and be
deployed on any major cloud service provider, as all of them accept Docker as
standard input. We will specifically walk through the example of deploying the
FMNIST classifier on an Amazon Web Services (AWS) Elastic Compute
Cloud (EC2) instance in the last section of this chapter. Let's use FastAPI, a
Python library, in the next section to create the API and verify that we can make
predictions directly from the terminal (without Jupyter notebooks).
Creating an API and making
predictions on a local server
In this section, we will learn about making predictions on a local server (that has
nothing to do with the cloud). At a high level, this involves the following steps:
1. Installing FastAPI 
2. Creating a route to accept incoming requests
3. Saving an incoming request on disk
4. Loading the requested image, then preprocessing and predicting with the
trained model
5. Postprocessing the results and sending back the predictions as a response to
the same incoming request 
All of the steps in this section are summarized as a video walk-through here: https://tinyurl.com/MCVP
-Model2FastAPI.

--- Strana 805 ---
Let's begin by installing FastAPI in the following subsection.
Installing the API module and dependencies
Since FastAPI is a Python module, we can use pip for installation, and be ready to
code an API. We will now open a new terminal and run the following command:
$pip install fastapi uvicorn aiofiles jinja2 
We have installed a couple more dependencies that are needed with FastAPI.
uvicorn is a minimal low-level server/application interface for setting up APIs.
aiofiles enables the server to work asynchronously with requests, such as
accepting and responding to multiple independent parallel requests at the same
time. These two modules are dependencies for FastAPI and we will not directly
interact with them.
Let's create the required files and code them in the next section.
Serving an image classifier
The first step is to set up a folder structure as shown here:
The setup is quite minimal, as shown here:
The files folder is going to act as the download location for incoming
requests.
fmnist.weights.pth contains the weights of our trained FMNIST model.
fmnist.py will contain logic to load the weights, accept incoming images,
preprocess, predict, and postprocess the predictions.
server.py will contain FastAPI functionalities that can set up a URL, accept
client requests from the URL, send/receive input/output from fmnist.py, and
send the output as responses to the client requests.
Note the following:
The files folder is empty and is only used to store uploaded files.
We are assuming we have the weights of the trained model as fmnist.weights.pth.

--- Strana 806 ---
Let's understand what fmnist.py and server.py constitute and code them now. 
fmnist.py
As discussed, the fmnist.py file should have the logic to load the model and return
predictions of a given image.
We are already familiar with how to create a PyTorch model. The only additional
component to the class is the predict method, which is there for doing any
necessary preprocessing on the image and postprocessing on the results. 
In the following code, we are first creating the model class that constitutes the
architecture of the model, which is initialized with the optimal weights through
torch.load:
from torch_snippets import *
device = 'cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu'
class FMNIST(nn.Module):
    classes = ['T-shirt/top', 'Trouser', 'Pullover', 'Dress', 
    'Coat', 'Sandal', 'Shirt', 'Sneaker', 'Bag', 'Ankle boot']
    def __init__(self, fpath='fmnist.weights.pth'):
        super().__init__()
        self.model = nn.Sequential(
            nn.Linear(28 * 28, 1000),
            nn.ReLU(),
            nn.Linear(1000, 10)
        ).to(device)
        self.model.load_state_dict(torch.load(fpath))
        logger.info('Loaded FMNIST Model')
The following code block highlights the forward method:
@torch.no_grad() 
def forward(self, x):
    x = x.view(1, -1).to(device)
    pred = self.model(x)
    pred = F.softmax(pred, -1)[0]
    conf, clss = pred.max(-1)
    clss = self.classes[clss.cpu().item()]
    return conf.item(), clss
The following code block highlights the predict method to do the necessary
preprocessing and postprocessing:
def predict(self, path):
    image = cv2.imread(path,0)
    x = np.array(image)
    x = cv2.resize(x, (28,28))
    x = torch.Tensor(255 - x)/255.
    conf, clss = self.forward(x)
    return {'class': clss, 'confidence': f'{conf:.4f}'}

--- Strana 807 ---
In the __init__ method, we are initializing the model and loading the pre-trained
weights. In the forward method, we are passing an image through the model and
fetching predictions. In the predict method, we are loading an image from a pre-
defined path, preprocessing the image before passing it through the forward method
of the model, and wrapping the output in a dictionary while returning the predicted
class and its confidence.
server.py
This is the portion of code in the API that connects the user's request with the
PyTorch model. Let's create the file step by step:
1. Load the libraries:
import os, io
from fmnist import FMNIST
from PIL import Image
from fastapi import FastAPI, Request, File, UploadFile
FastAPI is the base server class that will be used to create an API.
Request, File, and UploadFile are proxy placeholders for a client request and
the files they will upload. For more details, you are encouraged to go
through the official FastAPI documentation.
2. Load the model:
# Load the model from fmnist.py
model = FMNIST()
3. Create an app model that can supply us with a URL for uploading and
displaying:
app = FastAPI()
4. Create a URL at "/predict" so that the client can send POST requests to "
<hosturl>/predict" (we will learn about <hosturl>, which is the server, in the next
section) and receive responses:
@app.post("/predict")
def predict(request: Request, file:UploadFile=File(...)):
    content = file.file.read()
    image = Image.open(io.BytesIO(content)).convert('L')
    output = model.predict(image)
    return output

--- Strana 808 ---
That's it! We have all the components to leverage our image classifier to make
predictions over our local server. Let's set up the server and make some
predictions over the local server.
Running the server
Now that we have set all the components up, we are ready to run the server. Open
a new terminal and cd the folder that contains fmnist.py, server.py:
1. Run the server:
$ uvicorn server:app
You will see a message like so:
The Uvicorn running on ... message indicates that the server is up and running.
2. To fetch predictions, we will run the following in the terminal to fetch
predictions for a sample image present in /home/me/Pictures/shirt.png:
$ curl -X POST "http://127.0.0.1:8000/predict" -H "accept: application/json" -H 
"Content-Type: multipart/form-data" -F 
"file=@/home/me/Pictures/shirt.png;type=image/png"
The major components of the preceding line of code are as follows:
API protocol: The protocol we are calling is POST, which indicates that we
want to send our own data to the server. 
URL – server address: The server host URL is http://127.0.0.1:8000/ (which
is the local server and 8000 is the default port) and /predict/ is the route given
to the client to create POST requests; future clients must upload their data to the
URL – http://127.0.0.1:8000/predict.
Headers: The request has components in the form of -H flags.
These explain additional information, such as the following:
What the input content type is going to be – multipart/form-data – which is
API jargon for saying the input data is in the form of a file. 
What the expected output type is – application/json – which means the
JSON format. There are other formats, such as XML, text, and octet-

--- Strana 809 ---
stream, which are applicable based on the complexity of the output
being generated.
Files: The final -F flag is pointing to the location where the file that we want
to upload exists, and what its type is.
The output dictionary, once we run the preceding code, will be printed in the
terminal: 
We can now fetch model predictions from our local server. In the next section, we
will look at fetching model predictions from the cloud so that any user can get
model predictions.
Moving the API to the cloud
So far, we have learned about making predictions on a local server (http://127.0.0.1
is a URL of the local server that cannot be accessed on the web) – so, only the
owner of the local machine can use the model. In this section, we will learn about
moving this model to the cloud so that anyone can predict using an image.
In general, companies deploy services in redundant machines to ensure reliability
and there is little control over the hardware provided by the cloud provider. It is
not convenient to keep track of all folders and their code, or copy-paste all the
code, then install all the dependencies, ensuring the code works as expected on the
new environment, and forward ports on all the cloud machines. There are too
many steps to be followed for the same code on every new machine. Repeating
these steps is a waste of time for the developer and such a process is highly prone
to mistakes. 
We would rather install one package that has everything than install multiple
individual packages (such as the individual modules and code required to run the
application) and connect them later. Thus, it becomes important that we are able to
wrap the entire code base and modules into a single package (something like a .exe
file in Windows) so that the package can be deployed with as little as one
command and still ensure it works exactly the same on all hardware. To this end,

--- Strana 810 ---
we need to learn how to work with Docker – which is essentially a condensed
operating system with code. The created Docker containers are lightweight and
will perform only the tasks that we want them to perform. In our example, the
Docker image we will create will run the API for the task of predicting the class of
FMNIST images. But first, let's understand some Docker jargon.
Comparing Docker containers and Docker images
A Docker image is a standard unit of software that packages up code and all its
dependencies. This way, the application runs quickly and reliably from one
computing environment to another. A Docker image is a lightweight, standalone,
executable package of software that includes everything needed to run an
application: code, runtime, system tools, system libraries, and settings.
A Docker container is a snapshot of the image that will be instantiated wherever
it needs to be deployed. We can create any number of Docker image copies from a
single image and they are all expected to perform the same task. Think of an
image as the parent copy and a container as the child copy.
At a high level, we will perform the following tasks:
1. Create a Docker image. Create a Docker container out of it and test it.
2. Push the Docker image to the cloud.
3. Build the Docker container on the cloud.
4. Deploy the Docker container on the cloud. 
Creating a Docker container
In the previous section, we built an API that takes an image and returns the class
of the image and the probability associated with that class of image on a local
server. Now, it's time to wrap our API in a package that can be shipped and
deployed anywhere. 
Ensure Docker is installed on your machine. You can refer to https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/ for
instructions on the installation.
There are four steps to this process of creating a Docker container:
1. Create a requirements.txt file.
2. Create a Dockerfile.

--- Strana 811 ---
3. Build a Docker image.
4. Create a Docker container from the image and test it.
The code in the following sections is also summarized as a video walkthrough here: https://tinyur
l.com/MCVP-Model2FastAPI. The relevant part of this section starts at the 2-minute mark in the video.
We will go through and understand these four steps now, and in the next section,
we will learn how to ship the image to AWS servers.
Creating the requirements.txt file
We need to tell the Docker image which Python modules to install to run the
application. The requirements.txt file contains a list of all these Python modules:
1. Open a terminal and go to the folder that contains fmnist.py, server.py. Next,
we will create a blank virtual environment and activate it in our local terminal
in the root folder:
$ python3 -m venv fastapi-venv
$ source fastapi-env/bin/activate
The reason why we create a blank virtual environment is to ensure
that only the required modules are installed in the environment so that
when shipping, we don't waste valuable space.
2. Install the required packages (fastapi, uvicorn, aiofiles, torch, and torch_snippets)
to run the FMNIST app:
$ pip install fastapi uvicorn aiofiles torch torch_snippets
3. In the same terminal, run the following command  to install all the required
Python modules:
$ pip freeze > requirements.txt
The preceding code fetches all the Python modules and their corresponding
version numbers into the requirements.txt file, which will be used for
installing dependencies in the Docker image:

--- Strana 812 ---
We can open the text file, which would look similar to the previous screenshot.
Now that we have all the pre-requisites, let's create the Dockerfile in the next
section.
Creating a Dockerfile
As introduced in the preceding section, the Docker image is a self-contained
application, complete with its own operating system and dependencies. Given a
computation platform (such as an EC2 instance), the image can act independently

--- Strana 813 ---
and perform the tasks that it is designed to perform. For this, we need to provide a
Docker application with the necessary instructions – dependencies, code, and
commands – to launch applications. Let's create these instructions in a text file
called Dockerfile in the root directory that contains server.py, fmnist.py – which we
already placed after creating the project folder – of our FMINST project. The file
needs to be named Dockerfile (no extension) as a convention. The content of the
text file is as follows:
FROM tiangolo/uvicorn-gunicorn-fastapi:python3.7
COPY ./requirements.txt /app/requirements.txt
RUN pip install --no-cache-dir -r requirements.txt
WORKDIR /app
COPY . /app
EXPOSE 5000
CMD ["uvicorn", "server:app", "--host", "0.0.0.0"]
Let's understand the preceding code step by step:
1. FROM is instructing which operating system base to use. The tiangolo/uvicorn-
gunicorn-fastapi:python3.7 location is an address that is parsed by Docker from
the internet and it fetches a base image that has already installed Python and
other FastAPI modules.
2. Next, we are copying the requirements.txt file that we created. This provides
the packages that we want to install. In the next line, we are asking the image
to pip install the packages.
3. WORKDIR is the folder where our application will be running. Hence, we are
creating a new folder named /app in the Docker image and copying the
contents of the root folder into the /app folder of the image.
4. Finally, we run the server as we did in the previous section.
This way, we have set up a blueprint to create a completely new operating system
and filesystem (think of it as a new Windows installable CD) from scratch, which
is going to contain only the code that we specify and run only one application,
which is FastAPI.
Building a Docker image and creating a Docker container
Note that so far, we have only created a blueprint for the Docker image. Let's build
the image and create a container out of it.
Run the following commands from the same terminal (where we are in the root
directory containing the application files):

--- Strana 814 ---
1. Build the Docker image and tag it as fmnist:latest:
$ docker build -t fmnist:latest .
After a long list of outputs, we get the following, telling us that the image
is built:
We have successfully created a Docker image with the name fmnist:latest
(where fmnist is the image name and latest is a tag that we gave, indicating
its version number). Docker maintains a registry in the system from which
all these images are accessible. This Docker registry now contains a
standalone image with all the code and logic to run the FMNIST API.
We can always check in the Docker registry by typing out $ docker image ls
in Command Prompt:
2. Run the built image with -p 5000:5000 forwarding port 5000 from inside
the image to port 5000 on our local machine. The last argument is the name of
the container being created from the image:
$ docker run -p 5000:5000 fmnist:latest
Port forwarding is important. Often, we don't have a say on which ports the cloud is exposing.
Hence, as a matter of demonstration, even though our uvicorn model created a 5000 port for the
POST operation, we are still using Docker's functionality to route external requests from 5000 to
5000, which is where uvicorn is listening.
This should give a prompt with the last few lines as follows:

--- Strana 815 ---
3. Now, run a curl request from a new terminal and access the API as described
in the previous section, but this time, the application is being served from
Docker instead:
Even though we have not moved anything to the cloud so far, wrapping the API in
Docker enables us to not have to worry about pip install or copy-pasting code ever
again.  Next, we'll ship it to a cloud provider and make the app available to the
world.
You can now ship the image to any computer that also has Docker. No matter what
type of computer we ship it to, calling docker run will always create a container that
will work exactly the way we intend it to. We need not worry about pip install or
copy-pasting code anymore.
Shipping and running the Docker container in the
cloud
We will rely on AWS for our cloud requirements. We will use two of AWS's free
offerings for our purpose:
Elastic Container Registry (ECR): Here, we will store our Docker image.
EC2: Here, we will create a Linux system to run our API Docker image.
For this section, let's focus only on the ECR part of it. A high-level overview of
the steps we will follow to push the Docker image to the cloud is as follows:
1. Configure AWS on the local machine.

--- Strana 816 ---
2. Create a Docker repository on AWS ECR and push the fmnist:latest image.
3. Create an EC2 instance.
4. Install dependencies on the EC2 instance.
5. Create and run the Docker image on the EC2 instance.
The code in the following sections is also summarized as a video walkthrough here: https://tinyur
l.com/MCVP-FastAPI2AWS.
Let's implement the preceding steps, starting with configuring AWS in the next
section.
Configuring AWS
We are going to log in to AWS from Command Prompt and push our Docker
image. Let's do it step by step:
1. Create an AWS account at https://aws.amazon.com/ and log in.
2. Install the AWS CLI on your local machine (which contains the Docker
image).
The AWS CLI is a command-line interface application for all Amazon services. It should be
installed from the official website for your operating system first. Visit https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/
latest/userguide/install-cliv2.html for more details.
3. Verify that it is installed by running aws --version in your local terminal. 
4. Configure the AWS CLI. Get the following tokens
from https://aws.amazon.com/:
aws_account_id
Access key ID
Secret access key
Region
We can find all the preceding variables in the Identity and Access Management
(IAM) section in AWS. Run aws configure in the terminal and give the
appropriate credentials when asked:
$ aws configure
AWS Access Key ID [None]: AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
AWS Secret Access Key [None]:wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
Default region name [None]: region
Default output format [None]:json
We have now logged in to Amazon's services from our computer. We can, in
principle, access any of their services directly from the terminal. In the next

--- Strana 817 ---
section, let's connect to ECR and push the Docker image.
Creating a Docker repository on AWS ECR and pushing the image
Now, we will create the Docker repository, as follows:
1. After configuring, log in to AWS ECR using the following command (the
following code is all one line), providing the preceding region and account ID
details at the places that are given in bold in the following code:
$ aws ecr get-login-password --region region | docker login --username AWS --
password-stdin aws_account_id.dkr.ecr.region.amazonaws.com
The preceding line of code creates and connects you to your own Docker
registry in the Amazon cloud. Much like the Docker registry in the local
system, this is where the images are going to reside, but instead, it will be
in the cloud.
2. Create a repository from the CLI by running the following:
$ aws ecr create-repository --repository-name fmnist_app
With the preceding code, a location is now created in the cloud that can
hold your Docker images. 
3. Tag your local image by running the following command so that when you
push the image, it will be pushed to the tagged repository. Remember to give
your own aws_accound_id and region values in the bolded part of the following
code:
$ docker tag fmnist:latest aws_account_id.dkr.ecr.region.amazonaws.com/fmnist_app
4. Run the following command to push the local Docker image to the AWS
repository in the cloud:
$ docker push aws_account_id.dkr.ecr.region.amazonaws.com/fmnist_app
We have successfully created a location in the cloud for our API and pushed the
Docker image to this location. As you are now aware, this image already has all
the components to run the API. The only remaining aspect is to create a Docker
container out of it in the cloud, and we will have successfully moved our
application to production!

--- Strana 818 ---
Creating an EC2 instance
Pushing the Docker image to AWS ECR is like pushing code to a GitHub
repository. It just resides in one place and we still need to build the application out
of it.
For this, you have to create an Amazon EC2 instance that can serve your web
application:
1. Go to the search bar of the AWS Management Console and search for EC2.
2. Select Launch Instance.
3. You will be given a list of the instances that are available. AWS offers many
instances in the free tier. We chose the Amazon Linux 2 AMI - t2.micro
instance with 20 GB of space here (you can use other instances as well but
remember to change the configuration accordingly).
4. While configuring the instance creation, in the Configure Security
Group section, add a rule with Custom TCP set, and set Port Range as 5000 (as
we have exposed port 5000 in the Docker image), as shown here:

--- Strana 819 ---
5. In the Launch Instances popup (see the following screenshot), which is the
last step, create a new key pair (this will download a .pem file, which is needed
for logging into the instance). This is as good as a password, so do not lose
this file:

--- Strana 820 ---
6. Move the .pem file to a secure location and change its permissions by
running chmod 400 fastapi.pem.
You should see an instance running in your EC2 dashboard at this point:
7. Copy the EC2 instance name that looks like this:
ec2-18-221-11-226.us-east-2.compute.amazonaws.com
8. Log in to the EC2 instance by using the following command in your local
terminal:
$ ssh -i fastapi.pem ec2-user@ec2-18-221-11-226.us-east-2.compute.amazonaws.com

--- Strana 821 ---
We have created an EC2 instance with the necessary space and operating system.
Furthermore, we were able to expose port 8000 from the machine and could also
take note of the public URL for this machine (this URL will be used by the client
for sending POST requests). Finally, we were able to log in to it by successfully
using the downloaded .pem file, treating the EC2 machine like any other machine
that can install software.
Pulling the image and building the Docker container
Let's install the dependencies for running the Docker image on the EC2 machine,
and then we'll be ready to run the API. The following commands are all needed to
be run in the EC2 console that we have logged in to in the previous section (step
8 of the previous section):
1. Install and configure the Docker image on a Linux machine:
$ sudo yum install -y docker
$ sudo groupadd docker
$ sudo gpasswd -a ${USER} docker
$ sudo service docker restart
groupadd and gpasswd ensure that Docker has all the permissions required to
run.
2. Configure AWS in an EC2 instance, as you did earlier, and reboot the
machine:
$ aws configure
AWS Access Key ID [None]: AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
AWS Secret Access Key [None]:wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
Default region name [None]: us-west-2
Default output format [None]:json
$ reboot 
3. Log in again to the instance from the local terminal using the following
command:
$ ssh -i fastapi.pem ec2-user@ec2-18-221-11-226.us-east-2.compute.amazonaws.com
4. Now, from the EC2 logged-in console (which has Docker installed), log in to
AWS ECR (change the region that is present in bold in the following code):
$ aws ecr get-login --region region --no-include-email
5. Copy the output from the preceding code, then paste and run it in the
command line. Once you are successfully logged in to AWS ECR, you will

--- Strana 822 ---
see Login Succeeded in the console.
6. Pull the Docker image from AWS ECR:
$ docker pull aws_account_id.dkr.ecr.region.amazonaws.com/fmnist_app:latest
7. Finally, run the pulled Docker image in the EC2 machine:
docker run -p 5000:5000 aws_account_id.dkr.ecr.region.amazonaws.com/fmnist_app
We have our API running on EC2. All we have to do is get the public IP address
for the machine and run the curl request with this address in place of 127.0.0.1. You
can find this address on the EC2 dashboard at the right of the page:
8. You can now call a POST request from any computer, and the EC2 instance will
respond to it, giving us predictions for what type of clothing image we have
uploaded:
$ curl -X POST "http://54.229.16.169:5000/predict" -H "accept: application/json" 
-H "Content-Type: multipart/form-data" -F 
"file=@/home/me/Pictures/shirt.png;type=image/png"
The preceding code results in the following output:
{"class":"Coat","confidence":"0.6488"}
In this section, we were able to install the dependencies for EC2, pull the Docker
image, and run the Docker container, to enable any user with the URL to make

--- Strana 823 ---
predictions on a new image.
Summary
In this chapter, we learned what additional steps are required in moving a model to
production. We learned what an API is and what its components are. After
creating an API, with the use of FastAPI, we glanced at the core steps of creating a
Docker image of the API. Using AWS, we created our own Docker registry in the
cloud and went through the steps to push our Docker image there. We saw what it
takes to create an EC2 instance and install the required libraries to pull the Docker
image from ECR, build a Docker container from it, and deploy it for any user to
make predictions. 
In the next and final chapter, we will learn about OpenCV, which has utilities that
help in addressing some of the image-related problems in a constrained
environment. We will go through five different use cases to gain an understanding
of leveraging OpenCV for image analysis. Learning the functionalities of OpenCV
will further strengthen our computer vision repertoire.

--- Strana 824 ---
Using OpenCV Utilities for Image
Analysis
So far, in previous chapters, we have learned about leveraging various
techniques to perform object classification, localization, and segmentation,
as well as generating images. While all these techniques leverage deep
learning to solve tasks, for relatively simple and well-defined tasks, we can
leverage specific functionalities provided in the OpenCV package. For
example, we don't need YOLO if the object that needs to be detected is
always the same object with the same background. In cases where images
come from a constrained environment, there is a high chance that one of the
OpenCV utilities can help solve the problem to a large extent.
We are going to cover only a few use cases in this chapter as there are just so
many utilities to cover that it would warrant a separate book focusing on
OpenCV. In doing word detection, you will learn about image dilation,
erosion, and extracting contours around connected components. After that,
you will learn about Canny edge detection to identify edges of objects within
an image. Furthermore, you will understand the advantage of having a green
screen in the background of videos/images while performing a bitwise
operation on images to identify the color space of interest. Then, you will
understand a technique that helps in creating a panoramic view of two
images by stitching them together. Finally, you will learn about leveraging
pre-trained cascade filters to identify objects such as number plates.
In this chapter, we will learn about the following topics:
Drawing bounding boxes around words in an image
Detecting lanes in an image of a road
Detecting objects based on color
Building a panoramic view of images
Detecting the number plate of a car

--- Strana 825 ---
Drawing bounding boxes around
words in an image
Imagine a scenario where you are building a model that performs word
transcription from the image of a document. The first step would be to
identify the location of words within the image. Primarily, there are two
ways of identifying words within an image:
Using deep learning techniques such as CRAFT, EAST, and more
Using OpenCV-based techniques
In this section, we will learn about how machine-printed words can be
identified in a clean image without leveraging deep learning. As the contrast
between the background and foreground is high, you do not need an overkill
solution such as YOLO to identify the location of individual words. Using
OpenCV is going to be especially handy in these scenarios because we can
arrive at a solution with very limited computational resources and,
consequently, even the inference time will be very small. The only drawback
is that the accuracy may not be 100%, but that is also subject to how clean
the scanned images are. If the scans are guaranteed to be very, very clear,
then you can expect a near 100% accuracy.
At a high level, let's understand how we can identify/isolate words within an
image:
1. Convert the image to grayscale, as the color does not affect identifying
words within an image.
2. Dilate the content in the image slightly. Dilation bleeds the black pixels
into the immediate neighborhood and hence connects the black pixels
between characters of the same word. This helps in ensuring that
characters that belong to the same word are connected. However, do not
dilate so much that characters that belong to different adjacent words
also get connected.
3. Once the characters are connected, leverage the cv2.findContours method
to draw a bounding box around each word.

--- Strana 826 ---
Let's code up the preceding strategy:
The following code is available as Drawing_bounding_boxes_around_words_in_an_image.ipynb in
the Chapter18 folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt Be sure to
copy the URL from the notebook in GitHub to avoid any issue while reproducing the
results
1. Let's start by downloading a sample image:
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/3jkwy16m6xdlktb/18_5.JPG
2. View the downloaded image using the following lines of code:
import cv2, numpy as np
img = cv2.imread('18_5.JPG')
img1 = cv2.cvtColor(img, cv2.COLOR_RGB2BGR)
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt,cv2
%matplotlib inline
plt.imshow(img1)
The preceding code will return the following output:

--- Strana 827 ---
3. Convert the input image into a grayscale image:
img_gray = cv2.cvtColor(img1, cv2.COLOR_BGR2GRAY)
4. Fetch a random crop of the original image:
crop = img_gray[250:300,50:100]
plt.imshow(crop,cmap='gray')
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 828 ---
From the preceding output, we can see that there are a few pixels that
contain noise. Next, we will remove the noise present in the original
image.
5. Binarize the input grayscale image:
_img_gray = np.uint8(img_gray < 200)*255
The preceding code results in the pixels that have a value of less than
200 having a value of 0, while the pixels that are bright (have a pixel
intensity greater than 200) have a value of 255.
6. Find contours of the various characters present in the image:
contours,hierarchy=cv2.findContours(_img_gray, \
                   cv2.RETR_EXTERNAL,cv2.CHAIN_APPROX_SIMPLE)
cv2 finds contours by creating a collection of a continuous set of
pixels as a single blob of the object. Refer to the following
screenshot for an idea of how cv2.findContours works:

--- Strana 829 ---

--- Strana 830 ---
7. Convert the threshold image obtained previously to have three channels
so that we can plot the colored bounding boxes around characters:
thresh1 = np.stack([_img_gray]*3,axis=2)
8. Create a blank image so that we can copy the relevant content from
thresh1 into the new image:
thresh2 = np.zeros((thresh1.shape[0],thresh1.shape[1]))
9. Fetch the contours obtained in the previous step and draw a bounding
box with a rectangle where the contour is mentioned. Also, copy the
content corresponding to the bounding rectangle from the thresh1 image
to thresh2:
for cnt in contours:
    if cv2.contourArea(cnt)>0:
        [x,y,w,h] = cv2.boundingRect(cnt)
        if ((h>5) & (h<100)):
            thresh2[y:(y+h),x:(x+w)] = thresh1[y:(y+h), \
                                       x:(x+w),0].copy()
            cv2.rectangle(thresh1,(x,y),(x+w,y+h),(255,0,0),2)
In the preceding lines of code, we are fetching only those contours
that have an area greater than 5 pixels and also fetching only those
where the height of the bounding box is between 5 and 100 pixels
(this way, we eliminate the boxes that are too small, which are likely
to be noise, and large bounding boxes that might encompass the
whole image).
10. Plot the resulting image:
fig = plt.figure()
fig.set_size_inches(20,20)
plt.imshow(thresh1)
The preceding code fetches the following output:

--- Strana 831 ---
So far, we can draw bounding boxes around characters, but if we
want to draw boxes around words, we need to combine pixels within
the word into a single contiguous unit. Next, we will look at drawing
bounding boxes around words, leveraging word dilation techniques.
11. Inspect the filled image, thresh2:
fig = plt.figure()
fig.set_size_inches(20,20)
plt.imshow(thresh2)
The resulting image would look as follows:

--- Strana 832 ---
Now, the problem to be solved is how to connect the pixels of
different characters into one so that a continuous collection of pixels
constitutes a word.
We use a technique called dilation (using cv2.dilate), which bleeds
white pixels into the surrounding pixels. The amount of bleeding is
dictated by the kernel size. If the kernel size is, say, 5, then all the
borders of the white regions move outward by 5 pixels. Refer to the
following screenshot for an intuitive explanation:

--- Strana 833 ---
12. Dilate with a kernel size of 1 row and 2 columns:
dilated = cv2.dilate(thresh2, np.ones((1,2),np.uint8), \
                    iterations=1)
Note that we are specifying a kernel size of 1 row and 2 columns
(np.ones((1,2),np.uint8)) so that adjacent characters are very likely to
have some intersection. This way, cv2.findContours can now encompass
the characters that are very close to each other.

--- Strana 834 ---
However, if the kernel size is bigger, the dilated words can have
some intersection, resulting in the combined words being captured in
one bounding box.
13. Fetch the contours of the dilated image:
contours,hierarchy = cv2.findContours(np.uint8(dilated), \
                    cv2.RETR_EXTERNAL,cv2.CHAIN_APPROX_SIMPLE)
14. Draw contours of the dilated image on the original image:
for cnt in contours:
    if cv2.contourArea(cnt)>5:
        [x,y,w,h] = cv2.boundingRect(cnt)
        if ((h>5) & (h<100)):
            cv2.rectangle(img1,(x,y),(x+w,y+h),(255,0,0),2)
15. Plot the original image with contours:
fig = plt.figure()
fig.set_size_inches(20,20)
plt.imshow(img1)
The preceding code results in the following output:

--- Strana 835 ---
From this, you can see that we fetched a bounding box corresponding to
each word.
The key aspect to learn is how we can identify that a collection of pixels
forms a single connected unit, and if the collection of pixels did not form a
unit, how to manipulate them using dilation. While dilation bleeds the black
pixels, there is a similar function called erode that bleeds white pixels. We
encourage you to perform erosion and understand how it works by yourself.
So far, we have learned about finding contours around characters (objects) in
an image. In the next section, we will learn about identifying lines within an
image.

--- Strana 836 ---
Detecting lanes in an image of a
road
Imagine a scenario where you have to detect the lanes within an image of a
road. One way to solve this is by leveraging semantic segmentation
techniques in deep learning. One of the traditional ways of solving this
problem using OpenCV has been using edge and line detectors. In this
section, we will learn about how edge detection followed by line detection
can help in identifying lanes within an image of a road.
Here, we will have outlined a high-level understanding of the strategy:
1. Find the edges of various objects present in the image.
2. Identify the edges that follow a straight line and are also connected.
3. Extend the identified lines from one end of the image to the other end.
Let's code up our strategy:
The following code is available as detecting_lanes_in_the_image_of_a_road.ipynb in the
Chapter18 folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt Be sure to
copy the URL from the notebook in GitHub to avoid any issue while reproducing the
results
1. Download a sample image:
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/0n5cs04sb2y98hx/road_image3.JPG
2. Import the packages and inspect the image:
!pip install torch_snippets
from torch_snippets import show, read, subplots, cv2, np
IMG = read('road_image3.JPG',1)
img = np.uint8(IMG.copy())
The imported image looks like so:

--- Strana 837 ---
There's too much information in the image, and we are only
interested in the straight lines. One quick way to get the edges in an
image is using a Canny edge detector, which identifies something as
an edge when there is a drastic change in the color. The color change
technically depends on the gradient of pixels within the image. The
more the difference of two pixels, the higher the likelihood that the
pixels represent the edge of an object.
3. Fetch the edges corresponding to content in the image using the
cv2.Canny edge detection technique:
blur_img = cv2.blur(img, (5,5))
edges = cv2.Canny(blur_img,150,255)
edges_org = cv2.Canny(img,150,255)
subplots([img,edges_org,blur_img,edges],nc=4, \
        titles=['Original image','Edges of original image', \
        'Blurred image','Edges of blurred image'],sz=15)
In the preceding code, we are first blurring the original image using
cv2.blur in such a way that we look at a patch of 5 x 5, fetch the
average of the pixel values in that patch, and replace the central
element with the average of the pixel values surrounding every pixel.

--- Strana 838 ---
When calculating edges using the cv2.Canny method, the values 150 and
255 represent the minimum and maximum possible gradient values
corresponding to the edges. Note that a pixel is an edge if one side of
the pixel has a certain pixel value and another side has a pixel value
that is considerably different from the pixel on the other side.
The image and edges for the original and blurred images look as
follows:
From the preceding, we can see that the edges are more logical when
we perform blurring on the original image. Now that the edges are
identified, we need to get only the straight ones from the image. This
is done using the HoughLines technique.
4. Identify the lines that have a length of at least 100 pixels using the
cv2.HoughLines method:
lines = cv2.HoughLines(edges,1,np.pi/180,100)
Note that the parameter value of 100 specifies that the length of the
identified line should be at least 100 pixels.
The obtained lines, in this case, have a shape of 9 x 1 x 2; that is,
there are nine lines in the image, each with its own distance from the
bottom-left corner of the image and a corresponding angle (typically
referred to as [rho, theta] in polar coordinates).
5. Plot the lines that are less horizontal:
lines = lines[:,0,:]
for rho,theta in lines:
    a = np.cos(theta)
    b = np.sin(theta)
    x0 = a*rho
    y0 = b*rho

--- Strana 839 ---
    x1 = int(x0 + 10000*(-b))
    y1 = int(y0 + 10000*(a))
    x2 = int(x0 - 10000*(-b))
    y2 = int(y0 - 10000*(a))
    if theta < 75*3.141/180 or theta > 105*3.141/180:
        cv2.line(blur_img,(x1,y1),(x2,y2),(255,0,0),1)
show(blur_img,sz=10, grid=True)
The preceding code generates the following output:
To summarize, we first filtered out all the possible noise from the image by
performing blurring and edge detection. Only a few pixels remained as likely
candidates for lanes. Next, using HoughLines, we further filtered out candidates
that are not straight lines of at least 100 pixels. While the lanes on the road
are detected reasonably well in this image, it is not guaranteed that the
preceding logic works on every image of a road. As an exercise, try out the

--- Strana 840 ---
preceding process on a few different road images. Here is where you will
appreciate the power of deep learning over lane detection using OpenCV,
where the model learns to predict accurately on a wide variety of images
(provided we train the model on a reasonably wide variety of images).
Detecting objects based on color
Green screen is a classic video editing technique where we can make
someone look like they are standing in front of a completely different
background. This is widely used in weather reports, where reporters point to
backgrounds of moving clouds and maps. The trick in this technique is that
the reporter never wears a certain color of clothing (say, green) and stands in
front of a background that is only green. Then, identifying green pixels will
identify what is the background and helps replace content at only those
pixels.
In this section, we will learn about leveraging the cv2.inRange and
cv2.bitwise_and methods to detect the green color in any given image.
The strategy that we will adopt is as follows:
1. Convert the image from RGB into HSV space.
2. Specify the upper and lower limits of HSV space that correspond to the
color green.
3. Identify the pixels that have a green color – this will be the mask.
4. Perform a bitwise_and operation between the original image and the mask
image.
The preceding strategy is implemented in code as follows:
The following code is available as Detecting_objects_based_on_color.ipynb in the Chapter18
folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt Be sure to copy the
URL from the notebook in GitHub to avoid any issue while reproducing the results
1. Fetch the image and install the required packages:
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/utrkdooh08y9mvm/uno_card.png
!pip install torch_snippets

--- Strana 841 ---
from torch_snippets import *
import cv2, numpy as np
2. Read the image and convert it into HSV (Hue-Saturation-Value)
space. Converting to HSV space from RGB will let us decouple the
brightness out of the color so that we can easily extract the color
information of every pixel:
img = read('uno_card.png', 1)
show(img)
hsv = cv2.cvtColor(img, cv2.COLOR_RGB2HSV)
Here is the image in RGB space:
3. Define the upper and lower thresholds of the green color in HSV space:
lower_green = np.array([45,100,100])
upper_green = np.array([80,255,255])
4. Generate the mask, which activates only the pixels that fall within the
defined upper and lower thresholds. cv2.inRange is a comparison
operation to check whether a pixel value is between the minimum and
maximum but on an HSV scale:
mask = cv2.inRange(hsv, lower_green, upper_green)

--- Strana 842 ---
5. Perform the cv2.bitwise_and operation between the original image and
mask to fetch the resulting image:
res = cv2.bitwise_and(img, img, mask=mask)
subplots([img, mask, res], nc=3, figsize=(10,5), \
        titles=['Original image','Mask on image', \
                'Resulting image'])
The original image, the mask, and the resulting image are as follows:
From the preceding plot, we can see that the algorithm has ignored the rest
of the content in the image and concentrated only on the color of interest.
Using this, we can extend the logic to come up with a foreground mask that
is exclusively not green using the cv2.bitwise_not operation and perform the
green screen technique.
In summary, we can identify color spaces in an image, and if we want to
project/overlay another image onto the identified green screen, we pick the
pixels from the other image that correspond to the green pixels in the
original one.
Next, we will learn about matching features from one image to another using
keypoint detection techniques.
Building a panoramic view of
images

--- Strana 843 ---
In this section, we will learn about one of the techniques that helps in
creating a panoramic view by combining multiple images.
Imagine a scenario where you are capturing the panorama of a place using
your camera. Essentially, you are taking multiple shots, and in the backend,
the algorithm is mapping the common elements present across the images
(moving from the leftmost to the rightmost side) into a single image.
To perform the stitching of images, we will leverage the ORB (Oriented
FAST and Rotated BRIEF) method available in cv2. Getting into the details
of how these algorithms work is beyond the scope of this book – we
encourage you to go through the documentation and the paper available at ht
tps://opencv-python-tutroals.readthedocs.io/en/latest/py_tutorials/py_feature2d/py_or
b/py_orb.html.
At a high level, the method identifies keypoints within a query image
(image1) and then associates them with the keypoints identified in another
training image (image2) if the keypoints match.
The strategy that we will adopt to perform image stitching is as follows:
1. Calculate the keypoints and extract them in both images.
2. Identify the common features in both images using the brute-force
method.
3. Leverage the cv2.findHomoGraphy method to transform the training image
to match the orientation of the query image.
4. Finally, we leverage the cv2.warpperspective method to fetch a view that
looks like a standard view.
Now, we will implement the preceding strategy using the following code:
The following code is available as Building_a_panoramic_view_of_images.ipynb in the Chapter18
folder of the book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt Be sure to copy the
URL from the notebook in GitHub to avoid any issue while reproducing the results
1. Fetch the images and import the relevant packages:
!pip install torch_snippets
from torch_snippets import *

--- Strana 844 ---
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/mfg1codtc2rue84/g1.png
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/4yhui8s1xjndavm/g2.png
2. Load the query and train images and convert them into grayscale
images:
queryImg = read('g1.png', 1)
queryImg_gray = read('g1.png')
trainImg = read('g2.png', 1)
trainImg_gray = read('g2.png')
subplots([trainImg, queryImg], nc=2, figsize=(10,5), \
        titles = ['Query image', \
    'Training image (Image to be stitched to Query image)'])
The query and train images look as follows:
3. Extract the keypoints and features in both images using the ORB
feature detector:
# Fetch the keypoints and features corresponding to the images
descriptor = cv2.ORB_create()
kpsA, featuresA = descriptor.detectAndCompute(trainImg_gray, \
                                                None)
kpsB, featuresB = descriptor.detectAndCompute(queryImg_gray, \
                                                None)
# Draw the keypoints obtained on images
img_kpsA = cv2.drawKeypoints(trainImg_gray,kpsA,None, \
                            color=(0,255,0))
img_kpsB = cv2.drawKeypoints(queryImg_gray,kpsB,None, \
                            color=(0,255,0))
subplots([img_kpsB, img_kpsA], nc=2, figsize=(10,5), \
            titles=['Query image with keypoints', \
                'Training image with keypoints'])
A plot of the extracted keypoints in both images is as follows:

--- Strana 845 ---
ORB or any other feature detector works in two steps:
1. 
First, it identifies interesting keypoints in both the images. One
of the standard keypoint detectors is Harris Corner Detector,
which identifies intersections of lines to tell whether something
is a sharp corner or not.
2. 
Second, all the pairs of keypoints from both images are
compared with each other to see whether there is a high
correlation around patches of images near the keypoints. If
there's a high match, it must mean that both the keypoints are
referring to the same location in the images.
For an in-depth understanding of ORB, refer to ORB: An efficient
alternative to SIFT or SURF
(https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6126544).
4. Find the best matches in features of both images using the cv2.BFMatcher
method:
bf = cv2.BFMatcher(cv2.NORM_HAMMING)
best_matches = bf.match(featuresA,featuresB)
matches = sorted(best_matches, key = lambda x:x.distance)
The output of the matches is a list of DMatch objects. The DMatch objects
have the following attributes:
DMatch.distance: The distance between descriptors. The lower, the
better
DMatch.trainIdx: Index of the descriptor in the train descriptors
DMatch.queryIdx: Index of the descriptor in the query descriptors
DMatch.imgIdx: Index of the train image

--- Strana 846 ---
Note that we have sorted the matches between the two image features
based on their distance.
5. Plot the matches using the following code:
img3 = cv2.drawMatches(trainImg,kpsA,queryImg,kpsB, \
                        matches[:100],None, \
        flags=cv2.DrawMatchesFlags_NOT_DRAW_SINGLE_POINTS)
show(img3)
The preceding code results in the following output:
Now, we need to find the right set of translation, rotation, and scaling
to superimpose the second image on top of the first. This set of
transformations is obtained as a homography matrix.
6. Fetch the homography corresponding to the two images:
kpsA = np.float32([kp.pt for kp in kpsA])
kpsB = np.float32([kp.pt for kp in kpsB])
ptsA = np.float32([kpsA[m.queryIdx] for m in matches])
ptsB = np.float32([kpsB[m.trainIdx] for m in matches])
(H, status) = cv2.findHomography(ptsA, ptsB, cv2.RANSAC,4)
Note that we are considering only those points that are identified as a
match between the two images. Furthermore, by performing

--- Strana 847 ---
homography, we have come up with a matrix, H, that is able to
transform ptsA with its associated points in ptsB using the following
equation:
7. Perform image stitching:
Given the H matrix, you can do the actual translation, rotation, and
scaling using the cv2.warpPerspective function. After doing this, on
trainImg, we will superimpose queryImg on it and we will have our
panoramic image!
width = trainImg.shape[1] + queryImg.shape[1]
height = trainImg.shape[0] + queryImg.shape[0]
result = cv2.warpPerspective(trainImg, H, (width, height))
result[0:queryImg.shape[0], 0:queryImg.shape[1]] = queryImg
_x = np.nonzero(result.sum(0).sum(-1) == 0)[0][0]
_y = np.nonzero(result.sum(1).sum(-1) == 0)[0][0]
show(result[:_y,:_x])
The preceding results in the following output:
From the preceding, we can see that we have successfully combined the two
images using the keypoints that were detected to have a match between the
two images. The key insight in this section should be that there are several

--- Strana 848 ---
keypoint-matching techniques that identify whether two local features in two
different images are the same or not.
Once the common keypoints are identified, we leveraged homography to
identify the transformations to perform. Finally, we perform the
transformation that will align the two images by leveraging the
cv2.warpperspective technique and stitch the two images together. In addition to
image stitching, this pipeline of techniques (keypoint identification,
identifying the matching keypoint between the two images, identifying the
transformation to be performed, and performing the transformation) is
immensely useful in applications such as image registration, where one
image needs to be superimposed on top of another.
Next, we will learn about leveraging pre-trained cascade classifiers when
identifying the location of the number plate on a car.
Detecting the number plate of a car
Imagine a scenario where we ask you to identify the location of a number
plate in the image of a car. One way we have learned how to do this in the
chapters on object detection is to come up with anchor box-based techniques
to identify the location of the number plate. This would require us to train
the model on a few hundred images before we leverage the model.
However, there is a cascade classifier that is readily available as a pre-
trained file that we can use to identify the location of the number plate in an
image of a car. A classifier is a cascade classifier if it consists of several
simpler classifiers (stages) that are applied subsequently to a region of
interest until at some stage, the candidate region is rejected or all the stages
are passed. These are analogous to convolution kernels that we have learned
how to use so far. Instead of having a deep neural network that learns kernels
from other kernels, this is a list of kernels that have been identified to give a
good classification score when all of their classifications are voted for.

--- Strana 849 ---
For example, a face cascade can have up to 6,000 kernels that deal with
some part of the face. A couple of these kernels might look like so:
These cascades are also referred to as Haar Cascade.
With this high-level understanding, let's chalk out the strategy that we will
adopt in leveraging pre-trained cascade classifiers to identify the location of
the number plate in an image of a car:
1. Import the relevant cascade.
2. Convert the image into a grayscale image.
3. Specify the minimum and maximum scale of the object of interest
present within our image.
4. Fetch the region proposals coming from the cascade classifier.
5. Draw bounding boxes around the region proposals.
Let's implement the preceding strategy in code:

--- Strana 850 ---
The following code is available as Detecting_the_number_plate_of_a_car.ipynb in the Chapter18
folder of this book's GitHub repository - https://tinyurl.com/mcvp-packt Be sure to copy the
URL from the notebook in GitHub to avoid any issue while reproducing the results
1. Fetch the number plate recognition cascade:
!wget 
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/zeusees/HyperLPR/master/model/cascade.xml
2. Fetch the image:
!wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/4hbem2kxzqcwo0y/car1.jpg
3. Load the image and cascade classifier:
!pip install torch_snippets
from torch_snippets import *
plate_cascade = cv2.CascadeClassifier('cascade.xml')
image = read("car1.jpg", 1)
4. Convert the image to grayscale and plot it:
image_gray = cv2.cvtColor(image,cv2.COLOR_RGB2GRAY)
5. Leverage the cascade to detect the number plate of multiple scales:
plates = plate_cascade.detectMultiScale(image_gray, 1.08, \
                                    2, minSize=(40, 40), \
                                    maxSize=(1000, 100))
plate_cascade.detectMultiScale will return all possible rectangular
regions that have a high convolve match with the cascade kernels –
which helps in identifying the location of the number plate within an
image. Furthermore, we are specifying the minimum and maximum
size of the width and height.
6. Loop through the plate region proposals (plates) and fetch the region
that is a little bigger than the region proposal:
image2 = image.astype('uint8')
for (x, y, w, h) in plates:
    print(x,y,w,h)
    x -= w * 0.14
    w += w * 0.75
    y -= h * 0.15
    h += h * 0.3
    cv2.rectangle(image2, (int(x), int(y)), \

--- Strana 851 ---
                (int(x + w), int(y + h)), (0, 255, 0), 10)
show(image2, grid=True)
The preceding code generates the following output:
From the preceding screenshot, we can see that the pre-trained cascade
classifier can identify the location of the number plate accurately. Similar to
the road lane detection exercise, even in the case of number plate detection,
we might encounter a scenario where our strategy is not working on a
different set of images. We encourage you to try out the preceding steps on
different custom images.
Summary

--- Strana 852 ---
In this chapter, we learned about leveraging some of the OpenCV-based
techniques to identify contours, edges, and lines, and track colored objects.
While we discussed a few use cases in this chapter, these techniques have a
much broader application across the various use cases. Then, we learned
about identifying similarities between two images using the keypoint and
feature extraction techniques when stitching two images related to each
other. Finally, we learned about cascade classifiers and leveraging the pre-
trained ones to arrive at an optimal solution with little development effort,
and also generating predictions in real time.
Broadly, through this chapter, we wanted to show that not all problems need
neural networks and, especially in constrained environments, we can use a
vast library of historical knowledge and techniques to quickly solve those
problems. Where it is not possible to solve with OpenCV, we have already
delved deep into neural networks.
Images are fascinating. Storing them has been one of humanity's earliest
endeavors and is one of the most powerful ways to capture content. The ease
of capturing images in the 21st century has opened up multitudes of
problems that can be solved with or without human intervention. We have
covered some of the most common as well as modern tasks using PyTorch –
image classification, object detection, image segmentation, image
embedding, image generation, manipulating the generated image, training
with very few data points, combining computer vision with NLP techniques,
and reinforcement learning. We have covered the working details of various
algorithms from scratch. We have also learned how to formulate a problem,
capture the data, create networks, and infer from the trained models, and
learned how to train and validate them. We understood how to pick up code
bases/pre-trained models and customize them for our tasks, and finally, we
learned about deploying our model.
We hope you have picked up the skills to handle images like it's second
nature and solve your own tasks of interest.
Most importantly, we hope this has been a joyful journey for you and that
you have enjoyed reading the book as much as we have enjoyed writing it!

--- Strana 853 ---
Appendix

--- Strana 854 ---
Chapter 1 - Artificial Neural
Network Fundamentals
1. What are the various layers in a neural network?
Input, Hidden, and Output Layers
2. What is the output of a feed-forward propagation?
Predictions that help in calculating loss value
3. How is the loss function of a continuous dependent variable different
from that of a binary dependent variable and also of a categorical
dependent variable?
MSE is the generally used loss function for a continuous dependent
variable and binary cross-entropy for a binary dependent variable.
Categorical cross-entropy is used for categorical dependent variables.
4. What is stochastic gradient descent?
It is a process of reducing loss, by adjusting weights in the direction of
decreasing gradient
5. What does a backpropagation exercise do?
It computes gradients of all weights with respect to loss using the
chain rule
6. How does the weight update of all the weights across layers happen
during back-propagation?
It happens using the formula dW = W – alpha*(dW/dL)
7. What all functions of a neural network happen within each epoch of
training a neural network?
For each batch in an epoch, perform forward-prop -> back prop ->
update weights -> repeat with next batch until the end of all the epochs
8. Why is training a network on a GPU faster when compared to training
it on a CPU?
More matrix operations can be performed in parallel on GPU hardware
9. How does the learning rate impact training a neural network?
Too high a learning rate will explode the weights, and too small a
learning rate will not change the weights at all
10. What is the typical value of the learning rate parameter?
1e-2 to 1e-5

--- Strana 855 ---
Chapter 2 - PyTorch Fundamentals
1. Why should we convert integer inputs into float values during
training?
nn.Linear (and almost all torch layers) only accepts floats as inputs
2. What are the various methods to reshape a tensor object?
reshape, view
3. Why is computation faster with tensor objects over NumPy arrays?
Capability to run on GPUs in parallel is only available on tensor
objects
4. What constitutes the init magic function in a neural network class?
Calling super().__init__() and specifying the neural network layers
5. Why do we perform zero gradients before performing back-
propagation?
To ensure gradients from previous calculations are flushed out
6. What magic functions constitute the dataset class?
__len__ and __getitem__
7. How do we make predictions on new data points?
By calling the model on the tensor as if it is a function – model(x)
8. How do we fetch the intermediate layer values of a neural network?
By creating a custom method
9. How does the Sequential method help in simplifying defining the
architecture of a neural network?
We can avoid creating __init__ and the forward method by connecting a
sequence of layers

--- Strana 856 ---
Chapter 3 - Building a Deep Neural
Network with PyTorch
1. What is the issue if the input values are not scaled in the input dataset?
It takes longer to adjust weights to optimal value because input values
vary so widely when they are unscaled
2. What could be the issue if the background has a white pixel color
while the content has a black pixel color when training a neural
network?
The neural network has to learn to ignore a majority of the not so
useful content that is white in color
3. What is the impact of batch size on the model's training time, accuracy
over a given number of epochs?
The larger the batch size more is the time taken to converge and more
iterations required to attain a high accuracy
4. What is the impact of the input value range on weight distribution at
the end of the training?
If the input value is not scaled to a certain range, certain weights can
aid in over-fitting
5. How does batch normalization help in improving accuracy?
Just like how it is important that we scale the inputs for better
convergence of the ANN, batch normalization scales the activations
for better convergence of its next layer
6. How do we know if a model has over-fit on training data?
When validation loss is constant or keeps increasing with more epochs
while training loss keeps decreasing over increasing epochs
7. How does regularization help in avoiding over-fitting?
Regularization techniques help the model to train in a constrained
environment thereby forcing ANN to adjust its weights in a less biased
fashion
8. How do L1 and L2 regularization differ from each other?
L1 = sum of the absolute value of weights, L2 = sum of the square of
weights are added to the loss value in addition to the typical loss

--- Strana 857 ---
9. How does Dropout help in reducing over-fitting?
By dropping some connections in ANN we are forcing networks to
learn from fewer data. This forces the model to generalize.

--- Strana 858 ---
Chapter 4 - Introducing
Convolutional Neural Networks
1. Why is the prediction on a translated image low when using traditional
neural networks?
All images were centered in the original dataset, so the ANN learned
the task for only centered images.
2. How is Convolution done?
Convolution is a multiplication between two matrices.
3. How are optimal weight values in a filter identified?
Through backpropagation.
4. How does the combination of convolution and pooling help in
addressing the issue of image translation?
While convolution gives important image features, pooling takes the
most prominent features in a patch of the image. This makes pooling a
robust operation over the vicinity, i.e., even if something is translated
by a few pixels, pooling will still return the expected output.
5. What do the filters in layers closer to the input layer learn?
Low-level features like edges.
6. What functionality does pooling do that helps in building a model?
It reduces input size by reducing feature map size and makes model
translation invariant.
7. Why can we not take the input image, flatten just like we did on the
FashionMNIST dataset, and train a model for real-world images?
If the image size is even modestly large, the number of parameters
connecting two layers will be in millions.
8. How does data augmentation help in improving image translation?
Data augmentation creates copies of images that are translated by a
few pixels. Thus the model is forced to learn the right classes even if
the object in the image is off-center.
9. In what scenario do we leverage collate_fn for dataloaders?
When we need to perform batch level transformations, which are
difficult/slow to perform in __getitem__.

--- Strana 859 ---
10. What is the impact of varying the number of training data points on
classification accuracy on the validation dataset?
In general, the larger the dataset size, the better will the model
accuracy.

--- Strana 860 ---
Chapter 5 - Transfer Learning for
Image Classification
1. What are VGG and ResNet pre-trained architectures trained on?
The images in the Imagenet dataset.
2. Why does VGG11 have an inferior accuracy to VGG16?
VGG11 has fewer layers when compared to VGG16.
3. What does the number 11 in VGG11 represent?
11 layers.
4. What is residual in the residual network?
The layer returns input in addition to the layer's transformation.
5. What is the advantage of a residual network?
It helps in avoiding vanishing gradients and also helps in increasing
model depth.
6. What are the various popular pre-trained models?
VGG, ResNet, Inception, AlexNet.
7. During transfer learning, why should images be normalized with the
same mean and standard deviation as those which were used during
training of a pre-trained model?
Models are trained such that they expect input images to be normalized
with a specific mean and standard deviation.
8. Why do we freeze certain parameters in a model?
We freeze so that the parameters will not be updated during
backpropagation. They are not updated as they are already well
trained.
9. How do we know the various modules present in a pre-trained model?
print(model)
10. How do we train a model which predicts categorical and numeric
values together?
By having multiple prediction heads and training with a separate loss
for each head.
11. Why might age and gender prediction code not work always for an
image of your own interest if we execute the same code as we wrote in
the age and gender estimation section?

--- Strana 861 ---
An Image that does not have similar distribution as training data can
give unexpected results.
12. How can we further improve the accuracy of the facial key-points
recognition model that we wrote in the facial keypoints prediction
section?
We can add color and geometric augmentations to the training process.

--- Strana 862 ---
Chapter 6 - Practical Aspects of
Image Classification
1. How are class activation maps obtained?
Refer to the 8 steps provided in the Generating CAMs section
2. How do batch normalization and data augmentation help when training
a model?
They help reduce over-fitting
3. What are the common reasons why a CNN model overfits?
No batch normalization, data augmentation, dropout
4. What are the various scenarios where the CNN model works with
training and validation data at the data scientists' end but not in the real
world?
Real-world data can have a different distribution from the data used to
train and validate the model. Additionally, the model might have over-
fitted on training data
5. What are the various scenarios where we leverage OpenCV packages?
While working in constrained environments, and also when speed to
infer is more important

--- Strana 863 ---
Chapter 7 - Basics of Object
Detection
1. How does the region proposal technique generate proposals?
It identifies regions that are similar in color, texture, size, and shape.
2. How is IoU calculated if there are multiple objects in an image?
IoU is calculated for each object with the ground truth, using
Intersection Over Union metric
3. Why does R-CNN take a long time to generate predictions?
Because we create as many forward propagations as there are
proposals
4. Why is Fast R-CNN faster when compared to R-CNN?
For all proposals, extracting the feature map from the VGG backbone
is common. This reduces almost 90% of the computations as compared
to Fast RCNN
5. How does RoI Pooling work?
All the selectivesearch crops are passed through adaptive pooling kernel
so that the final output is of the same size
6. What is the impact of not having multiple layers, post obtaining
feature map, when predicting the bounding box corrections?
You might not notice that the model did not learn to predict the
bounding boxes accurately
7. Why do we have to assign a higher weightage to regression loss when
calculating overall loss?
Classification loss is cross-entropy which is generally of the order
log(n) resulting in outputs that can have a high range. However,
bounding box regression losses are between 0 and 1. Hence regression
losses have to be scaled up.
8. How does Non-max suppression work?
By combining boxes of the same classes and with high IoUs, we
eliminate redundant bounding box predictions.

--- Strana 864 ---
Chapter 8 - Advanced Object
Detection
1. Why is Faster R-CNN faster when compared to Fast R-CNN?
We do not need to feed a lot of unnecessary proposals every time using
the selectivesearch technique. Instead, Faster R-CNN automatically
finds them using the region proposal network.
2. How are YOLO and SSD faster when compared to Faster R-CNN?
We don't need to rely on a new proposal network. The network directly
finds the proposals in a single go.
3. What makes YOLO and SSD single shot detector algorithms?
Networks predict all the proposals and predictions in one shot
4. What is the difference between the objectness score and class score?
Objectness identifies if an object exists or not. But class score predicts
what is the class for an anchor box whose objectness is non zero

--- Strana 865 ---
Chapter 9 - Image Segmentation
1. How does up-scaling help in U-Net architecture?
Upscaling helps the feature map to increase in size so that the final
output is the same size as the input size.
2. Why do we need to have a fully convolutional network in U-Net?
Because the outputs are also images, and it is difficult to predict an
image shaped tensor using the Linear layer.
3. How does RoI Align improve over RoI pooling in Mask R-CNN?
RoI Align takes offsets of predicted proposals to fine-align the feature
map.
4. What is the major difference between U-Net and Mask R-CNN for
segmentation?
U-Net is fully convolutional and with a single end2end network,
whereas Mask R-CNN uses mini networks such as Backbone, RPN,
etc to do different tasks. Mask R-CNN is capable of identifying and
separating several objects of the same type, but U-Net can only
identify (but not separate them into individual instances).
5. What is instance segmentation?
If there are different objects of the same class in the same image then
each such object is called an instance. Applying image segmentation to
predict, at a pixel level, all the instances separately is called instance
segmentation.

--- Strana 866 ---
Chapter 11 - Autoencoders and
Image Manipulation
1. What is an encoder in autoencoder?
A smaller neural network that converts an image into a vector
representation.
2. What loss function does autoencoder optimize for?
Pixel level mean square error, directly comparing prediction with
input.
3. How do autoencoders help in grouping similar images?
Similar images will return similar encodings, which are easier to
cluster.
4. When is the Convolutional autoencoder useful?
When the inputs are images.
5. Why do we get non-intuitive images if we randomly sample from
vector space of embeddings obtained from vanilla/convolutional
autoencoder?
The range of values in encodings is unconstrained, so proper outputs
are highly dependent on the right range of values. Random sampling,
in general, assumes a 0 mean and 1 standard deviation.
6. What are the loss functions that the Variational autoencoder optimizes
for?
Pixel level MSE and KL-Divergence of the distribution of mean and
standard deviation from the encoder.
7. How does the Variational autoencoder overcome the limitation of
vanilla/ convolutional auto-encoders to generate new images?
By constraining predicted encodings to have a normal distribution, all
encodings fall in the region of mean-0 and standard deviation 1, which
is easy to sample from.
8. During an adversarial attack, why do we modify the input image pixels
and not the weight values?
We do not have control over the neural network in adversarial attacks.

--- Strana 867 ---
9. In a neural style transfer what are the losses that we optimize for?
Perceptual (VGG) loss of generated image with the original image, and
the style-loss coming from the gram matrices of generated and style
images.
10. Why do we consider the activation of different layers and not the
original image when calculating style and content loss?
Using more intermediate layers ensures, the generated image is
preserving finer details about the image. Also, using more losses
makes the gradient ascent more stable.
11. Why do we consider gram matrix loss and not the difference between
images when calculating style loss?
Gram matrix gives an indication of the style of the image, i.e., how the
textures shapes, and colors are arranged and will ignore the actual
content. That is why it is more convenient for style loss.
12. Why do we warp images while building a model to generate deep
fakes?
Warping images helps act as a regularize. Further, it helps in
generating as many images as required.

--- Strana 868 ---
Chapter 12 - Image Generation
Using GANs
1. What happens if the learning rate of generator and discriminator
models is high?
Empirically, it is observed that the model stability is lower.
2. In a scenario where the generator and discriminator are very well
trained, what is the probability of a given image being real?
0.5.
3. Why do we use convtranspose2d in generating images?
We cannot upscale/ generate images using a linear layer.
4. Why do we have embeddings with high embedding size than the
number of classes in Conditional GANs?
Using more parameters gives the model more degrees of freedom to
learn the important features of each class.
5. How can we generate images of men that have a beard?
By using a conditional GAN. Just like we had male and female
images, we can have bearded males and other such classes while
training model.
6. Why do we have Tanh activation at the last layer in the generator and
not ReLU or Sigmoid?
The pixel range of normalized images is [-1,1] and hence we use Tanh
7. Why did we get realistic images even though we did not de-normalize
the generated data?
Even though pixel values are not between [0,255], the relative values
are sufficient for the make_grid utility to de-normalize input
8. What happens if we do not crop faces corresponding to images before
training the GAN?
If there is too much background, the GAN can get wrong signals as to
what is a face and what is not, so it might focus on generating more
realistic backgrounds
9. Why do the weights of the discriminator not get updated when the
training generator does (as generator_train_step function involves the
discriminator network)?

--- Strana 869 ---
It is a step by step process. When updating the generator we assume
the discriminator is able to do its best.
10. Why do we fetch loss on real and fake images while training
discriminator but only the loss on fake images while training
generator?
Because whatever generator creates are only fake images.

--- Strana 870 ---
Chapter 13 - Advanced GANs to
Manipulate Images
1. Why do we need a Pix2Pix GAN where a supervised learning
algorithm like U-Net could have worked to generate images from
contours?
U-net only uses pixel-level loss during training. We needed pix2pix
since there is no loss for realism when a U-net generates images.
2. Why do we need to optimize for 3 different loss functions in
CycleGAN?
Answer provided in the 7 points in CycleGAN section.
3. How do the tricks leverage in ProgressiveGAN help in building a
StyleGAN?
ProgressiveGAN helps the network to learn a few upsampling layers at
a time so that when the image has to be increased in size, the networks
responsible for generating current size images are optimal.
4. How do we identify latent vectors corresponding to a given custom
image?
By adjusting the randomly generated noise in such a way that the MSE
loss between the generated image and the image of interest is as
minimal as possible.

--- Strana 871 ---
Chapter 14 - Training with
Minimal Data Points
1. How are pre-trained word vectors obtained?
From an existing database such as GLOVE or word2vec
2. How do we map from an image feature embedding to word embedding
in Zero-shot learning?
By creating a suitable neural network that returns a vector of the same
shape as word-embedding and training with mse-loss (comparing
prediction with actual word-embedding)
3. Why is the Siamese network called so?
Because we always produce and compare two outputs with each other,
for identicalness. Siamese stands for twins.
4. How does the Siamese network come up with the similarity between
the two images?
The loss function forces the network to predict that the outputs have a
smaller distance if the images are similar.

--- Strana 872 ---
Chapter 15 - Combining Computer
Vision and NLP Techniques
1. Why are CNN and RNN combined in image captioning?
CNN is needed for capturing image features, whereas, RNN is needed
for creating the language output.
2. Why are start and end tokens provided in image captioning but not in
handwritten transcription?
CTC loss does not need such tokens, and moreover, in OCR, we
generate tokens in all time-steps in one shot.
3. Why is the CTC loss function leveraged in handwriting transcription?
We cannot delineate timesteps in the image. CTC takes care of
aligning key image features with timesteps.
4. How do transformers help in object detection?
By treating anchor boxes as embedding inputs for transformer
decoders DETR learns dynamic anchor boxes thereby helping object
detection.

--- Strana 873 ---
Chapter 16 - Combining Computer
Vision and Reinforcement
Learning
1. How is the value calculated for a given state?
By computing the expected reward at that state
2. How is the Q-table populated?
By computing expected reward for all states
3. Why do we have a discount factor in state action value calculation?
Due to uncertainty, we are unsure of how the future might work.
Hence we reduce future rewards' weightage which is done by the way
of discounting
4. What is the need for an exploration-exploitation strategy?
Only exploitation will make the model stagnant and predictable and
hence model should be able to explore and find unseen steps that can
be even more rewarding than what the model already has already
learned.
5. What is the need for Deep Q-Learning?
We let the neural network learn the likely reward system without the
need for costly algorithms that may take too much time or demand
visibility of the entire environment.
6. How is the value of a given state action combination calculated using
Deep Q-Learning?
It is simply the output of the neural network. The input is the state and
the network predicts one expected reward for every action in the given
state.
7. What are the possible actions in CARLA environment?
accelerate – [-1,0,1] (brake, no-acceleration, accelerate)
steer – [-1,0,1] (left, no-steer, right)

--- Strana 874 ---
Other Books You May Enjoy
If you enjoyed this book, you may be interested in these other books by
Packt:
Hands-On Natural Language Processing with PyTorch 1.x
Thomas Dop
ISBN: 978-1-78980-274-0
Use NLP techniques for understanding, processing, and generating text
Understand PyTorch, its applications, and how it can be used to build
deep linguistic models
Explore the wide variety of deep learning architectures for NLP
Develop the skills you need to process and represent both structured
and unstructured NLP data
Become well-versed with state-of-the-art technologies and exciting
new developments in the NLP domain
Create chatbots using attention-based neural networks

--- Strana 875 ---
PyTorch Computer Vision Cookbook
Michael Avendi
ISBN: 978-1-83864-483-3
Develop, train and deploy deep learning algorithms using PyTorch 1.x
Understand how to fine-tune and change hyperparameters to train deep
learning algorithms
Perform various CV tasks such as classification, detection, and
segmentation
Implement a neural style transfer network based on CNNs and pre-
trained models
Generate new images and implement adversarial attacks using GANs
Implement video classification models based on RNN, LSTM, and 3D-
CNN
Discover best practices for training and deploying deep learning
algorithms for CV applications
Leave a review - let other readers
know what you think
Please share your thoughts on this book with others by leaving a review on
the site that you bought it from. If you purchased the book from Amazon,

--- Strana 876 ---
please leave us an honest review on this book's Amazon page. This is vital
so that other potential readers can see and use your unbiased opinion to
make purchasing decisions, we can understand what our customers think
about our products, and our authors can see your feedback on the title that
they have worked with Packt to create. It will only take a few minutes of
your time, but is valuable to other potential customers, our authors, and
Packt. Thank you!
