
--- Strana 1 ---

--- Strana 2 ---
Modern Tkinter for Busy Python
Developers
Quickly learn to create great looking user
interfaces for Windows, Mac and Linux using
Python's standard GUI toolkit
Mark Roseman
Late Afternoon Press

--- Strana 3 ---
Modern Tkinter for Busy Python
Developers
1. Introduction
1.1. Who This Book Is For
1.2. Why Tkinter?
1.3. Modern Best Practices
1.4. The Better Way Forward
1.5. How to Use
2. A Brief History of Tk and Tkinter
2.1. The Early Years
2.2. The Middle Years
2.3. The Silent Revolution
2.4. Tk Today
2.5. Tkinter
3. Installing Tkinter
3.1. Installing Tk on macOS
3.2. Installing Tk on Windows
3.3. Installing Tk on Linux
3.4. The Obligatory First Program
4. A First (Real) Example
4.1. Design
4.2. Code
4.3. Step-by-Step Walkthrough
4.4. What's Missing
5. Tk Concepts
5.1. Widgets
5.2. Geometry Management
5.3. Event Handling
6. Basic Widgets

--- Strana 4 ---
6.1. Frame
6.2. Label
6.3. Button
6.4. Checkbutton
6.5. Radiobutton
6.6. Entry
6.7. Combobox
7. The Grid Geometry Manager
7.1. Columns and Rows
7.2. Spanning Multiple Cells
7.3. Layout within the Cell
7.4. Handling Resize
7.5. Padding
7.6. Additional Grid Features
7.7. Nested Layouts
8. More Widgets
8.1. Listbox
8.2. Scrollbar
8.3. Text
8.4. Scale
8.5. Spinbox
8.6. Progressbar
9. Event Loop
9.1. Blocking the Event Loop
9.2. One Step at a Time
9.3. Asynchronous I/O
9.4. Threads or Processes
9.5. Nested Event Processing
10. Menus
10.1. Menubars
10.2. Platform Menus
10.3. Contextual Menus
11. Windows and Dialogs
11.1. Creating and Destroying Windows
11.2. Window Behavior and Styles

--- Strana 5 ---
11.3. Dialog Windows
12. Organizing Complex Interfaces
12.1. Separator
12.2. Label Frames
12.3. Paned Windows
12.4. Notebook
13. Fonts, Colors, Images
13.1. Fonts
13.2. Colors
13.3. Images
14. Canvas
14.1. Creating Items
14.2. Event Bindings
14.3. Tags
14.4. Scrolling
15. Text
15.1. The Basics
15.2. Modifying the Text in Code
15.3. Formatting with Tags
15.4. Events and Bindings
15.5. Selecting Text
15.6. Marks
15.7. Images and Widgets
15.8. Even More
16. Treeview
16.1. Adding Items to the Tree
16.2. Rearranging Items
16.3. Displaying Information for each Item
16.4. Item Appearance and Events
16.5. Customizing the Display
17. Styles and Themes
17.1. Using Existing Themes
17.2. Using Styles
17.3. What's Inside a Style?

--- Strana 6 ---
17.4. Manipulating Styles
17.5. Sound Difficult to you?
17.6. Advanced: More on Elements
18. Case Study: IDLE Modernization
18.1. Project Goals
18.2. Menus
18.3. Main Window
18.4. Preferences Dialog
18.5. Other Dialogs
18.6. Window Integration
18.7. Workarounds, Hacks, and More
Copyright
About the Author

--- Strana 7 ---
1. Introduction
This book will help you quickly get up to speed and build mainstream
desktop graphical user interfaces with Python 3 and Tkinter. As you
may know, Tkinter is the Python interface to a GUI library called Tk.
It was initially developed for the Tcl language but widely adopted by
other dynamic languages, including Ruby, Perl, and of course,
Python.
This book will teach you what you need to know about Tkinter and
Tk and, in particular, Tk 8.5 and 8.6. Tk 8.5 was a milestone release.
It marked a significant departure from older versions of Tk that most
people know and love recognize.
The downside is that unless you know one or two crucial things,
it's actually not that significant a release. In fact, it will seem like
nothing changed at all. Due to backward compatibility, unless
existing programs make a few simple changes, they won't look any
different. (Imagine if you just moved into a rustic and quirky historical
home. You'd want someone to point out where they've hidden the
light switches and power outlets, wouldn't you?)
If you're new to Tk or creating a new program, this book will
ensure you get started the right way. If you've used Tk before, it will
help you bring your knowledge right up to date. And if you're
updating code that may have been written years ago, you'll see step-
by-step how to bring it into the modern age. It's a cliche, but I can't

--- Strana 8 ---
believe how much I've learned in writing this book, and I've been
using Tk for over twenty-five years.
The general state of Tk documentation (outside the Tcl-oriented
reference documentation, which is excellent) is unfortunately not at a
high point these days. This is particularly true for developers using
Tk from languages other than Tcl, and developers working on
multiple platforms. So this book will, as much as possible, target
developers on the three main platforms (Windows, macOS, and
Linux).
It's also not a reference guide. It's not going to cover everything,
just the essentials you need in 95% of applications. The rest you can
find in reference documentation.

--- Strana 9 ---
1.1. Who This Book Is For
This book is designed for developers building tools and applications
in Tk. It's also concerned with fairly mainstream graphical user
interfaces, with buttons, lists, checkboxes, rich text editing, 2D
graphics, etc. So if you're either looking to hack on Tk's internal C
code or build the next great 3D immersive game interface, this is
probably not the material for you.
This book also doesn't teach you Python, so you should have a
basic grasp on that already. This book uses Python 3 exclusively and
does not cover using Tkinter in Python 2. Similarly, you should have
a basic familiarity with desktop applications in general. While you
don't have to be a user interface designer, some appreciation of GUI
design is always helpful.

--- Strana 10 ---
1.2. Why Tkinter?
If you're new to building desktop graphical user interfaces in Python,
why might you use Tkinter? After all, there are many options,
including PyQt, PySide, WxPython, PySimpleGUI, and Kivy. Each
has various pluses and minuses.
There are several reasons people chose Tkinter. It's Python's
default GUI toolkit, the only one included in its standard library. It's
cross-platform so that the same code can run across Windows,
macOS, or Linux systems. Perhaps most importantly, it's easy to
learn and work with. It keeps boilerplate and overhead to a minimum.
It's Pythonic; it just feels right. Unlike many options which are front
ends to C++ libraries, Tkinter is built on a user interface tool
designed for dynamic languages.
Many large commercial applications these days are web-based. In
fact, web (and mobile) development sucked most of the life out of
desktop user interface toolkits, which is why so many mature tools
are still widely used today. Writing desktop applications still makes
sense in many situations, whether open source projects, personal or
company-internal tools, or putting together a quick front end for a
specific project. These are situations where Tkinter excels.

--- Strana 11 ---
1.3. Modern Best Practices
This book is all about building modern user interfaces using the
current tools Tk has to offer. It's all about the best practices you need
to know to do this.
For most tools, you wouldn't think you'd have to say something
like that. But for Tk, that's not the case. Tk has had a very long
evolution, and any evolution tends to leave you with a bit of cruft.
Couple that with how much graphical user interface platforms and
standards have evolved in that time. You can see where keeping
something as large and complex as a GUI library up to date (and
backward compatible) may be challenging.
Tk has, for most of its lifetime, gotten a bad rap, to put it mildly.
Some of this has been well deserved, most of it not so much. Like
any GUI tool, it can be used to create absolutely terrible looking and
outdated user interfaces. Still, with the proper care and attention, it
can also be used to develop spectacularly good ones. Most people
know about the crappy ones; most of the good ones people don't
even know are done in Tk. In this book, we're going to focus on what
you need to build good user interfaces. Thankfully, this isn't nearly as
hard as it used to be before Tk 8.5.
So to sum up: modern desktop graphical user interfaces, using
modern conventions and design sense, using the modern tools
provided by Tk 8.5 and 8.6.
Tk Extensions
When it comes to modern best practices, Tk extensions deserve a
special word of note. Over the years, developers have created all
kinds of add-ons to Tk, for example, adding new widgets not
available in the core (or at least not at the time). Some well-known
and quite popular Tk extensions include BLT, Tix, iWidgets,
BWidgets; there are many, many others.
Many of these extensions were created decades ago. Because
core Tk has always been highly backward compatible, these

--- Strana 12 ---
extensions generally continue to work with newer versions. However,
they may not reflect current platform conventions or styles. While
they "work", they can make your application appear extremely dated
or out of place. In many cases, the facilities they provide have been
obsoleted by newer and more modern facilities recently built into Tk
itself.
If you decide to use Tk extensions, it's highly recommended that
you investigate and review your choices carefully.

--- Strana 13 ---
1.4. The Better Way Forward
Tk gives you a lot of choices. There are at least six different ways to
layout widgets on the screen. Multiple widgets can be used to
accomplish the same thing, and that's before considering any Tk
extensions. Tk emphasized backward compatibility, which is a
double-edged sword. Most of these old ways of doing things still
keep working, year after year. That doesn't necessarily mean you
should still be using some of them.
So there are many in Tk, but frankly, all that choice gets in the
way. If you want to learn and use Tk, you don't need to know ten
different ways to accomplish the same thing. You shouldn't need to
do all the research, explore all the options, and make a choice
yourself. You need to know the right way to do things today. That's
what this book will give you. Think of it as the documentation
equivalent of opinionated software.
So we'll often use different ways of doing things than you'd find in
other documentation or examples. Usually, it's because when those
were written, the better ways didn't even exist yet. (Here's a litmus
test for Tk documentation: does it use the archaic pack instead of the
modern grid?) Later on, once you're an expert, and you're
encountering some wacky situation where the typical choice doesn't
fit, you can go hunt around for alternatives.

--- Strana 14 ---
1.5. How to Use
While the book is designed to be used linearly, feel free to jump
around as you see fit. We'll often provide links to go for more
information, such as the full reference for a particular command.
While Tk's native reference documentation is Tcl-based, it's
extremely accurate and well written, and usually easy to "translate"
into Python. Unfortunately, there's not yet Tkinter reference
documentation that approaches its quality or completeness.
You can find a GitHub repository containing many of the larger
examples accessible via https://tkdocs.com/code/. You'll also find
direct links below the code listings in the book.
Conventions
As is typically done, code listings, interpreter or shell commands and
responses will be indicated with a fixed-width font. When showing
an interactive session with the interpreter, the parts you enter will be
in bold fixed-width.
When describing procedure or method calls, the literal parts (e.g.,
the method name) will be in a plain fixed-width font, parameters
where you should fill in the actual value will add italics, and optional
parameters will be surrounded by '?', e.g. set variable ?value?.
In general, when referring to these procedures or method calls in
the text, we'll omit punctuation (parentheses, commas, equals, etc.)
that Tkinter requires. Code snippets show the full syntax, of course.
You'll see some paragraphs that are separated from the main text.
These are used for several different things. Each is identified with a
different icon, as follows:
This paragraph will help point out common mistakes that people make
or suggest useful but not necessarily obvious solutions related to the
topic.

--- Strana 15 ---
This indicates a new way of doing things in Tk 8.5 or Tk 8.6 that is very
different from how things would have been done previously. People
familiar with older versions of Tk, or working on programs developed
with older versions of Tk, should pay close attention.
This paragraph provides some additional background information. It's
not strictly necessary to learning the topic at hand, but that might help
you understand a bit more about how or why things are done the way
they are.
This indicates an area in Tk that could most charitably be described as
a "rough edge." It may indicate a bad or missing API requiring you to
use a workaround in your code. Because these things tend to get fixed
up over time, it's worth marking them in your code with a "TODO." That way,
you can remember to go back later and see if a newer API resolves the
problem cleanly.

--- Strana 16 ---
2. A Brief History of Tk and
Tkinter
Tk is a user interface toolkit that makes it easy to build desktop
graphical user interfaces. Tk is cross-platform, meaning the same
code can be made to run the same on Windows, macOS, or X11
under a huge range of Unix systems (e.g., Linux). Compared with
many user interface toolkits, Tk is also quite high-level, meaning that
it takes care of many details for you. That makes your code simpler.
You don't have to be a professional programmer to use it. It's ideal
for when you want to quickly create a user interface, perhaps for a
personal project or an internal company tool.
Tk is also unique in that it was designed from the start to be
paired with a high-level dynamic programming language (like Tcl,
Python, Ruby, Perl) as opposed to lower-level languages like C or
C++. In fact, you'll find a Tk binding for most dynamic languages
available today. It's easy to embed and produces executables much
smaller than many other GUI libraries. It also is BSD-licensed,
making it attractive for both open source and commercial
developers.
Together, these factors make Tk an attractive option for people
trying to develop a GUI on Windows, macOS, or Unix, especially if
they want it to run on all three. And because Tk is used from
dynamic programming languages, it's an accessible tool not only for

--- Strana 17 ---
hardcore developers but also for many people without a computer
science or engineering background.
Because it's been around forever and has changed a lot over the
years, there's a ton of horribly outdated and incorrect information out
there. This makes it pretty overwhelming if you just want to figure out
if and how to use Tk today. That's what this book will help with.
Before diving in, we'll provide a brief history of where it came
from, why and how it caught on, and how things have evolved. This
will help put a great many things in context.

--- Strana 18 ---
2.1. The Early Years
Tk was created around 1988 by John Ousterhout, a computer
science professor at UC Berkeley. It was developed as a way to
easily build GUI's from his Tcl scripting language. Tcl was Unix-only
at first, and so Tk ran under X11. The first open source release was
around 1991, with rapid adoption starting about a year later. You can
find John's recollections of the early years at the main Tcl/Tk
developer site, www.tcl.tk.
Tk caught on because lots of people at universities were using
Unix/X11 in the early 1990s. The mainstream X11 libraries like Xt,
Xaw and Motif were horribly painful to use. A "hello world"
application would literally take a couple hundred lines of C or C++.
Then Tk comes along, where a good looking "hello world" is a one-
liner, and the toolkit took care of all the housekeeping like redrawing,
clipping, hit detection, event dispatch, and more. It was a no-brainer.
For a (very brief) moment, Tcl and Tk were the cool and exciting
new things. Developers and users of languages other than Tcl paid
attention too, and many language bindings to Tk were developed.
Python's Tkinter first appeared around mid-1994.

--- Strana 19 ---
2.2. The Middle Years
In 1994, John moved to Sun Labs, where he assembled a team to
help move Tcl/Tk forward even more. The bulk of the team shifted to
a startup called Scriptics (later Ajuba) and continued to evolve Tcl/Tk
until the company was acquired in 2000, mostly for the non-Tcl/Tk
assets it had developed.
For Tk, those years produced a major step forward, the
development of the Windows and macOS versions. This meant that
the same script to produce a GUI would run unmodified on Unix,
Windows, or macOS.
Stewardship of Tk (and Tcl) moved to a more community-centered
model in mid-2000, with a Tcl/Tk core team at the center, but with
much broader participation.
Tk continued to evolve, but the pace slowed. Incremental
enhancements and adding support for new macOS and Windows
versions precluded any major leaps forward. Almost no core work
aimed to track the dueling Gnome/KDE user interface standards
emerging on Linux. Though Tk has always been highly
customizable, unless you knew what you were doing and put in the
effort, it started looking more and more dated.

--- Strana 20 ---
2.3. The Silent Revolution
Tk 8.5.0 was released on December 20, 2007, and was as crucial a
step forward as the Windows and macOS versions in 8.0, over ten
years earlier. The core distribution included "new" widgets for such
now-common 
components 
like 
trees, 
combo-boxes, 
tabbed
notebooks, and more. These had only been available before as add-
ons (with far too many to choose from).
Most importantly, Tk 8.5 added a new "themed" widget set, which
complements but does not replace the "classic" widget set. The
classic widgets provide full backward compatibility, retaining their
almost infinite flexibility, but often dated appearance. The new
themed widgets look much better on their respective platforms out of
the box. It was intended that developers should use them for nearly
all mainstream user interface needs. The new widgets also support
changing their look and feel via themes, making "skinnable" user
interfaces easy for applications and platforms where they are
appropriate.
Why do I call this Tk's "silent revolution?" This all happened about
ten years past its heyday. At the time, web development had
relegated desktop GUI's to irrelevancy, and few developers were
paying attention to Tk. And if you weren't paying attention, you
wouldn't know that anything changed. Thanks to backward
compatibility, for most people, it really didn't. Sadly.

--- Strana 21 ---
2.4. Tk Today
This is being written in September 2020. In the dozen years since
8.5.0 was released, there have been approximately 30 new releases
of the core Tcl/Tk package, which is currently at version 8.6.10. In
that time, even though the development of new features has slowed,
it's continued to improve.

--- Strana 22 ---
2.5. Tkinter
Python's Tkinter was one of the earlier bindings to Tk, and certainly
one of the most popular. Tkinter was originally written by Fredrik
Lundh. Tkinter works like most Tk bindings by embedding a Tcl
interpreter inside the Python application. Tkinter commands are then
translated into Tcl commands and evaluated in that interpreter.
In 2009, Guilherme Polo added support for the newer "ttk" themed
widgets from Tk into Tkinter, starting with Python 2.7 (on the 2.x
branch), and Python 3.1. This opened the door for building far better
user interfaces with Tkinter. Documentation remained the main
obstacle to Python programmers learning about the new themed.

--- Strana 23 ---
3. Installing Tkinter
In this chapter, you'll get Tk and Tkinter installed on your machine,
verify it works, and then see a quick example of what a Tkinter
program looks like.
In the past, this was a multiple-step process. However, if you're
using Python 3.7 or newer, you're in luck! The Python binary
installers for macOS and Windows, available at python.org, now
include everything you need to use Tkinter out of the box, including
the underlying Tcl/Tk libraries.
If you're running on Linux, all popular distros have packages
available that also make installing Tkinter a breeze.
If you're using an older version of Python or compiling from
source, you'll need to install Tcl/Tk on your system. If you're in this
situation, we'll explain how to use a free distribution called ActiveTcl
(made by ActiveState) to do so.
Remember, this book assumes you're using Python 3, not
Python 2. There are some significant differences between the two.
That includes module naming, which is the first thing you'll encounter
when trying to use Tkinter. In Python 2.x, the module was named
Tkinter (note the uppercase "T"), while in Python 3.x it is named
tkinter (all lowercase).

--- Strana 24 ---
3.1. Installing Tk on macOS
The Easy Way
As noted, the easiest way to get Tk and Tkinter installed on your
system is using Python's binary installer, available at python.org.
Thanks to work by Python core developer Ned Deily, binary installers
starting with version 3.7 include Tcl and Tk.
Remember, we're using Python 3.x here, not 2.x. As of this writing, the
latest 3.9 installer (3.9.0rc1) includes Tk 8.6.8.
If, however, you're compiling Python yourself, you'll have more work
to do. Read on...
Installing Tcl/Tk
The Tkinter module is included with core Python, of course, but you'll
need a version of Tcl/Tk on your system to compile it against. Do
yourself a huge favor and get the most recent version.
Whatever you do, do not rely on the Tk versions included in
macOS! Older versions included Tk 8.4.x. Even more recent macOS
versions include an early 8.5 version (8.5.9, released in 2010), which
has several serious bugs that are easily triggered by Tkinter.
While there are several different ways to get Tcl and Tk onto your
machine, the easiest and most recommended is to use the ActiveTcl
distribution.
In your web browser, visit www.activestate.com/products/activetcl.
Download ActiveTcl (as of this writing, it's version 8.6.9). Make sure
to download an 8.6.x version, not something older! Note that you will
need to create an account with ActiveState (no cost) to download it.
After it's downloaded, run the installer to get Tcl and Tk loaded onto
your machine.
If you're a masochist and want to read about other Tcl/Tk options and
variations and how they interact with Python, see the Mac Tcl/Tk page

--- Strana 25 ---
at python.org/download/mac/tcltk. If you want to compile Tcl/Tk from source,
see www.tcl.tk.
Compiling Python
When compiling Python from source, you may need to tell it where to
find the ActiveTcl (or other) distribution. Otherwise, it might not find
any Tcl/Tk distribution (so Tkinter won't work), or it could find the
(ancient and broken) version of Tcl/Tk supplied with macOS.
If you're using Python 3.9 or newer, the build system will look in
/Library/Frameworks, where ActiveState and other custom builds are
typically installed.
% ./configure 
% make
The initial "%" is the Unix shell prompt; you don't have to type it. The
rest of it should all go on one line, without adding line breaks.
When compiling Python versions prior to 3.9, you will need to add
two new command-line options to the initial ./configure in the
Python build process. The first provides the locations of the Tcl and
Tk include files, and the second provides the locations of the Tcl and
Tk libraries. These are usually found in two different locations (i.e.,
Tcl.framework and Tk.framework). You therefore need to provide two
locations for the include files and two for the libraries. Note the
location of the quotes in the command below and the spaces
separating the Tcl and Tk paths.
% ./configure --with-tcltk-includes="-
I/Library/Frameworks/Tcl.framework/Headers -
I/Library/Frameworks/Tk.framework/Headers" --with-tcltk-
libs="/Library/Frameworks/Tcl.framework/Tcl 
/Library/Frameworks/Tk.framework/Tk" 
% make
If you have multiple versions of Tcl/Tk installed on your system (and in
the same frameworks), you may need to check inside the framework to

--- Strana 26 ---
ensure the most recent version is marked as the current one. If not, you may
need to adjust your paths to point to the specific version (i.e., Versions/8.x/)
within each framework.
When everything is built, be sure to test it out. Start Python from your
terminal, e.g.
% ./python.exe
This should give you the Python command prompt. From the prompt,
enter these two commands:
>>> import tkinter 
>>> tkinter._test()
This should pop up a small window; the first line at the top of the
window should say "This is Tcl/Tk version 8.6"; make sure it is not
8.4 or 8.5!
Get an error saying No module named tkinter? You're probably using
Python 2. This book assumes Python 3.
You can also get the exact version of Tcl/Tk that is being used with:
>>> tkinter.Tcl().eval('info patchlevel')
It should return something like '8.6.9'.
Verified install using ActiveTcl 8.6.9.8609.2 and Python 3.90rc1 source
code from python.org on macOS 10.15.6.

--- Strana 27 ---
3.2. Installing Tk on Windows
Tkinter (and, since Python 3.1, ttk, which is the interface to the
newer themed widgets) is included in the Python standard library.
We highly recommend installing Python using the standard binary
distributions from python.org. These will automatically install Tcl/Tk,
which of course, is needed by Tkinter.
If you're instead building Python from source code, the Visual
Studio projects included in the "PCbuild" directory can automatically
fetch and compile Tcl/Tk on your system.
Once you've installed or compiled Python, test it out to make sure
Tkinter works. From the Python prompt, enter these two commands:
>>> import tkinter 
>>> tkinter._test()
This should pop up a small window; the first line at the top of the
window should say "This is Tcl/Tk version 8.6"; make sure it is not
8.4 or 8.5!
Get an error saying No module named tkinter? You're probably using
Python 2. This book assumes Python 3.
You can also get the exact version of Tcl/Tk that is being used with:
>>> tkinter.Tcl().eval('info patchlevel')
It should return something like '8.6.9'.
Verified using Python 3.9.0rc1 binary installer from python.org
(containing Tcl/Tk 8.6.9) on Windows 10 version 1809.

--- Strana 28 ---
3.3. Installing Tk on Linux
Tkinter (and, since Python 3.1, ttk, which is the interface to the
newer themed widgets) is included in the Python standard library. It
relies on Tcl/Tk being installed on your system. Depending on how
you install Python, this may not happen automatically.
Remember, we're using Python 3.x here, not 2.x.
You have several different options to get Python and Tkinter
onto your machine. We'll show you two, using your distro's package
manager, or compiling from source.
Option 1. Your Linux Distribution's Package Manager
Currently supported Linux distributions usually install a recent
version of Python 3.x by default. If not, they have a package (.deb,
.rpm, etc.) that you can install using their package manager. This is
usually the easiest way to install Python.
However, after you're done installing Python, you should verify
that Tkinter works correctly. Start up a Python shell (e.g.
/usr/bin/python3) and verify the install (see below).
You may find that when you try to import tkinter that you get an
error. Sometimes it will tell you that you need to install another
package. If so, follow the instructions, and try again. It may also just
give you Python's standard error message: ModuleNotFoundError:
No module named 'tkinter'.
If you're getting an error saying No module named tkinter (without the
single quotes around the module name), you're probably using Python
2. This book assumes Python 3.
Sometimes Linux distributions separate out their Tkinter support into
a separate package. That saves installing the Tcl/Tk libraries for
people who are using Python but not Tkinter. If so, you'll need to find

--- Strana 29 ---
and install this package, which wiil also ensure that an appropriate
version of the Tcl/Tk libraries are installed on your system.
For example, running Ubuntu 20.04LTS, Python 3.8.2 is already
installed. However, to use Tkinter, you need to install a separate
package, named python3-tk:
% sudo apt-get install python3-tk
In this case, that package provides Tcl/Tk 8.6.x libraries to be used
with Python.
Option 2. Install Tcl/Tk and Compile the Standard Python
Distribution
If you'd like to use the standard source distribution from python.org,
you can certainly do that.
But to do so, you'll need to get the Tcl and Tk include files and
libraries loaded on your machine first. Again, while there are several
ways to do that, the easiest is to download and install ActiveTcl.
Another option would be to install the Tk development package, e.g.
tk8.6-dev via your package manager.
In your web browser, go to www.activestate.com/products/activetcl.
Download the latest version of ActiveTcl for Linux. Make sure you're
downloading an 8.6 or newer version. Note that you will need to
create an account with ActiveState (no cost) to download it. After it's
downloaded, unpack it, run the installer (sudo ./install.sh), and
follow along. You'll end up with a fresh install of ActiveTcl, located in
e.g. /opt/ActiveTcl-8.6.
Next, download the current Python 3.x source distribution from
python.org, and unpack it. On your configure line, you'll need to tell it
how to find the version of Tcl/Tk you installed. Then build as usual:
% ./configure --with-tcltk-includes='-I/opt/ActiveTcl-
8.6/include' 
       --with-tcltk-libs='/opt/ActiveTcl-8.6/lib/libtcl8.6.so 
/opt/ActiveTcl-8.6/lib/libtk8.6.so' 

--- Strana 30 ---
% make 
% make install
If you installed tk8.6-dev via your package manager instead of using
ActiveTcl, the include files should be found in /usr/include/tcl8.6, and
the 
libraries 
libtcl8.6.so 
and 
libtk8.6.so 
should 
be 
in
/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu.
Make sure to verify your install (see below).
Didn't work? There may have been an error compiling Python's tkinter
code. To check, from the main Python source directory, try touch
Modules/_tkinter.c (note the underscore) and then make to recompile
it. Watch closely for error messages.
The most common thing is that the way you specified the Tcl/Tk include and
libraries needs to be changed somehow. Or if you get messages that certain
include files can't be found (e.g. X11/Xlib.h) you may need to install additional
packages on your Linux distribution (e.g. apt-get install libx11-dev). Once
you get it to compile without errors, don't forget to make install.
Verifying your Install
At the Python command prompt, enter these two commands:
>>> import tkinter 
>>> tkinter._test()
This should pop up a small window; the first line at the top of the
window should say "This is Tcl/Tk version 8.6"; make sure it is not
8.4!
If it gives you an error when you try to import tkinter (e.g. "If this
fails your Python may not be configured for Tk"), something hasn't
been set up correctly. If you compiled Python yourself, see above to
check for compile errors.
Get an error saying No module named tkinter? You're probably using
Python 2. This book assumes Python 3.

--- Strana 31 ---
You can also get the exact version of Tcl/Tk that is being used with:
>>> tkinter.Tcl().eval('info patchlevel')
It should return something like '8.6.9'.
Verified install using ActiveTcl 8.6.9.8609.2 and Python 3.90rc1 source
code from python.org on Ubuntu 20.04LTS.

--- Strana 32 ---
3.4. The Obligatory First Program
To make sure that everything actually did work, let's try to run a
"Hello World" program in Tk. While for something this short, you
could just type it in directly to the interpreter, instead use your
favorite text editor to put it in a file.
from tkinter import * 
from tkinter import ttk 
root = Tk() 
ttk.Button(root, text="Hello World").grid() 
root.mainloop()
  https://tkdocs.com/code/hello.py
Save this to a file named "hello.py". From a command prompt, type:
% python hello.py
Couldn't find hello.py? You might be looking in the wrong directory. Try
providing the full path to hello.py.
Our first program. Some work left to do before the IPO.

--- Strana 33 ---
4. A First (Real) Example
With that out of the way, let's try a slightly more substantial example,
which will give you an initial feel for what the code behind a real Tk
program looks like.

--- Strana 34 ---
4.1. Design
We'll create a simple GUI tool to convert a distance in feet to the
equivalent distance in meters. If we were to sketch this out, it might
look something like this:
A sketch of our feet to meters conversion program.
So it looks like we have a short text entry widget that will let us type in
the number of feet. A "Calculate" button will get the value out of that
entry, perform the calculation, and put the result in a label below the
entry. We've also got three static labels ("feet," "is equivalent to," and
"meters"), which help our user figure out how to work the application.
The next thing we need to do is look at the layout. The widgets that
we've included seem to be naturally divided into a grid with three
columns and three rows. In terms of layout, things seem to naturally
divide into three columns and three rows, as illustrated below:

--- Strana 35 ---
The layout of our user interface, which follows a 3 x 3 grid.

--- Strana 36 ---
4.2. Code
Now here is the Python code needed to create this entire application
using Tkinter.
from tkinter import * 
from tkinter import ttk 
 
def calculate(*args): 
    try: 
        value = float(feet.get()) 
        meters.set(int(0.3048 * value * 10000.0 + 
0.5)/10000.0) 
    except ValueError: 
        pass 
 
root = Tk() 
root.title("Feet to Meters") 
 
mainframe = ttk.Frame(root, padding="3 3 12 12") 
mainframe.grid(column=0, row=0, sticky=(N, W, E, S)) 
root.columnconfigure(0, weight=1) 
root.rowconfigure(0, weight=1) 
 
feet = StringVar() 
feet_entry = ttk.Entry(mainframe, width=7, textvariable=feet) 
feet_entry.grid(column=2, row=1, sticky=(W, E)) 
 
meters = StringVar() 
ttk.Label(mainframe, textvariable=meters).grid(column=2, 
row=2, sticky=(W, E)) 
 
ttk.Button(mainframe, text="Calculate", 
command=calculate).grid(column=3, row=3, sticky=W) 
 
ttk.Label(mainframe, text="feet").grid(column=3, row=1, 
sticky=W) 
ttk.Label(mainframe, text="is equivalent to").grid(column=1, 
row=2, sticky=E) 
ttk.Label(mainframe, text="meters").grid(column=3, row=2, 
sticky=W) 
 
for child in mainframe.winfo_children():  

--- Strana 37 ---
    child.grid_configure(padx=5, pady=5) 
 
feet_entry.focus() 
root.bind("<Return>", calculate) 
 
root.mainloop()
  https://tkdocs.com/code/f2m.py
And the resulting user interface:
Screenshot of our completed feet to meters user interface.
A Note on Coding Style
As you know, larger Python programs are almost always structured
into objects, classes, modules, etc. Because the focus of this book is
Tk and Tkinter, we'll keep things as simple as possible, generally
using a very direct and procedural coding style, rather than wrapping
up most of our code in functions or objects.

--- Strana 38 ---
4.3. Step-by-Step Walkthrough
Let's take a closer look at that code, piece by piece. For now, all
we're trying to do is get a basic understanding of the types of things
we need to do to create a user interface in Tk, and roughly what
those things look like. We'll go into details later.
Incorporating Tk
Our program starts by incorporating Tk.
from tkinter import * 
from tkinter import ttk
These two lines tell Python that our program needs two modules. The
first, tkinter, is the standard binding to Tk. When imported, it loads
the Tk library on your system. The second, ttk, is a submodule of
tkinter. It implements Python's binding to the newer "themed
widgets" that were added to Tk in 8.5.
Notice that we've imported everything (*) from the tkinter module. That
way, we can call tkinter functions etc. without prefixing them with the
module name. This is standard Tkinter practice.
However, because we've imported just ttk itself, we'll need to prefix anything
inside that submodule. For example, calling Entry(...) would refer to the Entry
class inside the tkinter module (classic widgets). We'd need ttk.Entry(...) to
use the Entry class inside ttk (themed widgets).
As you'll see, several classes are defined in both modules. Sometimes you will
need one or the other, depending on the context. Explicitly requiring the ttk
prefix facilitates this, and will be the style used in this book.
One of the first things you'll find if you're migrating Python 2.x code is
that the name of the Tkinter module is now lowercase, i.e. tkinter,
rather than Tkinter. In Python 2.x, Ttk was also its own module, not a
sub-module of Tkinter.

--- Strana 39 ---
Setting up the Main Application Window
Next, the following code sets up the main application window, giving it
the title "Feet to Meters."
root = Tk() 
root.title("Feet to Meters")
Yes, the calculate function appeared before this. We'll describe it down
below, but need to include it near the start because we reference it in
other parts of the program.
Creating a Content Frame
Next, we create a frame widget, which will hold the contents of our
user interface.
mainframe = ttk.Frame(root, padding="3 3 12 12") 
mainframe.grid(column=0, row=0, sticky=(N, W, E, S)) 
root.columnconfigure(0, weight=1) 
root.rowconfigure(0, weight=1)  
After the frame is created, grid places it directly inside our main
application window. The columnconfigure/rowconfigure bits tell Tk
that the frame should expand to fill any extra space if the window is
resized.
Why do we put a frame inside the main window? Strictly speaking, we
could just put the other widgets in our interface directly into the main
application window, without the intervening content frame. That's what
you'll see in older Tk programs.
However, the main window isn't itself part of the newer "themed" widgets. Its
background color doesn't match the themed widgets we will put inside it. Using
a "themed" frame widget to hold the content ensures that the background is
correct. This is illustrated below.

--- Strana 40 ---
Placing a themed frame inside a window.
On macOS, where this problem is most prominent, you can also set the
window's background color (via its background configuration option) to the
predefined color systemWindowHeaderBackground.
Creating the Entry Widget
The first widget we'll create is the entry where we can input the
number of feet that we want to convert.
feet = StringVar() 
feet_entry = ttk.Entry(mainframe, width=7, textvariable=feet) 
feet_entry.grid(column=2, row=1, sticky=(W, E))
We need to do two things: create the widget itself, and then place it
onscreen.
When we create a widget, we need to specify its parent, which is
the widget that this widget will be placed inside. In this case, we want
our entry placed inside the content frame. Our entry, and other
widgets we'll create shortly, are said to be children of the content
frame. The parent is always the first parameter passed when
instantiating a widget object.
When we create a widget, we can optionally provide it with certain
configuration options. Here, we specify how wide we want the entry to

--- Strana 41 ---
appear, i.e. 7 characters. We also assign it a mysterious
textvariable; we'll see what that does shortly.
When widgets are created, they don't automatically show up on the
screen, because Tk doesn't know how you want them to be placed
relative to other widgets. That's what the grid part does. Remember
the layout grid when we sketched out our application? Widgets are
placed in the appropriate column (1, 2, or 3), and row (also 1, 2, or 3).
The sticky option to grid describes how the widget should line up
within the grid cell, using compass directions. So W (west) means to
anchor the widget to the left side of the cell, (W, E) (west-east)
means to attach it to both the left and right sides, and so on.
Creating the Remaining Widgets
We then do exactly the same thing for the remaining widgets. We
have one label that will display the resulting number of meters that we
calculate. We have a "Calculate" button that is pressed to perform the
calculation. Finally, we have three static text labels to make it clear
how to use the application. For each of these widgets, we first create
it and then place it onscreen in the appropriate cell in the grid.
meters = StringVar() 
ttk.Label(mainframe, textvariable=meters).grid(column=2, 
row=2, sticky=(W, E)) 
 
ttk.Button(mainframe, text="Calculate", 
command=calculate).grid(column=3, row=3, sticky=W) 
 
ttk.Label(mainframe, text="feet").grid(column=3, row=1, 
sticky=W) 
ttk.Label(mainframe, text="is equivalent to").grid(column=1, 
row=2, sticky=E) 
ttk.Label(mainframe, text="meters").grid(column=3, row=2, 
sticky=W)
Adding Some Polish
We then put a few finishing touches on our user interface.
for child in mainframe.winfo_children():  
    child.grid_configure(padx=5, pady=5) 

--- Strana 42 ---
feet_entry.focus() 
root.bind("<Return>", calculate)
The first part walks through all of the widgets that are contained
within our content frame, and adds a little bit of padding around each,
so they aren't so scrunched together. (We could have added these
options to each grid call when we first put the widgets onscreen, but
this is a nice shortcut.)
The second part tells Tk to put the focus on our entry widget. That
way, the cursor will start in that field, so users don't have to click in it
before starting to type.
The third line tells Tk that if a user presses the Return key (Enter
on Windows) it should call our calculate routine, the same as if they
pressed the Calculate button.
Performing the Calculation
Speaking of which, here we define our calculate procedure. It's called
when a user presses the Calculate button or hits the Return key. It
performs the feet to meters calculation.
def calculate(*args): 
    try: 
        value = float(feet.get()) 
        meters.set(int(0.3048 * value * 10000.0 + 
0.5)/10000.0) 
    except ValueError: 
        pass
As you can clearly see, this routine takes the number of feet from our
entry widget, does the calculation, and places the result in our label
widget.
Say what? It doesn't look like we're doing anything with those
widgets! Here's where the magic textvariable options we specified
when creating the widgets come into play. We specified the global
variable feet as the textvariable for the entry, which means that
anytime the entry changes, Tk will automatically update the global
variable feet. Similarly, if we explicitly change the value of a
textvariable associated with a widget (as we're doing for meters which

--- Strana 43 ---
is attached to our label), the widget will automatically be updated with
the current contents of the variable. The only caveat is that these
variables must be an instance of the StringVar class. Slick.
The multiplying and dividing by 10000.0 is to avoid the rounding
problems inherent in floating-point math. A simple calculation, e.g.,
0.3048*1.5, could result in a number like 0.45720000000000005, which
would neither be correct or visually appealing when displayed. You could also
use Python's built-in round() function.
Start the Event Loop
Finally, we need to tell Tk to enter its event loop, which is necessary
for everything to appear onscreen and allow users to interact with it.
root.mainloop()

--- Strana 44 ---
4.4. What's Missing
We've now seen how to create widgets, put them onscreen, and
respond to users interacting with them. It's certainly not fancy, could
probably do with some error checking, but it's a fully-functional GUI
application.
It's also worth examing what we didn't have to include in our Tk
program to make it work. For example:
we didn't have to worry about redrawing the screen as things
changed
we didn't have to worry about parsing and dispatching events, hit
detection, or handling events on each widget
we didn't have to provide a lot of options when we created
widgets; the defaults seemed to take care of most things, and so
we only had to change things like the text the button displayed
we didn't have to write complex code to get and set the values of
simple widgets; we just attached them to variables
we didn't have to worry about what happens when users close
the window or resizes it
we didn't need to write extra code to get this all to work cross-
platform
One More Thing...
As this book emphasizes Tkinter, our examples use standalone script
code, global variables, and simple functions. In practice, you'll likely
organize anything beyond the simplest scripts in functions or classes.
There are different ways to do this: using modules, creating classes
for different parts of the user interface, inheriting from Tkinter classes,
etc.
Often though, you just want to do something simple to encapsulate
your data rather than putting everything into the global variable
space. Here is the feet to meters example, rewritten to encapsulate

--- Strana 45 ---
the main code into a class. Note the use of self on callbacks (which
execute at the global scope) and StringVar's.
from tkinter import * 
from tkinter import ttk 
 
class FeetToMeters: 
 
    def __init__(self, root): 
 
        root.title("Feet to Meters") 
 
        mainframe = ttk.Frame(root, padding="3 3 12 12") 
        mainframe.grid(column=0, row=0, sticky=(N, W, E, S)) 
        root.columnconfigure(0, weight=1) 
        root.rowconfigure(0, weight=1) 
        
        self.feet = StringVar() 
        feet_entry = ttk.Entry(mainframe, width=7, 
textvariable=self.feet) 
        feet_entry.grid(column=2, row=1, sticky=(W, E)) 
        self.meters = StringVar() 
 
        ttk.Label(mainframe, 
textvariable=self.meters).grid(column=2, row=2, sticky=(W, E)) 
        ttk.Button(mainframe, text="Calculate", 
command=self.calculate).grid(column=3, row=3, sticky=W) 
 
        ttk.Label(mainframe, text="feet").grid(column=3, 
row=1, sticky=W) 
        ttk.Label(mainframe, text="is equivalent 
to").grid(column=1, row=2, sticky=E) 
        ttk.Label(mainframe, text="meters").grid(column=3, 
row=2, sticky=W) 
 
        for child in mainframe.winfo_children():  
            child.grid_configure(padx=5, pady=5) 
 
        feet_entry.focus() 
        root.bind("<Return>", self.calculate) 
         
    def calculate(self, *args): 
        try: 
            value = float(self.feet.get()) 
            self.meters.set(int(0.3048 * value * 10000.0 + 
0.5)/10000.0) 
        except ValueError: 

--- Strana 46 ---
            pass 
 
root = Tk() 
FeetToMeters(root) 
root.mainloop()
  https://tkdocs.com/code/f2mo.py

--- Strana 47 ---
5. Tk Concepts
With your first example behind you, you now have a basic idea of
what a Tk program looks like and the type of code you need to write
to make it work. In this chapter, we'll step back and look at three
broad concepts that you need to know to understand Tk: widgets,
geometry management, and event handling.

--- Strana 48 ---
5.1. Widgets
Widgets are all the things that you see onscreen. In our example, we
had a button, an entry, a few labels, and a frame. Others are things
like checkboxes, tree views, scrollbars, text areas, and so on.
Widgets are often referred to as "controls." You'll also sometimes see
them referred to as "windows," particularly in Tk's documentation.
This is a holdover from its X11 roots (under that terminology, both
your toplevel application window and things like a button would be
called windows).
Here is an example showing some of Tk's widgets, which we'll
cover individually shortly.
Several Tk Widgets.
Widget Classes
Widgets are objects, instances of classes that represent buttons,
frames, and so on. When you want to create a widget, the first thing
you'll need to do is identify the specific class of the widget you'd like
to instantiate. This book will help with that.
Widget Hierarchy

--- Strana 49 ---
Besides the widget class, you'll need one other piece of information to
create it: its parent. Widgets don't float off in space. Instead, they're
contained within something else, like a window. In Tk, all widgets are
part of a widget (or window) hierarchy, with a single root at the top of
the hierarchy.
In our metric conversion example, we had a single frame that was
created as a child of the root window, and that frame had all the other
controls as children. The root window was a container for the frame
and was, therefore, the frame's parent. The complete hierarchy for
the example looked like this:
The widget hierarchy of the metric conversion example.
This hierarchy can be arbitrarily deep, so you might have a button in
a frame in another frame within the root window. Even a new window
in your application (often called a toplevel) is part of that same
hierarchy. That window and all its contents form a subtree of the
overall widget hierarchy.

--- Strana 50 ---
Hierarchy of a more substantial application. Leaf nodes (buttons, labels, etc.)
omitted.
Creating Widgets
Each separate widget is a Python object. When instantiating a widget,
you must pass its parent as a parameter to the widget class. The only
exception is the "root" window, which is the toplevel window that will
contain everything else. That is automatically created when you
instantiate Tk. It does not have a parent. For example:
root = Tk() 
content = ttk.Frame(root) 
button = ttk.Button(content)
Whether or not you save the widget object in a variable is entirely up
to you, depending on whether you'll need to refer to it later. Because
the object is inserted into the widget hierarchy, it won't be garbage
collected even if you don't keep your own reference to it.

--- Strana 51 ---
If you sneak a peek at how Tcl manages widgets, you'll see each widget
has a specific pathname; you'll also see this pathname referred to in Tk
reference documentation. Tkinter chooses and manages all these
pathnames for you behind the scenes, so you should never have to worry about
them. If you do, you can get the pathname from a widget by calling str(widget).
Configuration Options
All widgets have several configuration options. These control how the
widget is displayed or how it behaves.
The available options for a widget depend upon the widget class,
of course. There is a lot of consistency between different widget
classes, so options that do pretty much the same thing tend to be
named the same. For example, both a button and a label have a text
option to adjust the text that the widget displays, while a scrollbar
would not have a text option since it's not needed. Similarly, the
button has a command option telling it what to do when pushed, while a
label, which holds just static text, does not.
Configuration options can be set when the widget is first created by
specifying their names and values as optional parameters. Later, you
can retrieve the current values of those options, and with a very small
number of exceptions, change them at any time.
If you're not sure what configuration options a widget supports, you
can ask the widget to describe them. This gives you a long list of all
its options.
This is all best illustrated with the following interactive dialog with
the interpreter.
% python 
>>> from tkinter import * 
>>> from tkinter import ttk 
>>> root = Tk()
create a button, passing two options: 
>>> button = ttk.Button(root, text="Hello", 
command="buttonpressed") 
>>> button.grid()
check the current value of the text option: 
>>> button['text'] 
'Hello' 
change the value of the text option: 

--- Strana 52 ---
>>> button['text'] = 'goodbye'
another way to do the same thing: 
>>> button.configure(text='goodbye')
check the current value of the text option: 
>>> button['text'] 
'goodbye' 
get all information about the text option: 
>>> button.configure('text') 
('text', 'text', 'Text', '', 'goodbye') 
get information on all options for this widget: 
>>> button.configure() 
{'cursor': ('cursor', 'cursor', 'Cursor', '', ''), 'style': 
('style', 'style', 'Style', '', ''),  
'default': ('default', 'default', 'Default', <index object at 
0x00DFFD10>, <index object at 0x00DFFD10>),  
'text': ('text', 'text', 'Text', '', 'goodbye'), 'image': 
('image', 'image', 'Image', '', ''),  
'class': ('class', '', '', '', ''), 'padding': ('padding', 
'padding', 'Pad', '', ''),  
'width': ('width', 'width', 'Width', '', ''),  
'state': ('state', 'state', 'State', <index object at 
0x0167FA20>, <index object at 0x0167FA20>),  
'command': ('command', 'command' , 'Command', '', 
'buttonpressed'),  
'textvariable': ('textvariable', 'textVariable', 'Variable', 
'', ''),  
'compound': ('compound', 'compound', 'Compound', <index object 
at 0x0167FA08>, <index object at 0x0167FA08>),  
'underline': ('underline', 'underline', 'Underline', -1, -1),  
'takefocus': ('takefocus', 'takeFocus', 'TakeFocus', '', 
'ttk::takefocus')}
As you can see, for each option, Tk will show you the name of the
option and its current value (along with three other attributes which
you won't normally need to worry about).
Ok, if you really want to know, here are the details on the five pieces of
data provided for each configuration option. The most useful are the
first, which is the option's name, and the fifth, which is the option's
current value. The fourth is the default value of the option, or in other words, the
value it would have if you didn't change it. The other two relate to something
called the option database. We'll touch on it when we discuss menus, but it's not
something that's used in modern applications. The second item is the name of
the option in the database, and the third is its class.

--- Strana 53 ---
Widget Introspection
Tk exposes a treasure trove of information about each and every
widget that your application can take advantage of. Much of it is
available via the winfo facility; see the see the winfo command
reference for full details.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/winfo
This short example traverses the widget hierarchy, using each
widget's winfo_children method to identify any child widgets that
need to examined. For each widget, we print some basic information,
including it's class (button, frame, etc.), it's width and height, and it's
position relative to it's parent.
def print_hierarchy(w, depth=0): 
    print('  '*depth + w.winfo_class() + ' w=' + 
str(w.winfo_width()) + ' h=' + str(w.winfo_height()) + ' x=' + 
str(w.winfo_x()) + ' y=' + str(w.winfo_y())) 
    for i in w.winfo_children(): 
        print_hierarchy(i, depth+1) 
print_hierarchy(root)
The following are some of the most useful methods:
winfo_class:
a class identifying the type of widget, e.g. TButton for a themed
button
winfo_children:
a list of widgets that are the direct children of a widget in the
hierarchy
winfo_parent:
parent of the widget in the hierarchy
winfo_toplevel:
the toplevel window containing this widget
winfo_width, winfo_height:
current width and height of the widget; not accurate until appears
onscreen
winfo_reqwidth, winfo_reqheight:
the width and height the widget requests of the geometry
manager (more on this shortly)
winfo_x, winfo_y:

--- Strana 54 ---
the position of the top-left corner of the widget relative to its
parent
winfo_rootx, winfo_rooty:
the position of the top-left corner of the widget relative to the
entire screen
winfo_vieweable:
whether the widget is displayed or hidden (all its ancestors in the
hierarchy must be viewable for it to be viewable)

--- Strana 55 ---
5.2. Geometry Management
If you've been running code interactively, you've probably that just by
creating widgets, they didn't appear onscreen. Placing widgets
onscreen, and precisely where they are placed, is a separate step
called geometry management.
In our example, positioning each widget was accomplished by the
grid command. We specified the column and row we wanted each
widget to go in, how things were to be aligned within the grid, etc.
Grid is an example of a geometry manager (of which there are
several in Tk, grid being the most useful). For now, we'll look at
geometry management in general; we'll talk about grid in a later
chapter.
A geometry manager's job is to figure out exactly where those
widgets are going to be put. This turns out to be a complex
optimization problem, and a good geometry manager relies on quite
sophisticated algorithms. A good geometry manager provides the
flexibility, power, and ease of use that makes programmers happy. It
also makes it easy to create good looking user interface layouts
without needing to jump through hoops. Tk's grid is, without a doubt,
one of the absolute best. A poor geometry manager... well, all the
Java programmers who have suffered through "GridBagLayout"
please raise their hands.
We'll go into more detail in a later chapter, but grid was introduced
several years after Tk became popular. Before that, an older geometry
manager named pack was most commonly used. It's very powerful, but
is much harder to use, and makes it extremely difficult to create layouts that
look appealing today. Unfortunately, much of the example Tk code and
documentation out there uses pack instead of grid (a good clue to how current it
is). The widespread use of pack is one major reason that so many Tk user
interfaces look terrible. Start new code with grid, and upgrade old code when
you can.
The Problem

--- Strana 56 ---
The problem for a geometry manager is to take all the different
widgets the program creates, plus the program's instructions for
where in the window each should go (explicitly, or more often, relative
to other widgets), and then actually position them in the window.
In doing so, the geometry manager has to balance multiple
constraints. Consider these situations:
The widgets may have a natural size, e.g., the natural width of a
label would depend on the text it displays and the font used to
display it. What if the application window containing all these
different widgets isn't big enough to accommodate them? The
geometry manager must decide which widgets to shrink to fit, by
how much, etc.
If the application window is bigger than the natural size of all the
widgets, how is the extra space used? Is extra space placed
between each widget, and if so, how is that space distributed? Is
it used to make certain widgets larger than they normally want to
be, such as a text entry growing to fill a wider window? Which
widgets should grow?
If the application window is resized, how does the size and
position of each widgets inside it change? Will certain areas
(e.g., a text entry area) expand or shrink while other parts stay
the same size, or is the area distributed differently? Do certain
widgets have a minimum size that you want to avoid going
below? A maximum size? Does the window itself have a
minimum or maximum size?
How can widgets in different parts of the user interface be
aligned with each other? How much space should be left
between them? This is needed to present a clean layout and
comply with platform-specific user interface guidelines.
For a complex user interface, which may have many frames
nested in other frames nested in the window (etc.), how can all
the above be accomplished, trading off the conflicting demands
of different parts of the entire user interface?
How it Works

--- Strana 57 ---
Geometry management in Tk relies on the concept of master and
slave widgets. A master is a widget, typically a toplevel application
window or a frame, which contains other widgets, called slaves. You
can think of a geometry manager taking control of the master widget
and deciding how all the slave widgets will be displayed within.
The computing community has embraced the more general societal
trend towards more diversity, sensitivity, and awareness about the
impacts of language. Recognizing this, the Tk core will slowly be
adopting a more inclusive set of terminology. For example, where it makes
sense, "parent" and "child" will be preferred over "master" and "slave." To
preserve backward compatibility, the current terminology will not be
disappearing. This is something to be aware of for the future. For more details,
see TIP #581 (https://tip.tcl.tk/581).
Your program tells the geometry manager what slaves to manage
within the master, i.e., via calling grid. Your program also provides
hints as to how it would like each slave to be displayed, e.g., via the
column and row options. You can also provide other things to the
geometry manager. For example, we used columnconfigure and
rowconfigure to indicate the columns and rows we'd like to expand if
there is extra space available in the window. It's worth noting that all
these parameters and hints are specific to grid; other geometry
managers would use different ones.
The geometry manager takes all the information about the slaves
in the master, as well as information about how large the master is. It
then asks each slave widget for its natural size, i.e., how large it
would ideally like to be displayed. The geometry manager's internal
algorithm calculates the area each slave will be allocated (if any!).
The slave is then responsible for rendering itself within that particular
rectangle. And of course, any time the size of the master changes
(e.g., because the toplevel window was resized), the natural size of a
slave changes (e.g., because we've changed the text in a label), or
any of the geometry manager parameters change (e.g., like row,
column, or sticky) we repeat the whole thing.
This all works recursively as well. In our example, we had a
content frame inside the toplevel application window, and then
several other widgets inside the content frame. We, therefore, had to
manage the geometry for two different masters. At the outer level, the

--- Strana 58 ---
toplevel window was the master, and the content frame was its slave.
At the inner level, the content frame was the master, with each of the
other widgets being slaves. Notice that the same widget, e.g., the
content frame, can be both a master and a slave! As we saw
previously, this widget hierarchy can be nested much more deeply.
While each master can be managed by only one geometry manager
(e.g. grid), different masters can have different geometry managers.
While grid is the right choice most of the time, others may make sense
for a particular layout used in one part of your user interface. Other Tk geometry
managers include pack, which we've mentioned, and place, which leaves all
layout decisions entirely up to you. Some complex widgets like canvas and text
let you embed other widgets, making them de facto geometry managers.
Finally, we've been making the assumption that slave widgets are the
immediate children of their master in the widget hierarchy. While this is usually
the case, and mostly there's no good reason to do it any other way, it's also
possible (with some restrictions) to get around this.

--- Strana 59 ---
5.3. Event Handling
Tk, as with most other user interface toolkits, runs an event loop that
receives events from the operating system. These are things like
button presses, keystrokes, mouse movement, window resizing, and
so on.
Generally, Tk takes care of managing this event loop for you. It will
figure out what widget the event applies to (did a user click on this
button? if a key was pressed, which textbox had the focus?), and
dispatch it accordingly. Individual widgets know how to respond to
events; for example, a button might change color when the mouse
moves over it, and revert back when the mouse leaves.
It's critical in event-driven applications that the event loop not be
blocked. The event loop should run continuously, normally executing
dozens of steps per second. At every step, it processes an event. If
your program is performing a long operation, it can potentially block the event
loop. In that case, no events would be processed, no drawing would be done,
and it would appear as if your application is frozen. There are many ways to
avoid this happening, mostly related to the structure of your application. We'll
discuss this in more detail in a later chapter.
Command Callbacks
You often want your program to handle some event in a particular
way, e.g., do something when a button is pushed. For those events
that are most frequently customized (what good is a button without
something happening when you press it?), the widget will allow you to
specify a callback as a widget configuration option. We saw this in the
example with the command option of the button.
def calculate(*args): 
    ... 
 
ttk.Button(mainframe, text="Calculate", command=calculate)

--- Strana 60 ---
Callbacks in Tk tend to be simpler than in user interface toolkits used
with compiled languages (where a callback must be a procedure with
a certain set of parameters or an object method with a certain
signature). Instead, the callback is just an ordinary bit of code that the
interpreter evaluates. While it can be as complicated as you want to
make it, most of the time, you'll just want your callback to call some
other procedure.
Binding to Events
For events that don't have a widget-specific command callback
associated with them, you can use Tk's bind to capture any event,
and then (like with callbacks) execute an arbitrary piece of code.
Here's a (silly) example showing a label responding to different
events. When an event occurs, a description of the event is displayed
in the label.
from tkinter import * 
from tkinter import ttk 
root = Tk() 
l =ttk.Label(root, text="Starting...") 
l.grid() 
l.bind('<Enter>', lambda e: l.configure(text='Moved mouse 
inside')) 
l.bind('<Leave>', lambda e: l.configure(text='Moved mouse 
outside')) 
l.bind('<ButtonPress-1>', lambda e: l.configure(text='Clicked 
left mouse button')) 
l.bind('<3>', lambda e: l.configure(text='Clicked right mouse 
button')) 
l.bind('<Double-1>', lambda e: l.configure(text='Double 
clicked')) 
l.bind('<B3-Motion>', lambda e: l.configure(text='right button 
drag to %d,%d' % (e.x, e.y))) 
root.mainloop()
  https://tkdocs.com/code/bindings.py
The first two bindings are pretty straightforward, just watching for
simple events. An <Enter> event means the mouse has moved over
top the widget, while the <Leave> event is generated when the mouse
moves outside the widget to a different one.

--- Strana 61 ---
The next binding looks for a mouse click, specifically a
<ButtonPress-1> event. Here, the <ButtonPress> is the actual event,
but the -1 is an event detail specifying the left (main) mouse button
on the mouse. The binding will only trigger when a <ButtonPress>
event is generated involving the main mouse button. If another
mouse button was clicked, this binding would ignore it.
This next binding looks for a <3> event. This is actually a shorthand
for <ButtonPress-3>. It will respond to events generated when the
right mouse button is clicked. The next binding, <Double-1>
(shorthand for 
<Double-ButtonPress-1>) adds another modifier,
Double, and so will respond to the left mouse button being double
clicked.
The last binding also uses a modifier: capture mouse movement
(Motion), but only when the right mouse button (B3) is held down. This
binding also shows an example of how to use event parameters.
Many events, such as mouse clicks or movement carry additional
information like the current position of the mouse. Tk provides access
to these parameters in Tcl callback scripts through the use of percent
substitutions. These percent substitutions let you capture them so
they can be used in your script.
Tkinter abstracts away these percent substitutions and instead
encapsulates all the event parameters in an event object. Above, we
used the x and y fields to retrieve the mouse position. We'll see
percent substitutions used later in another context, entry widget
validation.
What's with the lambda expressions? Tkinter expects you to provide a
function as the event callback, whose first argument is an event object
representing the event that triggered the callback. It's sometimes not
worth the bother of defining regular named functions for one-off trivial callbacks
such as in this example. Instead, we've just used Python's anonymous functions
via lambda. In real applications, you'll almost always use a regular function, such
as the calculate function in our feet to meters example, or a method of an
object.
Multiple Bindings for an Event

--- Strana 62 ---
We've just seen how event bindings can be set up for an individual
widget. When a matching event is received by that widget, the
binding will trigger. But that's not all you can do.
Your binding can capture not just a single event, but a short
sequence of events. The <Double-1> binding triggers when two
mouse clicks occur in a short time. You can do the same thing to
capture two keys pressed in a row, e.g., <KeyPress-A><KeyPress-B> or
simply <ab>.
You can also set up an event binding on a toplevel window. When
a matching event occurs anywhere in that window, the binding will be
triggered. In our example, we set up a binding for the Return key on
the main application toplevel window. If the Return key was pressed
when any widget in the toplevel window had the focus, that binding
would fire.
Less commonly, you can create event bindings that are triggered
when a matching event occurs anywhere in the application, or even
for events received by any widget of a given class, e.g., all buttons.
More than one binding can fire for an event. This keeps event handlers
concise and limited in scope, meaning more modular code. For
example, the behavior of each widget class in Tk is itself defined with
script-level event bindings. These stay separate from event bindings in your
application. Event bindings can also be changed or deleted. They can be
modified to alter event handling for widgets of a certain class or parts of your
application. You can reorder, extend, or change the sequence of event bindings
that will be triggered for each widget; see the bindtags command reference if
you're curious.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/bindtags
Available Events
The most commonly used events are described below, along with the
circumstances when they are generated. Some are generated on
some platforms and not others. For a complete description of all the
different event names, modifiers, and the different event parameters
that are available with each, the best place to look is the bind
command reference.

--- Strana 63 ---
  https://tkdocs.com/man/bind
<Activate>:
Window has become active.
<Deactivate>:
Window has been deactivated.
<MouseWheel>:
Scroll wheel on mouse has been moved.
<KeyPress>:
Key on keyboard has been pressed down.
<KeyRelease>:
Key has been released.
<ButtonPress>:
A mouse button has been pressed.
<ButtonRelease>:
A mouse button has been released.
<Motion>:
Mouse has been moved.
<Configure>:
Widget has changed size or position.
<Destroy>:
Widget is being destroyed.
<FocusIn>:
Widget has been given keyboard focus.
<FocusOut>:
Widget has lost keyboard focus.
<Enter>:
Mouse pointer enters widget.
<Leave>:
Mouse pointer leaves widget.
Event detail for mouse events are the button that was pressed, e.g. 1,
2, or 3. For keyboard events, it's the specific key, e.g. A, 9, space, plus,
comma, equal. A complete list can be found in the keysyms command
reference.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/keysyms
Event modifiers for include, e.g. B1 or Button1 to signify the main
mouse button being held down, Double or Triple for sequences of the

--- Strana 64 ---
same event. Key modifiers for when keys on the keyboard are held
down inline Control, Shift, Alt, Option, and Command.
Virtual Events
The events we've seen so far are low-level operating system events
like mouse clicks and window resizes. Many widgets also generate
higher level or semantic events called virtual events. These are
indicated by double angle brackets around the event name, e.g.,
<<foo>>.
For example, a listbox widget will generate a <<ListboxSelect>>
virtual event whenever its selection changes. The same virtual event
is generated whether a user clicked on an item, moved to it using the
arrow keys, or some other way. Virtual events avoid the problem of
setting up multiple, possibly platform-specific event bindings to
capture common changes. The available virtual events for a widget
will be listed in the documentation for the widget class.
Tk also defines virtual events for common operations that are
triggered in different ways for different platforms. These include
<<Cut>>, <<Copy>> and <<Paste>>.
You can define your own virtual events, which can be specific to
your application. This can be a useful way to keep platform-specific
details isolated in a single module, while you use the virtual event
throughout your application. Your own code can generate virtual
events that work in exactly the same way that virtual events
generated by Tk do.
root.event_generate("<<MyOwnEvent>>")

--- Strana 65 ---
6. Basic Widgets
This chapter introduces the basic Tk widgets that you'll find in just
about any user interface: frames, labels, buttons, checkbuttons,
radiobuttons, entries, and comboboxes. By the end, you'll know how
to use all the widgets you'd ever need for a typical fill-in-the-form
type of user interface.
You'll find it easiest to read this chapter (and those following that
discuss more widgets) in order. Because there is so much
commonality between many widgets, we'll introduce certain concepts
when describing one widget that will also apply to a widget we
describe later. Rather than going over the same ground multiple
times, we'll refer back to when the concept was first introduced.
At each widget is introduced, we'll note the Tkinter class used to
create the widget and its Tk reference manual page. Even though
this reference documentation refers to the Tcl interface to Tk, it is the
most accurate and complete description of each Tk widget. The
internals of Python's Tkinter module directly rely on this Tcl interface.
As a reminder, this book highlights the most useful parts of Tk and
how to use them to build effective modern user interfaces. The
reference documentation, which details everything that can be done
in Tk, serves a very different purpose.

--- Strana 66 ---
6.1. Frame
  ttk.Frame
  https://tkdocs.com/man/ttk_frame
A frame is a widget that displays as a simple rectangle. Frames help
to organize your user interface, often both visually and at the coding
level. Frames often act as master widgets for a geometry manager
like grid, which manages the slave widgets contained within the
frame.
Frame widgets.
Frames are created using the ttk.Frame class:
frame = ttk.Frame(parent)
Frames can take several different configuration options, which can
alter how they are displayed.
Requested Size
Typically, the size of a frame is determined by the size and layout of
any widgets within it In turn, this is controlled by the geometry
manager that manages the contents of the frame itself).

--- Strana 67 ---
If, for some reason, you want an empty frame that does not
contain other widgets, you can instead explicitly set its size using the
width and/or height configuration options (otherwise, you'll end up
with a very small frame indeed).
Screen distances such as width and height are usually specified
as a number of pixels screen. You can also specify them via one of
several suffixes. For example, 350 means 350 pixels, 350c means
350 centimeters, 350m means 350 millimeters, 350i means 350
inches, and 350p means 350 printer's points (1/72 inch).
Remember, if you request that a frame (or any widget) to have a given
size, the geometry manager has the final say. If things aren't showing
up the way you want them, make sure to check there too.
Padding
The padding configuration option is used to request extra space
around the inside of the widget. If you're putting other widgets inside
the frame, there will be a bit of a margin all the way around. You can
specify the same padding for all sides, different horizontal and
vertical padding, or padding for each side separately.
f['padding'] = 5           # 5 pixels on all sides 
f['padding'] = (5,10)      # 5 on left and right, 10 on top 
and bottom 
f['padding'] = (5,7,10,12) # left: 5, top: 7, right: 10, 
bottom: 12
Borders
You can display a border around a frame widget to visually separate
it from its surroundings. You'll see this often used to make a part of
the user interface look sunken or raised. To do this, you need to set
the borderwidth configuration option (which defaults to 0, i.e., no
border), and the 
relief option, which specifies the visual
appearance of the border. This can be one of: flat (default), raised,
sunken, solid, ridge, or groove.

--- Strana 68 ---
frame['borderwidth'] = 2 
frame['relief'] = 'sunken'
Changing Styles
Frames have a style configuration option, which is common to all of
the themed widgets. This lets you control many other aspects of their
appearance or behavior. This is a bit more advanced, so we won't go
into it in too much detail right now. But here's a quick example of
creating a "Danger" frame with a red background and a raised
border.
s = ttk.Style() 
s.configure('Danger.TFrame', background='red', borderwidth=5, 
relief='raised') 
ttk.Frame(root, width=200, height=200, 
style='Danger.TFrame').grid()
What elements of widgets can be changed by styles vary by widget
and platform. On Windows and Linux, it does what you'd expect. On
current macOS, the frame will have a red raised border, but the
background will remain the default grey. Much more on why this is in a later
chapter.
Styles mark a sharp departure from how most aspects of a widget's
visual appearance were changed in the "classic" Tk widgets. In classic
Tk, you could provide a wide range of options to finely control every
aspect of an individual widget's behavior, e.g., foreground color, background
color, font, highlight thickness, selected foreground color, and padding. When
using the new themed widgets, these changes are made by modifying styles,
not adding options to each widget.
As such, many options you may be familiar with in certain classic widgets are
not present in their themed version. However, overuse of such options was a
key factor undermining the appearance of Tk applications, especially when
used across different platforms. Transitioning from classic to themed widgets
provides an opportune time to review and refine how (and if!) such appearance
changes are made.

--- Strana 69 ---
6.2. Label
  ttk.Label
  https://tkdocs.com/man/ttk_label
A label is a widget that displays text or images, typically that users
will just view but not otherwise interact with. Labels are used for to
identify controls or other parts of the user interface, provide textual
feedback or results, etc.
Label widgets.
Labels are created using the ttk.Label class. Often, the text or
image the label will display are specified via configuration options at
the same time:
label = ttk.Label(parent, text='Full name:')
Like frames, labels can take several different configuration options,
which can alter how they are displayed.
Displaying Text
The text configuration option (shown above when creating the label)
is the most commonly used, particularly when the label is purely
decorative or explanatory. You can change what text is displayed by
modifying this configuration option. This can be done at any time, not
only when first creating the label.

--- Strana 70 ---
You can also have the widget monitor a variable in your script.
Anytime the variable changes, the label will display the new value of
the variable. This is done with the textvariable option:
resultsContents = StringVar() 
label['textvariable'] = resultsContents 
resultsContents.set('New value to display')
Tkinter only allows you to attach widgets to an instance of the
StringVar class, and not arbitrary Python variables. This class
contains all the logic to watch for changes and communicate them
back and forth between the variable and Tk. Use the get and set
methods to read or write the current value of the variable.
Displaying Images
Labels can also display an image instead of text. If you just want an
image displayed in your user interface, this is normally the way to do
it. We'll go into images in more detail in a later chapter, but for now,
let's assume you want to display a GIF stored in a file on disk. This is
a two-step process. First, you will create an image "object." Then,
you can tell the label to use that object via its image configuration
option:
image = PhotoImage(file='myimage.gif') 
label['image'] = image
Labels can also display both an image and text at the same time.
You'll often see this in toolbar buttons. To do so, use the compound
configuration option. The default value is none, meaning display only
the image if present; if there is no image, display the text specified
by the text or textvariable options. Other possible values for the
compound option are: text (text only), image (image only), center (text
in the center of image), top (image above text), left, bottom, and
right.
Fonts, Colors, and More

--- Strana 71 ---
Like with frames, you normally don't want to change things like fonts
and colors directly. If you need to change them (e.g., to create a
special type of label), the preferred method would be to create a new
style, which is then used by the widget with the style option.
Unlike most themed widgets, the label widget also provides
explicit widget-specific configuration options as an alternative. Again,
you should use these only in special one-off cases when using a
style didn't necessarily make sense.
You can specify the font used to display the label's text using the
font configuration option. While we'll go into fonts in more detail in a
later chapter, here are the names of some predefined fonts you can
use:
TkDefaultFont:
Default for all GUI items not otherwise specified.
TkTextFont:
Used for entry widgets, listboxes, etc.
TkFixedFont:
A standard fixed-width font.
TkMenuFont:
The font used for menu items.
TkHeadingFont:
A font for column headings in lists and tables.
TkCaptionFont:
A font for window and dialog caption bars.
TkSmallCaptionFont:
Smaller captions for subwindows or tool dialogs.
TkIconFont:
A font for icon captions.
TkTooltipFont:
A font for tooltips.
Because font choices are so platform-specific, be careful of hardcoding
specifics (font families, sizes, etc.). This is something else you'll see in
many older Tk programs that can make them look ugly.
label['font'] = "TkDefaultFont"

--- Strana 72 ---
The foreground (text) and background color of the label can also be
changed via the foreground and background configuration options.
Colors are covered in detail later, but you can specify them as either
color names (e.g., red) or hex RGB codes (e.g., #ff340a).
Labels also accept the relief configuration option discussed for
frames to make them appear sunken or raised.
Layout
While the overall layout of the label (i.e., where it is positioned within
the user interface, and how large it is) is determined by the geometry
manager, several options can help you control how the label will be
displayed within the rectangle the geometry manager gives it.
If the box given to the label is larger than the label requires for its
contents, you can use the anchor option to specify what edge or
corner the label should be attached to, which would leave any empty
space in the opposite edge or corner. Possible values are specified
as compass directions: n (north, or top edge), ne, (north-east, or top
right corner), e, se, s, sw, w, nw or center.
Things not appearing where you think they should? It may be that the
geometry manager is not putting the label where you think it is. For
example, if you're using grid, you may need to adjust the sticky
options. When debugging, it can help to change the background color of each
widget, so you know exactly where each is positioned. This is a good example
of those "one-off" cases we just mentioned where you might use configuration
options rather than styles to modify appearance.
Multi-line Labels
Labels can display more than one line of text. To do so, embed
carriage returns (\n) in the text (or textvariable) string. Labels can
also automatically wrap your text into multiple lines via the
wraplength option, which specifies the maximum length of a line (in
pixels, centimeters, etc.).
Multi-line labels are a replacement for the older message widgets in classic Tk.

--- Strana 73 ---
You can also control how the text is justified via the justify
option. It can have the values left, center, or right. If you
have only a single line of text, you probably want the anchor option
instead.

--- Strana 74 ---
6.3. Button
  ttk.Button
  https://tkdocs.com/man/ttk_button
A button, unlike a frame or label, is very much there to interact with.
Users press a button to perform an action. Like labels, they can
display text or images, but accept additional options to change their
behavior.
Button widgets.
Buttons are created using the ttk.Button class:
button = ttk.Button(parent, text='Okay', command=submitForm)
Typically, their contents and command callback are specified at the
same time. As with other widgets, buttons can take several different
configuration options, including the standard style option, which can
alter their appearance and behavior.
Text or Image
Buttons take the same text, textvariable (rarely used), image, and
compound configuration options as labels. These control whether the
button displays text and/or an image.

--- Strana 75 ---
Buttons have a default configuration option. If specified as
active, this tells Tk that the button is the default button in the user
interface; otherwise it is normal. Default buttons are invoked if users
hit the Return or Enter key). Some platforms and styles will draw this
default button with a different border or highlight. Note that setting
this option doesn't create an event binding that will make the Return
or Enter key activate the button; that you have to do yourself.
The Command Callback
The command option connects the button's action and your application.
When a user presses the button, the script provided by the option is
evaluated by the interpreter.
You can also ask the button to invoke the command callback from
your application. That way, you don't need to repeat the command to
be invoked several times in your program. If you change the
command attached to the button, you don't need to change it
elsewhere too. Sounds like a useful way to add that event binding on
our default button, doesn't it?
action = ttk.Button(root, text="Action", default="active", 
command=myaction) 
root.bind('<Return>', lambda e: action.invoke())
Standard behavior for dialog boxes and many other windows on most
platforms is to set up a binding on the window for the Return key
(<Return> or <Key-Return>) to invoke the active button if it exists, as
we've done here. If there is a "Close" or "Cancel" button, create a binding to
the Escape key (<Key-Escape>). On macOS, you should additionally bind the
Enter key on the keyboard (<KP_Enter>) to the active button, and Command-
period (<Command-.>) to the close or cancel button.
Button State
Buttons and many other widgets start off in a normal state. A button
will respond to mouse movements, can be pressed, and will invoke
its command callback. Buttons can also be put into a disabled state,

--- Strana 76 ---
where the button is greyed out, does not respond to mouse
movements, and cannot be pressed. Your program would disable the
button when its command is not applicable at a given point in time.
All themed widgets maintain an internal state, represented as a
series of binary flags. Each flag can either be set (on) or cleared
(off). You can set or clear these different flags, and check the current
setting using the state and instate methods. Buttons make use of
the disabled flag to control whether or not users can press the
button. For example:
b.state(['disabled'])          # set the disabled flag 
b.state(['!disabled'])         # clear the disabled flag 
b.instate(['disabled'])        # true if disabled, else false 
b.instate(['!disabled'])       # true if not disabled, else 
false 
b.instate(['!disabled'], cmd)  # execute 'cmd' if not 
disabled
Note that these commands accept an array of state flags as their
argument.
The full list of state flags available to themed widgets is: active,
disabled, focus, pressed, selected, background, readonly, alternate,
and invalid. These are described in the themed widget reference.
While all widgets have the same set of state flags, not all states are
meaningful for all widgets. It's also possible to get fancy in the state
and instate methods and specify multiple state flags at the same
time.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/ttk_widget
The state and instate methods replace the older state configuration
option (which took the values normal or disabled).
That configuration option is actually still available for themed widgets in Tk 8.5,
but "write-only," which means that changing the option calls the appropriate
state command. It's mainly intended as a convenience so you can specify a
widget should be disabled when you first create it. However, any changes
made using the new state command do not update the configuration option. To

--- Strana 77 ---
avoid confusion, you should update your code to use the new state flags for all
themed widgets.

--- Strana 78 ---
6.4. Checkbutton
  ttk.Checkbutton
  https://tkdocs.com/man/ttk_checkbutton
A checkbutton widget is like a regular button that also holds a
binary value of some kind (i.e., a toggle). When pressed, a
checkbutton flips the toggle and then invokes its callback.
Checkbutton widgets are frequently used to allow users to turn an
option on or off.
Checkbutton widgets.
Checkbuttons are created using the ttk.Checkbutton class. Typically,
their contents and behavior are specified at the same time:
measureSystem = StringVar() 
check = ttk.Checkbutton(parent, text='Use Metric',  
        command=metricChanged, variable=measureSystem, 
        onvalue='metric', offvalue='imperial')
Checkbuttons use many of the same options as regular buttons but
add a few more. The text, textvariable, image, and compound
configuration options control the display of the label (next to the
checkbox itself). Similarly, the command option lets you specify a
command to be called every time a user toggles the checkbutton;
and the invoke method will also execute the same command. The

--- Strana 79 ---
state and instate methods allow you to manipulate the disabled
state flag to enable or disable the checkbutton.
Widget Value
Unlike regular buttons, checkbuttons also hold a value. We've seen
before how the textvariable option can link the label of a widget to a
variable in your program. The variable option for checkbuttons
behaves similarly, except it links a variable to current value of the
widget. The variable is updated whenever the widget is toggled. By
default, checkbuttons use a value of 1 when the widget is checked,
and 0 when not checked. These can be changed to something else
using the onvalue and offvalue options.
A checkbutton doesn't automatically set (or create) the linked
variable. Therefore, your program needs to initialize it to the
appropriate starting value.
What happens when the linked variable contains neither the
onvalue or the offvalue (or even doesn't exist)? In that case, the
checkbutton is put into a special "tristate" or indeterminate mode.
When in this mode, the checkbox might display a single dash,
instead of being empty or holding a checkmark. Internally, the state
flag alternate is set, which you can inspect via the instate method:
check.instate(['alternate'])
While we've been using an instance of the StringVar class, Tkinter
provides other variable classes that can hold booleans, integers, or
floating-point numbers. You can always use a StringVar (because
the Tcl API that Tkinter uses is string-based) but can choose one of
the others if the data that will be stored in it fits the type. All are
subclasses of the base class Variable.
We saw in the feet to meters example that you can call the get
method of a Variable to retrieve its value or the set method to
provide a new value. You can also supply an initial value when you
instantiate it.

--- Strana 80 ---
s = StringVar(value="abc")   # default value is '' 
b = BooleanVar(value=True)   # default is False 
i = IntVar(value=10)         # default is 0 
d = DoubleVar(value=10.5)    # default is 0.0

--- Strana 81 ---
6.5. Radiobutton
  ttk.Radiobutton
  https://tkdocs.com/man/ttk_radiobutton
A radiobutton widget lets you choose between one of several
mutually exclusive choices. Unlike a checkbutton, they are not
limited to just two options. Radiobuttons are always used together in
a set, where multiple radiobutton widgets are tied to a single choice
or preference. They are appropriate to use when the number of
options is relatively small, e.g., 3-5.
Radiobutton widgets.
Radiobuttons are created using the ttk.Radiobutton class. Typically,
you'll create and initialize several of them at once:
phone = StringVar() 
home = ttk.Radiobutton(parent, text='Home', variable=phone, 
value='home') 
office = ttk.Radiobutton(parent, text='Office', 
variable=phone, value='office') 
cell = ttk.Radiobutton(parent, text='Mobile', variable=phone, 
value='cell')
Radiobuttons share most of the same configuration options as
checkbuttons. One exception is that the onvalue and offvalue
options are replaced with a single value option. Each radiobutton in
the set will have the same linked variable, but a different value.

--- Strana 82 ---
When the variable holds the matching value, that radiobutton will
visually indicate it is selected. If it doesn't match, the radiobutton will
be unselected. If the linked variable doesn't exist, or you don't
specify one with the variable option, radiobuttons also display as
"tristate" or indeterminate. This can be checked via the alternate
state flag.

--- Strana 83 ---
6.6. Entry
  ttk.Entry
  https://tkdocs.com/man/ttk_entry
An entry widget presents users with a single line text field where
they can type in a string value. These can be just about anything: a
name, a city, a password, social security number, etc.
Entry widgets.
Entries are created using the ttk.Entry class:
username = StringVar() 
name = ttk.Entry(parent, textvariable=username)
A width configuration option may be specified to provide the number
of characters wide the entry should be. This allows you, for example,
to display a shorter entry for a zip or postal code.
Entry Contents
We've seen how checkbutton and radiobutton widgets have a value
associated with them. Entries do as well, and that value is usually
accessed through a linked variable specified by the textvariable
configuration option.

--- Strana 84 ---
Unlike the various buttons, entries don't have a text or image beside
them to identify them. Use a separate label widget for that.
You can also get or change the value of the entry widget
without going through the linked variable. The get method returns
the current value, and the delete and insert methods let you change
the contents, e.g.
print('current value is %s' % name.get()) 
name.delete(0,'end')          # delete between two indices, 
0-based 
name.insert(0, 'your name')   # insert new text at a given 
index
Watching for Changes
Entry widgets don't have a command option to invoke a callback
whenever the entry is changed. To watch for changes, you should
watch for changes to the linked variable. See also "Validation",
below.
def it_has_been_written(*args): 
    ... 
username.trace_add("write", it_has_been_written)
You'll be fine if you stick with simple uses of trace_add like that
shown above. You might want to know that this is a small part of a
much more complex system for observing variables and invoking
callbacks when they are read, written, or deleted. You can trigger
multiple callbacks, add or delete them (trace_remove), and introspect
them (trace_info).
These methods also replace a now-deprecated set of older methods (trace,
trace_variable, trace_vdelete, and trace_vinfo) that should not be used.
Tkinter allows you to watch for changes on a StringVar (or
any subclass of Variable). Both the older and newer tracing tools are

--- Strana 85 ---
a very thin (and not terribly Pythonic) front end to Tcl's trace
command.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/trace
Passwords
Entries can be used for passwords, where the actual contents are
displayed as a bullet or other symbol. To do this, set the show
configuration option to the character you'd like to display.
passwd = ttk.Entry(parent, textvariable=password, show="*")
Widget States
Like the various buttons, entries can also be put into a disabled state
via the state command (and queried with instate). Entries can also
use the state flag readonly; if set, users cannot change the entry,
though they can still select the text in it (and copy it to the clipboard).
There is also an invalid state, set if the entry widget fails validation,
which leads us to...
Validation
Users can type any text they like into an entry widget. However, if
you'd like to restrict what they can type into the entry, you can do so
with validation. For example, an entry might only accept an integer or
a valid zip or postal code.
Your program can specify what makes an entry valid or invalid, as
well as when to check its validity. As we'll see soon, the two are
related. We'll start with a simple example, an entry that can only hold
an integer up to five digits long.
The validation criteria is specified via an entry's validatecommand
configuration option. You supply a piece of code whose job is to
validate the entry. It functions like a widget callback or event binding,
except that it returns a value (whether or not the entry is valid). We'll

--- Strana 86 ---
arrange to validate the entry on any keystroke, which is specified by
providing a value of key to the validate configuration option.
import re 
def check_num(newval): 
    return re.match('^[0-9]*$', newval) is not None and 
len(newval) <= 5 
check_num_wrapper = (root.register(check_num), '%P') 
 
num = StringVar() 
e = ttk.Entry(root, textvariable=num, validate='key', 
validatecommand=check_num_wrapper) 
e.grid(column=0, row=0, sticky='we')
  https://tkdocs.com/code/numvalidate.py
A few things are worth noting. First, as with event bindings, we can
access more information about the conditions that triggered the
validation via percent substitutions. We used one of these here: %P is
the new value of the entry if the validation passes. We'll use a simple
regular expression and a length check to determine if the change is
valid. To reject the change, our validation command can return a
false value, and the entry will remain unchanged.
Taking advantage of these percent substitutions requires a bit of
gymnastics. You'll recall that Tkinter abstracts away percent
substitutions in event binding callbacks. There, all of the event
parameters are wrapped into an event object which is always passed
to the callback. There's not an equivalent abstraction for validation
callbacks. Instead, we have to choose which percent substitutions
we're interested in. The register method (which can be called on
any widget, not just root) creates a Tcl procedure which will call our
Python function. The percent substitutions we've chosen will be
passed to it as parameters.
Let's extend our example so that the entry will accept a US zip
code, formatted as "#####" or "#####-####" ("#" can be any digit).
We'll still do some validation on each keystroke (only allowing entry
of numbers or a hyphen). However, We can no longer fully validate
the entry on every keystroke; if they've just typed the first digit, it's
not valid yet. So full validation will only happen when the entry loses
focus (e.g., a user tabs away from it). Tk refers to this as

--- Strana 87 ---
revalidation, in contrast with prevalidation (accepting changes on
each keystroke).
How should we respond to errors? Let's add a message
reminding users of the format. It will appear if they type a wrong key
or tab away from the entry when it's not holding a valid zip code.
We'll remove the message when they return to the entry or type a
valid key. We'll also add a (dummy) button to "process" the zip code,
which will be disabled unless the zip entry is valid. Finally, we'll also
add a "name" entry so you can tab away from the zip entry.
import re 
errmsg = StringVar() 
formatmsg = "Zip should be ##### or #####-####" 
 
def check_zip(newval, op): 
    errmsg.set('') 
    valid = re.match('^[0-9]{5}(\-[0-9]{4})?$', newval) is 
not None 
    btn.state(['!disabled'] if valid else ['disabled']) 
    if op=='key': 
        ok_so_far = re.match('^[0-9\-]*$', newval) is not 
None and len(newval) <= 10 
        if not ok_so_far: 
            errmsg.set(formatmsg) 
        return ok_so_far 
    elif op=='focusout': 
        if not valid: 
            errmsg.set(formatmsg) 
    return valid 
check_zip_wrapper = (root.register(check_zip), '%P', '%V') 
 
zip = StringVar() 
f = ttk.Frame(root) 
f.grid(column=0, row=0) 
ttk.Label(f, text='Name:').grid(column=0, row=0, padx=5, 
pady=5) 
ttk.Entry(f).grid(column=1, row=0, padx=5, pady=5) 
ttk.Label(f, text='Zip:').grid(column=0, row=1, padx=5, 
pady=5) 
e = ttk.Entry(f, textvariable=zip, validate='all', 
validatecommand=check_zip_wrapper) 
e.grid(column=1, row=1, padx=5, pady=5) 
btn = ttk.Button(f, text="Process") 
btn.grid(column=2, row=1, padx=5, pady=5) 
btn.state(['disabled']) 

--- Strana 88 ---
msg = ttk.Label(f, font='TkSmallCaptionFont', 
foreground='red', textvariable=errmsg) 
msg.grid(column=1, row=2, padx=5, pady=5, sticky='w')
  https://tkdocs.com/code/validate.py
Notice that the validate configuration option has been changed from
key to all. That arranges for the validatecommand callback to be
invoked on not only keystrokes but other triggers. The trigger is
passed to the callback using the %V percent substitution. The
callback differentiated between key and focusout triggers (you can
also check for focusin).
There's a few more things to know about validation. First, if your
validatecommand ever generates an error (or doesn't return a boolean),
validation will be disabled for that widget. Your callback can modify the
entry, e.g., change its textvariable. You can ask the widget to validate at any
time by calling it's validate method, which returns true if validation passes (the
%V substitution is set to forced).
There is an 
invalidcommand configuration option (which works like
validatecommand) that is called whenever validation fails. You can use it to
accomplish nasty things like forcing the focus back on the widget that didn't
validate. In practice, it's rarely used. As mentioned earlier, the entry's invalid
state flag (which can be checked via the instate invalid method) is
automatically updated as validation succeeds or fails.
Other percent substitutions allow you to get the entry's contents prior to editing
(%s), differentiate between insert and delete (%d), where an insert or delete
occurs (%i), what is being inserted or deleted (%S), the current setting of the
validate option (%v) and the name of the widget (%W).

--- Strana 89 ---
6.7. Combobox
  ttk.Combobox
  https://tkdocs.com/man/ttk_combobox
A combobox widget combines an entry with a list of choices. This
lets users either choose from a set of values you've provided (e.g.,
typical settings), but also put in their own value (e.g., for less
common cases).
Combobox widgets.
Comboboxes are created using the ttk.Combobox class:
countryvar = StringVar() 
country = ttk.Combobox(parent, textvariable=countryvar)
Like entries, the textvariable option links a variable in your program
to the current value of the combobox. As with other widgets, you
should initialize the linked variable in your own code.
A combobox will generate a <<ComboboxSelected>> virtual event
that you can bind to whenever its value changes. (You could also
trace changes on the textvariable, as we've seen in the previous
few widgets we covered. Binding to the event is more
straightforward, and so tends to be our preferred choice.)

--- Strana 90 ---
country.bind('<<ComboboxSelected>>', function)
Predefined Values
You can provide a list of values that users can choose from using the
values configuration option:
country['values'] = ('USA', 'Canada', 'Australia')
If set, the readonly state flag will restrict users to making choices
only from the list of predefined values, but not be able to enter their
own (though if the current value of the combobox is not in the list, it
won't be changed).
country.state(["readonly"])
If you're using the combobox in readonly mode, I'd recommend that
when the value changes (i.e., on a <<ComboboxSelected>> event), that
you call the selection_clear method. It looks a bit odd visually without
doing that.
You can also get the current value using the get method, and change
the current value using the set method (which takes a single
argument, the new value).
As a complement to the get and set methods, you can also use
the current method to determine which item in the predefined values
list is selected. Call current with no arguments; it will return a 0-
based index into the list, or -1 if the current value is not in the list.
You can select an item in the list by calling current with a single 0-
based index argument.
Want to associate some other value with each item in the list so that
your program can use one value internally, but it gets displayed in the
combobox as something else? You'll want to have a look at the section
entitled "Keeping Extra Item Data" when we get to the discussion of listboxes
in a couple of chapters from now.

--- Strana 91 ---
7. The Grid Geometry Manager
We'll take a bit of a break from talking about different widgets (what
to put onscreen) and focus instead on geometry management
(where to put those widgets). We introduced the general idea of
geometry management in the "Tk Concepts" chapter. Here, we focus
on one specific geometry manager: grid.
As we've seen, grid lets you layout widgets in columns and rows.
If you're familiar with using HTML tables to do layout, you'll feel right
at home here. This chapter illustrates the various ways you can
tweak grid to give you all the control you need for your user
interface.
Grid is one of several geometry managers available in Tk, but its
mix of power, flexibility, and ease of use make it the best choice for
general use. Its constraint model is a natural fit with today's layouts
that rely on the alignment of widgets. There are other geometry
managers in Tk: pack is also quite powerful, but harder to use and
understand, while place gives you complete control of positioning
each element. Even widgets like paned windows, notebooks,
canvas, and text that we'll explore later can act as geometry
managers.
It's worth noting that grid was first introduced to Tk in 1996, several
years after Tk became popular, and it took a while to catch on. Before
that, developers had always used pack to do constraint-based

--- Strana 92 ---
geometry management. When grid came out, many developers kept using
pack, and you'll still find it used in many Tk programs and documentation. While
there's nothing technically wrong with pack, the algorithm's behavior is often
hard to understand. More importantly, because the order that widgets are
packed is significant in determining layout, modifying existing layouts can be
more difficult. Aligning widgets in different parts of the user interface is also
much trickier.
Grid has all the power of pack, produces nicer layouts (that align widgets both
horizontally and vertically), and is easier to learn and use. Because of that, we
think grid is the right choice for most developers most of the time. Start your
new programs using grid, and switch old ones to grid as you're making
changes to an existing user interface.
The reference documentation for grid provides an exhaustive
description of grid, its behaviors and all options.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/grid

--- Strana 93 ---
7.1. Columns and Rows
In grid, widgets are assigned a column number and a row number.
These indicate each widget's position relative to other widgets. All
widgets in the same column will be above or below each other.
Those in the same row will be to the left or right of each other.
Column and row numbers must be positive integers (i.e., 0, 1, 2,
...). You don't have to start at 0 and can leave gaps in column and
row numbers (e.g., column 1, 2, 10, 11, 12, 20, 21). This is useful if
you plan to add more widgets in the middle of the user interface
later.
The width of each column will vary depending on the width of the
widgets contained within the column. Ditto for the height of each row.
This means when sketching out your user interface and dividing it
into rows and columns, you don't need to worry about each column
or row being equal width.

--- Strana 94 ---
7.2. Spanning Multiple Cells
Widgets can take up more than a single cell in the grid; to do this,
we'll use the columnspan and rowspan options when gridding the
widget. These are analogous to the "colspan" and "rowspan"
attribute of HTML tables.
Here is an example of creating a user interface with multiple
widgets, some that take up more than a single cell.
Gridding multiple widgets.
from tkinter import * 
from tkinter import ttk 
 
root = Tk() 
 
content = ttk.Frame(root) 
frame = ttk.Frame(content, borderwidth=5, relief="ridge", 
width=200, height=100) 
namelbl = ttk.Label(content, text="Name") 
name = ttk.Entry(content) 
 
onevar = BooleanVar(value=True) 
twovar = BooleanVar(value=False) 
threevar = BooleanVar(value=True) 
 
one = ttk.Checkbutton(content, text="One", variable=onevar, 
onvalue=True) 
two = ttk.Checkbutton(content, text="Two", variable=twovar, 
onvalue=True) 
three = ttk.Checkbutton(content, text="Three", 
variable=threevar, onvalue=True) 

--- Strana 95 ---
ok = ttk.Button(content, text="Okay") 
cancel = ttk.Button(content, text="Cancel") 
 
content.grid(column=0, row=0) 
frame.grid(column=0, row=0, columnspan=3, rowspan=2) 
namelbl.grid(column=3, row=0, columnspan=2) 
name.grid(column=3, row=1, columnspan=2) 
one.grid(column=0, row=3) 
two.grid(column=1, row=3) 
three.grid(column=2, row=3) 
ok.grid(column=3, row=3) 
cancel.grid(column=4, row=3) 
 
root.mainloop()
  https://tkdocs.com/code/gridexample1.py

--- Strana 96 ---
7.3. Layout within the Cell
Because the width of a column (and height of a row) depends on all
the widgets that have been added to it, the odds are that at least
some widgets will have a smaller width or height than has been
allocated for the cell its been placed in. So the question becomes,
where exactly should it be put within the cell?
By default, if a cell is larger than the widget contained in it, the
widget will be centered within it, both horizontally and vertically. The
master's background will display in the empty space around it. In the
figure below, the widget in the top right is smaller than the cell
allocated to it. The (white) background of the master fills the rest of
the cell.
Layout within the cell and the 'sticky' option.
The sticky option can change this default behavior. Its value is a
string of 0 or more of the compass directions nsew, specifying which
edges of the cell the widget should be "stuck" to. For example, a
value of n (north) will jam the widget up against the top side, with any
extra vertical space on the bottom; the widget will still be centered
horizontally. A value of nw (north-west) means the widget will be
stuck to the top left corner, with extra space on the bottom and right.
In Tkinter, you can also specify this as a list containing any of N, S, E,
and W. It's a stylistic choice, and we'll tend to use the list format in this
book.
Specifying two opposite edges, such as we (west, east) means that
the widget will be stretched. In this case, it will be stuck to both the

--- Strana 97 ---
left and right edge of the cell. So the widget will then be wider than
its "ideal" size.
If you want the widget to expand to fill up the entire cell, grid it
with a sticky value of nsew (north, south, east, west), meaning it will
stick to every side. This is shown in the bottom left widget in the
above figure.
Most widgets have options that can control how they are displayed if
they are larger than needed. For example, a label widget has an anchor
option that controls where the label's text will be positioned within the
widget's boundaries. The bottom left label in the figure above uses the default
anchor (w, i.e., left side, vertically centered).
If you're having trouble getting things to line up the way you want them to, first
make sure you know large the widget is. As we discussed with the label
widget in the previous chapter, changing the widget's background or border
can help. the

--- Strana 98 ---
7.4. Handling Resize
If you've tried to resize the example, you'll notice that nothing moves
at all, as shown below.
Resizing the window.
Even if you took a peek below and added the extra sticky options to
our example, you'd still see the same thing. It looks like sticky may
tell Tk how to react if the cell's row or column does resize, but
doesn't actually say that the row or columns should resize if extra
room becomes available. Let's fix that.
Every column and row in the grid has a weight option associated
with it. This tells grid how much the column or row should grow if
there is extra room in the master to fill. By default, the weight of each
column or row is 0, meaning it won't expand to fill any extra space.
For the user interface to resize then, we'll need to specify a
positive weight to the columns that we'd like to expand. This is done
using the columnconfigure and rowconfigure methods of grid. This
weight is relative. If two columns have the same weight, they'll
expand at the same rate. In our example, we'll give the three
leftmost columns (holding the checkbuttons) a weight of 3, and the
two rightmost columns a weight of 1. For every one pixel the right
columns grow, the left columns will grow by three pixels. So as the
window grows larger, most of the extra space will go to the left side.

--- Strana 99 ---
Resizing the window after adding weights.
Both columnconfigure and rowconfigure also take a minsize grid
option, which specifies a minimum size which you really don't want
the column or row to shrink beyond.

--- Strana 100 ---
7.5. Padding
Normally, each column or row will be directly adjacent to the next, so
that widgets will be right next to each other. This is sometimes what
you want (think of a listbox and its scrollbar), but often you want
some space between widgets. In Tk, this is called padding, and there
are several ways you can choose to add it.
We've already actually seen one way, and that is using a widget's
own options to add the extra space around it. Not all widgets have
this, but one that does is a frame; this is useful because frames are
most often used as the master to grid other widgets. The frame's
padding option lets you specify a bit of extra padding inside the
frame, whether the same amount for each of the four sides or even
different for each.
A second way is using the padx and pady grid options when adding
the widget. As you'd expect, padx puts a bit of extra space to the left
and right, while pady adds extra space top and bottom. A single
value for the option puts the same padding on both left and right (or
top and bottom), while a two-value list lets you put different amounts
on left and right (or top and bottom). Note that this extra padding is
within the grid cell containing the widget.
If you want to add padding around an entire row or column, the
columnconfigure and rowconfigure methods accept a pad option,
which will do this for you.
Let's add the extra sticky, resizing, and padding behavior to our
example (additions in bold).
from tkinter import * 
from tkinter import ttk 
 
root = Tk() 
 
content = ttk.Frame(root, padding=(3,3,12,12)) 
frame = ttk.Frame(content, borderwidth=5, relief="ridge", 
width=200, height=100) 
namelbl = ttk.Label(content, text="Name") 
name = ttk.Entry(content) 

--- Strana 101 ---
 
onevar = BooleanVar() 
twovar = BooleanVar() 
threevar = BooleanVar() 
 
onevar.set(True) 
twovar.set(False) 
threevar.set(True) 
 
one = ttk.Checkbutton(content, text="One", variable=onevar, 
onvalue=True) 
two = ttk.Checkbutton(content, text="Two", variable=twovar, 
onvalue=True) 
three = ttk.Checkbutton(content, text="Three", 
variable=threevar, onvalue=True) 
ok = ttk.Button(content, text="Okay") 
cancel = ttk.Button(content, text="Cancel") 
 
content.grid(column=0, row=0, sticky=(N, S, E, W)) 
frame.grid(column=0, row=0, columnspan=3, rowspan=2, sticky=
(N, S, E, W)) 
namelbl.grid(column=3, row=0, columnspan=2, sticky=(N, W), 
padx=5) 
name.grid(column=3, row=1, columnspan=2, sticky=(N,E,W), 
pady=5, padx=5) 
one.grid(column=0, row=3) 
two.grid(column=1, row=3) 
three.grid(column=2, row=3) 
ok.grid(column=3, row=3) 
cancel.grid(column=4, row=3) 
 
root.columnconfigure(0, weight=1)
root.rowconfigure(0, weight=1)
content.columnconfigure(0, weight=3)
content.columnconfigure(1, weight=3)
content.columnconfigure(2, weight=3)
content.columnconfigure(3, weight=1)
content.columnconfigure(4, weight=1)
content.rowconfigure(1, weight=1) 
 
root.mainloop()
  https://tkdocs.com/code/gridexample2.py
This looks more promising. Play around with the example to get a
feel for the resize behavior.

--- Strana 102 ---
Grid example, handling in-cell layout and resize.

--- Strana 103 ---
7.6. Additional Grid Features
If you look at the reference documentation for grid, you'll see many
other things you can do with grid. Here are a few of the more useful
ones.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/grid
Querying and Changing Grid Options
Like widgets themselves, it's easy to introspect the various grid
options or change them. Setting options when you first grid the
widget is certainly convenient, but you can change them anytime
you'd like.
The slaves method will tell you all the widgets that have been
gridded inside a master, or optionally those within just a certain
column or row. The info method will return a list of all the grid
options for a widget and their values. Finally, the configure method
lets you change one or more grid options on a widget.
These are illustrated in this interactive session:
>>> content.grid_slaves() 
[<tkinter.ttk.Button object .!frame.!button2>, 
<tkinter.ttk.Button object .!frame.!button>, 
<tkinter.ttk.Checkbutton object .!frame.!checkbutton3>, 
<tkinter.ttk.Checkbutton object .!frame.!checkbutton2>, 
<tkinter.ttk.Checkbutton object .!frame.!checkbutton>, 
<tkinter.ttk.Entry object .!frame.!entry>,  
<tkinter.ttk.Label object .!frame.!label>, <tkinter.ttk.Frame 
object .!frame.!frame>] 
>>> for w in content.grid_slaves(): print(w) 
... 
.!frame.!button2 
.!frame.!button 
.!frame.!checkbutton3 
.!frame.!checkbutton2 
.!frame.!checkbutton 
.!frame.!entry 
.!frame.!label 
.!frame.!frame 

--- Strana 104 ---
>>> for w in content.grid_slaves(row=3): print(w) 
... 
.!frame.!button2 
.!frame.!button 
.!frame.!checkbutton3 
.!frame.!checkbutton2 
.!frame.!checkbutton 
>>> for w in content.grid_slaves(column=0): print(w) 
... 
.!frame.!checkbutton 
.!frame.!frame 
>>> namelbl.grid_info() 
{'in': <tkinter.ttk.Frame object .!frame>, 'column': 3, 
'row': 0, 'columnspan': 2, 'rowspan': 1,  
'ipadx': 0, 'ipady': 0, 'padx': 5, 'pady': 0, 'sticky': 'nw'} 
>>> namelbl.grid_configure(sticky=(E,W)) 
>>> namelbl.grid_info() 
{'in': <tkinter.ttk.Frame object .!frame>, 'column': 3, 
'row': 0, 'columnspan': 2, 'rowspan': 1,  
'ipadx': 0, 'ipady': 0, 'padx': 5, 'pady': 0, 'sticky': 'ew'}
Internal Padding
You saw how the padx and pady grid options added extra space
around the outside of a widget. There's also a less used type of
padding called "internal padding" controlled by the grid options ipadx
and ipady.
The difference can be subtle. Let's say you have a frame that's
20x20, and specify normal (external) padding of 5 pixels on each
side. The frame will request a 20x20 rectangle (its natural size) from
the geometry manager. Normally, that's what it will be granted, so it'll
get a 20x20 rectangle for the frame, surrounded by a 5-pixel border.
With internal padding, the geometry manager will effectively add
the extra padding to the widget when figuring out its natural size, as
if the widget has requested a 30x30 rectangle. If the frame is
centered, or attached to a single side or corner (using sticky), we'll
end up with a 20x20 frame with extra space around it. If, however,
the frame is set to stretch (i.e., a sticky value of we, ns, or nwes), it
will fill the extra space, resulting in a 30x30 frame, with no border.
Forget and Remove

--- Strana 105 ---
The forget method of grid removes slaves from the grid they're
currently part of. It takes a list of one or more slave widgets as
arguments. This does not destroy the widget altogether but takes it
off the screen as if it had not been gridded in the first place. You can
grid it again later, though any grid options you'd originally assigned
will have been lost.
The remove method of grid works the same, except that the grid
options will be remembered if you grid it again later.

--- Strana 106 ---
7.7. Nested Layouts
As your user interface gets more complicated, the grid that you're
using to organize all your widgets can get increasingly complicated.
This can make changing and maintaining your program very difficult.
Luckily, you don't have to manage your entire user interface with a
single grid. If you have one area of your user interface that is fairly
independent of others, create a new frame to hold that area and grid
the widgets in area within that frame. For example, if you were
building a graphics editor with multiple palettes, toolbars, etc., each
one of those areas might be a candidate for putting in its own frame.
In theory, these frames, each with its own grid, can be nested
arbitrarily deep, though, in practice, this usually doesn't go beyond a
few levels. This can be a big help in modularizing your program. If,
for example, you have a palette of drawing tools, you can create the
whole thing in a separate function or class. It would be responsible
for creating all the component widgets, gridding them together,
setting up event bindings, etc. The details of how things work inside
that palette can be contained in that one piece of code. From the
point of view of your main program, all it needs to know about is the
single frame widget containing your palette.
Our examples have shown just a hint of this, where a content
frame was gridded into the main window, and then all the other
widgets gridded into the content frame.
As your own programs grow larger, you'll likely run into situations
where making a change in the layout of one part of your interface
requires code changes to the layout of another part. That may be a
clue to reconsider how you're using grid and if splitting out
components into separate frames would help.

--- Strana 107 ---
8. More Widgets
This chapter carries on introducing several more widgets: listbox,
scrollbar, text, scale, spinbox, and progressbar. Some of these are
starting to be a bit more powerful than the basic ones we looked at
before. Here we'll also see a few instances of using the classic Tk
widgets, in cases where there isn't (or there isn't a need for) a
themed counterpart.

--- Strana 108 ---
8.1. Listbox
  Listbox
  https://tkdocs.com/man/listbox
A listbox widget displays a list of single-line text items, usually
lengthy, and allows users to browse through the list, selecting one or
more.
Listboxes are part of the classic Tk widgets; there is not presently
a listbox in the themed Tk widget set.
Tk's treeview widget (which is themed) can also be used as a listbox (a
one level deep tree), allowing you to use icons and styles with the list.
It's also likely that a multi-column (table) list widget will make it into Tk
at some point, whether based on treeview or one of the available extensions.
Listbox widgets.
Listboxes are created using the Listbox class. A height configuration
option can specify the number of lines the listbox will display at a
time without scrolling:
l = Listbox(parent, height=10)
Populating the Listbox Items

--- Strana 109 ---
There's an easy way and a hard way to populate and manage all the
items in the listbox.
Here's the easy way. Each listbox has a 
listvariable
configuration option, which allows you to link a variable (which must
hold a list) to the listbox. Each element of this list is a string
representing one item in the listbox. To add, remove, or rearrange
items in the listbox, you can simply modify this variable as you would
any other list. Similarly, to find out, e.g., which item is on the third line
of the listbox, just look at the third element of the list variable.
It's actually not quite that easy. Tkinter doesn't allow you to link
regular Python lists to a listbox. As we saw with widgets like entry,
we need to use a StringVar as an intermediary. It provides a
mapping between Python's lists and a string representation that the
underlying Tk widgets can use. It also means that anytime we
change the list, we need to update the StringVar.
choices = ["apple", "orange", "banana"] 
choicesvar = StringVar(value=choices) 
l = Listbox(parent, listvariable=choicesvar) 
... 
choices.append("peach") 
choicesvar.set(choices)
The older, harder way to do things is to use a set of methods that are
part of the listbox widget itself. They operate on the (internal) list of
items maintained by the widget:
The insert idx item ?item...? method is used to add one or
more items to the list; idx is a 0-based index indicating the
position of the item before which the item(s) should be added;
specify end to put the new items at the end of the list.
Use the delete first ?last? method to delete one or more
items from the list; first and last are indices as per the insert
method.
Use the get first ?last? method to return the contents of a
single item at the given position, or a list of the items between
first and last.

--- Strana 110 ---
The size method returns the number of items in the list.
The reason there is a hard way at all is because the listvariable
option was only introduced in Tk 8.3. Before that, you were stuck with
the hard way. Because using the list variable lets you use all the
standard list operations, it provides a much simpler API. It's certainly an
upgrade worth considering if you have listboxes doing things the older way.
Selecting Items
You can choose whether users can select only a single item at a time
from the listbox, or if multiple items can simultaneously be selected.
This is controlled by the selectmode option: the default is only being
able to select a single item (browse), while a selectmode of extended
allows users to select multiple items.
The names browse and extended, again for backward compatibility reasons, are
truly awful. This is made worse by the fact that there are two other
modes, single and multiple, which you should not use (they use an
old interaction style that is inconsistent with modern user interface and
platform conventions).
To find out which item or items in the listbox are currently selected,
use the curselection method. It returns a list of indices of all items
currently selected; this may be an empty list. For lists with a
selectmode of browse, it will never be longer than one item. You can
also use the selection_includes index method to check if the item
with the given index is currently selected.
if lbox.selection_includes(2): ...
To programmatically change the selection, you can use the
selection_clear first ?last? method to deselect either a single
item or any within the range of indices specified. To select an item or
all items in a range, use the selection_set first ?last? method.
Both of these will not touch the selection of any items outside the
range specified.

--- Strana 111 ---
If you change the selection, you should also make sure that the
newly selected item is visible (i.e., it is not scrolled out of view). To
do this, use the see index method.
lbox.selection_set(idx) 
lbox.see(idx)
When a user changes the selection, a <<ListboxSelect>> virtual
event is generated. You can bind to this to take any action you need.
Depending on your application, you may also want to bind to a
double-click <Double-1> event and use it to invoke an action with the
currently selected item.
lbox.bind("<<ListboxSelect>>", lambda e: 
updateDetails(lbox.curselection())) 
lbox.bind("<Double-1>", lambda e: 
invokeAction(lbox.curselection()))
Stylizing the List
Like most of the "classic" Tk widgets, you have immense flexibility in
modifying the appearance of a listbox. As described in the reference
manual, you can modify the font the listbox items are displayed in,
the foreground (text) and background colors for items in their normal
state, when selected, when the widget is disabled, etc. There is also
an itemconfigure method that allows you to change the foreground
and background colors of individual items.
As is often the case, restraint is useful. Generally, the default
values will be entirely suitable and a good match for platform
conventions. In the example we'll get to momentarily, we'll show how
restrained use of these options can be put to good effect, in this case
displaying alternate lines of the listbox in slightly different colors.
Keeping Extra Item Data
The listvariable (or the internal list, if you're managing things the
old way) holds the strings that will be shown in the listbox. It's often
the case, though, that each string you're displaying is associated

--- Strana 112 ---
with some other data item. This might bean internal object that is
meaningful to your program, but not meant to be displayed to users.
In other words, what you're really interested in is not so much the
string displayed in the listbox, but the associated data item. For
example, a listbox may display a list of names to users, but your
program is really interested in the underlying user object (or id
number) for each one, not the particular name.
How can we associate this underlying value with the name that is
displayed? Unfortunately, the listbox widget itself doesn't offer any
facilities, so it's something we'll have to manage separately. There
are a couple of obvious approaches. First, if the displayed strings are
guaranteed unique, you could use a hash table to map each name to
its associated underlying object. This wouldn't work well for peoples'
names, where duplicates are possible, but could work for countries,
which are unique.
A second approach is to keep a second list, parallel to the list of
strings displayed in the listbox. This second list will hold the
underlying object associated with each item that is displayed. So the
first item in the displayed strings list corresponds to the first item in
the underlying objects list, the second to the second, etc. Any
changes that you make in one list (insert, delete, reorder), you must
make in the other. You can then easily map from the displayed list
item to the underlying object, based on their position in the list.
Example
Here is a silly example showing several of these listbox techniques.
We'll have a list of countries displayed. We'll be able to select only a
single country at a time. As we do so, a status bar will display the
population of the country. You can press a button to send one of
several gifts to the selected country's head of state (well, not really,
but use your imagination). Sending a gift can also be triggered by
double-clicking the list or hitting the Return key.
Behind the scenes, we maintain two lists in parallel. The first is a
list of two-letter country codes. The other is the corresponding name
for each country that we will display in the listbox. We also have a

--- Strana 113 ---
simple hash table that contains the population of each country,
indexed by the two-letter country code.
Country selector listbox example.
from tkinter import * 
from tkinter import ttk 
root = Tk() 
 
# Initialize our country "databases":
#  - the list of country codes (a subset anyway)
#  - parallel list of country names, same order as the 
country codes
#  - a hash table mapping country code to population 
countrycodes = ('ar', 'au', 'be', 'br', 'ca', 'cn', 'dk', 
'fi', 'fr', 'gr', 'in', 'it', 'jp', 'mx', 'nl', 'no', 'es', 
'se', 'ch') 
countrynames = ('Argentina', 'Australia', 'Belgium', 
'Brazil', 'Canada', 'China', 'Denmark', \ 
        'Finland', 'France', 'Greece', 'India', 'Italy', 
'Japan', 'Mexico', 'Netherlands', 'Norway', 'Spain', \ 
        'Sweden', 'Switzerland') 
cnames = StringVar(value=countrynames) 
populations = {'ar':41000000, 'au':21179211, 'be':10584534, 
'br':185971537, \ 
        'ca':33148682, 'cn':1323128240, 'dk':5457415, 
'fi':5302000, 'fr':64102140, 'gr':11147000, \ 
        'in':1131043000, 'it':59206382, 'jp':127718000, 
'mx':106535000, 'nl':16402414, \ 
        'no':4738085, 'es':45116894, 'se':9174082, 
'ch':7508700} 
 
# Names of the gifts we can send 

--- Strana 114 ---
gifts = { 'card':'Greeting card', 'flowers':'Flowers', 
'nastygram':'Nastygram'} 
 
# State variables 
gift = StringVar() 
sentmsg = StringVar() 
statusmsg = StringVar() 
 
# Called when the selection in the listbox changes; figure 
out
# which country is currently selected, and then lookup its 
country
# code, and from that, its population.  Update the status 
message
# with the new population.  As well, clear the message about 
the
# gift being sent, so it doesn't stick around after we start 
doing
# other things. 
def showPopulation(*args): 
    idxs = lbox.curselection() 
    if len(idxs)==1: 
        idx = int(idxs[0]) 
        code = countrycodes[idx] 
        name = countrynames[idx] 
        popn = populations[code] 
        statusmsg.set("The population of %s (%s) is %d" % 
(name, code, popn)) 
    sentmsg.set('') 
 
# Called when the user double clicks an item in the listbox, 
presses
# the "Send Gift" button, or presses the Return key.  In case 
the selected
# item is scrolled out of view, make sure it is visible. 
# 
# Figure out which country is selected, which gift is 
selected with the 
# radiobuttons, "send the gift", and provide feedback that it 
was sent. 
def sendGift(*args): 
    idxs = lbox.curselection() 
    if len(idxs)==1: 
        idx = int(idxs[0]) 
        lbox.see(idx) 
        name = countrynames[idx] 
        # Gift sending left as an exercise to the reader 
        sentmsg.set("Sent %s to leader of %s" % 

--- Strana 115 ---
(gifts[gift.get()], name)) 
 
# Create and grid the outer content frame 
c = ttk.Frame(root, padding=(5, 5, 12, 0)) 
c.grid(column=0, row=0, sticky=(N,W,E,S)) 
root.grid_columnconfigure(0, weight=1) 
root.grid_rowconfigure(0,weight=1) 
 
# Create the different widgets; note the variables that many
# of them are bound to, as well as the button callback.
# We're using the StringVar() 'cnames', constructed from 
'countrynames'
lbox = Listbox(c, listvariable=cnames, height=5) 
lbl = ttk.Label(c, text="Send to country's leader:") 
g1 = ttk.Radiobutton(c, text=gifts['card'], variable=gift, 
value='card') 
g2 = ttk.Radiobutton(c, text=gifts['flowers'], variable=gift, 
value='flowers') 
g3 = ttk.Radiobutton(c, text=gifts['nastygram'], 
variable=gift, value='nastygram') 
send = ttk.Button(c, text='Send Gift', command=sendGift, 
default='active') 
sentlbl = ttk.Label(c, textvariable=sentmsg, anchor='center') 
status = ttk.Label(c, textvariable=statusmsg, anchor=W) 
 
# Grid all the widgets 
lbox.grid(column=0, row=0, rowspan=6, sticky=(N,S,E,W)) 
lbl.grid(column=1, row=0, padx=10, pady=5) 
g1.grid(column=1, row=1, sticky=W, padx=20) 
g2.grid(column=1, row=2, sticky=W, padx=20) 
g3.grid(column=1, row=3, sticky=W, padx=20) 
send.grid(column=2, row=4, sticky=E) 
sentlbl.grid(column=1, row=5, columnspan=2, sticky=N, pady=5, 
padx=5) 
status.grid(column=0, row=6, columnspan=2, sticky=(W,E)) 
c.grid_columnconfigure(0, weight=1) 
c.grid_rowconfigure(5, weight=1) 
 
# Set event bindings for when the selection in the listbox 
changes,
# when the user double clicks the list, and when they hit the 
Return key 
lbox.bind('<<ListboxSelect>>', showPopulation) 
lbox.bind('<Double-1>', sendGift) 
root.bind('<Return>', sendGift) 
 
# Colorize alternating lines of the listbox 
for i in range(0,len(countrynames),2): 

--- Strana 116 ---
    lbox.itemconfigure(i, background='#f0f0ff') 
 
# Set the starting state of the interface, including 
selecting the
# default gift to send, and clearing the messages.  Select 
the first
# country in the list; because the <<ListboxSelect>> event is 
only
# fired when users makes a change, we explicitly call 
showPopulation. 
gift.set('card') 
sentmsg.set('') 
statusmsg.set('') 
lbox.selection_set(0) 
showPopulation() 
 
root.mainloop()
  https://tkdocs.com/code/country.py
One obvious thing missing from this example was that while the list
of countries could be quite long, only part of it fits on the screen at
once. To show countries further down in the list, you had to either
drag with your mouse or use the down arrow key. A scrollbar would
have been nice. Let's fix that.

--- Strana 117 ---
8.2. Scrollbar
  ttk.Scrollbar
  https://tkdocs.com/man/ttk_scrollbar
A scrollbar widget helps users see all parts of another widget,
whose content is typically much larger than what can be shown in
the available screen space.
Scrollbar widgets.
Scrollbars are created using the ttk.Scrollbar class:
s = ttk.Scrollbar( parent, orient=VERTICAL, 
command=listbox.yview) 
listbox.configure(yscrollcommand=s.set)
Unlike in some user interface toolkits, Tk scrollbars are not a part of
another widget (e.g., a listbox), but are a separate widget altogether.
Instead, scrollbars communicate with the scrolled widget by calling
methods on the scrolled widget; as it turns out, the scrolled widget
also needs to call methods on the scrollbar.
If you're using a recent Linux distribution, you've probably noticed that
the scrollbars you see in many applications have changed to look more

--- Strana 118 ---
like what you'd see on macOS. This newer look isn't supported on Linux by any
of the default themes included with Tk. However, some third-party themes do
support it.
The orient configuration option determines whether the scrollbar will
scroll the scrolled widget in the horizontal or vertical dimension.
You then need to use the command configuration option to specify how
to communicate with the scrolled widget. This is the method to call
on the scrolled widget when the scrollbar moves.
Every widget that can be scrolled vertically includes a method
named yview, while those that can be scrolled horizontally have a
method named xview). As long as this method is present, the
scrollbar doesn't need to know anything else about the scrolled
widget. When the scrollbar is manipulated, it appends several
parameters to the method call, indicating how it was scrolled, to what
position, etc.
The scrolled widget also needs to communicate back to the
scrollbar, telling it what percentage of the entire content area is now
visible. Besides the yview and/or xview methods, every scrollable
widget 
also 
has 
a 
yscrollcommand 
and/or 
xscrollcommand
configuration option. This is used to specify a method call, which
must be the scrollbar's set method. Again, additional parameters will
be automatically tacked onto the method call.
If, for some reason, you want to move the scrollbar to a particular
position from within your program, you can call the set first last
method yourself. Pass it two floating-point values (between 0 and 1)
indicating the start and end percentage of the content area that is visible.
Example
Listboxes are one of several types of widgets that are scrollable.
Here, we'll build a very simple user interface, consisting of a
vertically scrollable listbox that takes up the entire window, with just a
status line at the bottom.

--- Strana 119 ---
Scrolling a listbox.
from tkinter import * 
from tkinter import ttk 
 
root = Tk() 
l = Listbox(root, height=5) 
l.grid(column=0, row=0, sticky=(N,W,E,S)) 
s = ttk.Scrollbar(root, orient=VERTICAL, command=l.yview) 
s.grid(column=1, row=0, sticky=(N,S)) 
l['yscrollcommand'] = s.set 
ttk.Label(root, text="Status message here", anchor=
(W)).grid(column=0, columnspan=2, row=1, sticky=(W,E)) 
root.grid_columnconfigure(0, weight=1) 
root.grid_rowconfigure(0, weight=1) 
for i in range(1,101): 
    l.insert('end', 'Line %d of 100' % i) 
root.mainloop()
  https://tkdocs.com/code/scrollbar.py
If you've seen an earlier version of this book, you might recall that at
this point we introduced a sizegrip widget. It placed a small handle at
the bottom right of the window, allowing users to resize the window by
dragging the handle. This was commonly seen on some platforms, including
older versions of macOS. Some older versions of Tk even automatically added
this handle to the window for you.
Platform conventions tend to evolve faster than long-lived open source GUI
toolkits. Mac OS X 10.7 did away with the size grip in the corner, in favor of
allowing resizing from any window edge, finally catching up with the rest of the

--- Strana 120 ---
world. Unless there's a pressing need to be visually compatible with 10+ year
old operating systems, if you have a sizegrip (class ttk.Sizegrip) in your
application, it's probably best to remove it.

--- Strana 121 ---
8.3. Text
  Text
  https://tkdocs.com/man/text
A text widget provides users with an area so that they can enter
multiple lines of text. Text widgets are part of the classic Tk widgets,
not the themed Tk widgets.
 
Text widgets.
Tk's text widget is, along with the canvas widget, one of two uber-
powerful widgets that provide amazingly deep but easily programmed
features. Text widgets have formed the basis for full word processors,
outliners, web browsers, and more. We'll get into some of the advanced stuff in
a later chapter. Here, we'll show you how to use the text widget to capture fairly
simple, multi-line text input.
Text widgets are created using the Text class:
t = Text(parent, width=40, height=10)
The width and height options specify the requested screen size of
the text widget, in characters and rows, respectively. The contents of
the text can be arbitrarily large. You can use the wrap configuration
option to control how line wrapping is handled: values are none (no

--- Strana 122 ---
wrapping, text may horizontally scroll), char (wrap at any character),
and word (wrapping will only occur at word boundaries).
A text widget can be disabled so that no editing can occur.
Because text is not a themed widget, the usual state and instate
methods are not available. Instead, use the configuration option
state, setting it to either disabled or normal.
txt['state'] = 'disabled'
Scrolling works the same way as in listboxes. The xscrollcommand
and yscrollcommand configuration options attach the text widget to
horizontal and/or vertical scrollbars, and the xview and yview
methods are called from scrollbars. To ensure that a given line is
visible (i.e., not scrolled out of view), you can use the see index
method, where index is in the form linenum.charnum, e.g., 5.0 for the
first (0-based) character of line 5 (1-based).
Contents
Text widgets do not have a linked variable associated with them like,
for example, entry widgets do. To retrieve the contents of the entire
text widget, call the method get 1.0 end; the 1.0 is an index into the
text, and means the first character of the first line, and end is a
shortcut for the index of the last character in the last line. Other
indices could be provided to retrieve smaller ranges of text if needed.
contents = txt.get('1.0', 'end')
Text can be added to the widget using the insert index string
method; again index is in the form line.char and marks the
character before which text is inserted; use end to add text to the end
of the widget. You can delete a range of text using the delete start
end method, where both start and end are text indices as already
described.
We'll get into the text widget's many additional advanced features
in a later chapter.

--- Strana 123 ---
8.4. Scale
  ttk.Scale
  https://tkdocs.com/man/ttk_scale
A scale widget allows users to choose a numeric value through
direct manipulation.
 
Scale widgets.
Scale widgets are created using the ttk.Scale class:
s = ttk.Scale(parent, orient=HORIZONTAL, length=200, 
from_=1.0, to=100.0)
Because 'from' is a reserved keyword in Python, we need to add a
trailing underscore when using it as a configuration option.
The orient option may be either horizontal or vertical. The length
option, which represents the longer axis of either horizontal or
vertical scales, is specified in screen units (e.g., pixels). You should
also define the range of the number that the scale allows users to

--- Strana 124 ---
choose; to do this, set a floating-point number for each of the from_
and to configuration options.
There are several different ways you can set the current value of
the scale (which must be a floating-point value between the from_
and to values). You can set (or read, to get the current value) the
scale's value configuration option. You can link the scale to a
variable using the variable option. Or, you can call the scale's set
value method to change the value, or the get method to read the
current value.
A command configuration option lets you specify a script to call
whenever the scale is changed. Tk will append the current value of
the scale as a parameter each time it calls this script (we saw a
similar thing with extra parameters being added to scrollbar
callbacks).
# label tied to the same variable as the scale, so auto-
updates 
num = StringVar() 
ttk.Label(root, textvariable=num).grid(column=0, row=0, 
sticky='we') 
 
# label that we'll manually update via the scale's command 
callback 
manual = ttk.Label(root) 
manual.grid(column=0, row=1, sticky='we') 
 
def update_lbl(val): 
   manual['text'] = "Scale at " + val 
 
scale = ttk.Scale(root, orient='horizontal', length=200, 
from_=1.0, to=100.0, variable=num, command=update_lbl) 
scale.grid(column=0, row=2, sticky='we') 
scale.set(20)
  https://tkdocs.com/code/scale.py
As with other themed widgets, you can use the state disabled,
state !disabled, and instate disabled methods to prevent users
from modifying the scale.
As the scale widget does not display the actual values, you may want
to add those separately, e.g., using label widgets.

--- Strana 125 ---

--- Strana 126 ---
8.5. Spinbox
  ttk.Spinbox
  https://tkdocs.com/man/ttk_spinbox
A spinbox widget allows users to choose numbers (or, in fact, items
from an arbitrary list). It does this by combining an entry-like widget
showing the current value with a pair of small up/down arrows, which
can be used to step through the range of possible choices.
The themed spinbox was added in Tk 8.5.9 (released in 2010). If you
must run an older version, there is a spinbox in the classic Tk widgets,
though with a slightly different API.
Spinbox widgets.
Spinbox widgets are created using the ttk.Spinbox class:
spinval = StringVar() 
s = ttk.Spinbox(parent, from_=1.0, to=100.0, 
textvariable=spinval)
Like scale widgets, spinboxes let user choose a number between a
certain range (specified using the from_ and to configuration
options), though through a very different user interface. You can also
specify an increment, which controls how much the value changes
every time you click the up or down button.

--- Strana 127 ---
Like a listbox or combobox, spinboxes can also be used to let
users choose an item from an arbitrary list of strings; these can be
specified using the values configuration option. This works in the
same way it does for comboboxes; specifying a list of values will
override to from_ and to settings.
In their default state, spinboxes allow users to select values either
via the up and down buttons, or by typing them directly into the entry
area that displays the current value. If you'd like to disable the latter
feature, so that only the up and down buttons are available, you can
set the readonly state flag.
s.state(['readonly'])
Like other themed widgets, you can also disable spinboxes, via the
disabled state flag, or check the state via the instate method.
Spinboxes also support validation in the same manner as entry
widgets, using the validate and validatecommand configuration
options.
You might be puzzled about when to choose a scale, listbox,
combobox, entry, or a spinbox. Often, several of these can be used for
the same types of data. The answer really depends on what you want
users to select, platform user interface conventions, and the role the value
plays in your user interface.
For example, both a combobox and a spinbox take up fairly small amounts of
space compared with a listbox. They might make sense for a more peripheral
setting. A more primary and prominent choice in a user interface may warrant
the extra space a listbox occupies. Spinboxes don't make much sense when
items don't have a natural and obvious ordering to them. Be careful about
putting too many items in both comboboxes and spinboxes. This can make it
more time consuming to select an item.
There is a boolean wrap option that determines whether the value
should wrap around when it goes beyond the starting or ending
values. You can also specify a width for the entry holding the current
value of the spinbox.
Again there are choices as to how to set or get the current value
in the spinbox. Normally, you would specify a linked variable with the

--- Strana 128 ---
textvariable configuration option. As usual, any changes to the
variable are reflected in the spinbox, while any changes in the
spinbox are reflected in the linked variable. As well, the set value
and get methods allow you to set or get the value directly.
Spinboxes generate virtual events when users press up
(<<Increment>>) or down (<<Decrement>>). A command configuration
option allows you to provide a callback that is invoked on any
changes.

--- Strana 129 ---
8.6. Progressbar
  ttk.Progressbar
  https://tkdocs.com/man/ttk_progressbar
A progressbar widget provides feedback to users about the
progress of a lengthy operation.
In situations where you can estimate how long the operation will
take to complete, you can display what fraction has already been
completed. Otherwise, you can indicate the operation is continuing,
but without suggesting how much longer it will take.
Progressbar widgets.
Progressbar widgets are created using the ttk.Progressbar class:
p = ttk.Progressbar(parent, orient=HORIZONTAL, length=200, 
mode='determinate')
As with scale widgets, they should be given an orientation
(horizontal or vertical) with the orient configuration option, and
can be given an optional length. The mode configuration option can
be set to either determinate, where the progressbar will indicate
relative progress towards completion, or to indeterminate, where it

--- Strana 130 ---
shows that the operation is still continuing but without showing
relative progress.
Determinate Progress
To use determinate mode, estimate the total number of "steps" the
operation will take to complete. This could be an amount of time but
doesn't need to be. Provide this to the progressbar using the maximum
configuration option. It should be a floating-point number and
defaults to 100.0 (i.e., each step is 1%).
As you proceed through the operation, tell the progressbar how
far along you are with the value configuration option. So this would
start at 0, and then count upwards to the maximum value you have
set.
There are two slight variations on this. First, you can just store the
current value for the progressbar in a variable linked to it by the
progressbar's variable configuration option; that way, when you
change the variable, the progressbar will update. The other alternative is to call
the progressbar's step ?amount? method. This increments the value by the
given amount (defaults to 1.0).
Indeterminate Progress
Use indeterminate mode when you can't easily estimate how far
along in a long-running task you actually are. However, you still want
to provide feedback that the operation is continuing (and that your
program hasn't crashed). At the start of the operation you'll just call
the progressbar's start method. At the end of the operation, call its
stop method. The progressbar will take care of the rest.
Unfortunately, "the progressbar will take care of the rest" isn't
quite so simple. In fact, if you start the progressbar, call a function
that takes several minutes to complete, and then stop the
progressbar, your program will appear frozen the whole time, with
the progressbar not updating. In fact, it will not likely appear
onscreen at all. Yikes!
To learn why that is, and how to address it, the next chapter takes
a deeper dive into Tk's event loop.

--- Strana 131 ---
9. Event Loop
At the end of the last chapter, we explained how to use a progressbar
to provide feedback to users about long-running operations. The
progressbar itself was simple: call it's start method, perform your
operation, and then call it's stop method. Unfortunately, you learned
that if you tried this, your application will most likely appear completely
frozen.
To understand why, we need to revisit our discussion of event
handling, way back in the Tk Concepts chapter. As we've seen, after
we construct an application's initial user interface, it enters the Tk
event loop. In the event loop, it continually processes events, pulled
from the system event queue, usually dozens of times a second. It
watches for mouse or keyboard events, invoking command callbacks
and event bindings as needed.
Less obviously, all screen updates are processed only in the event
loop. For example, you may change the text of a label widget.
However, that change doesn't appear onscreen immediately. Instead,
the widget notifies Tk that it needs to be redrawn. Later on, in between
processing other events, Tk's event loop will ask the widget to redraw
itself. All drawing occurs only in the event loop. The change appears to
happen immediately because the time between making the change to
the widget and the actual redraw in the event loop is so small.

--- Strana 132 ---
Event loop showing application callbacks and screen updates.

--- Strana 133 ---
9.1. Blocking the Event Loop
Where you run into problems is when the event loop is prevented from
processing events for a lengthy period of time. Your application won't
redraw or respond to events and will appear to be frozen. The event
loop is said to be blocked. How can this happen?
Let's start by visualizing the event loop as an execution timeline. In a
normal situation, each deviation from the event loop (callback, screen
update) takes only a fraction of a second before returning control to the
event loop.
Execution timeline for well-behaved event loop.
In our scenario, the whole thing probably got started from an event like
a user pressing a button. So the event loop calls our application code
to handle the event. Our code creates the progressbar, performs the
(lengthy) operations, and stops the progressbar. Only then does our
code return control back to the event loop. No events have been
processed in the meantime. No screen redrawing has occurred.
They've just been piling up in the event queue.

--- Strana 134 ---
Lengthy callback blocking the event loop.
To prevent blocking the event loop, it's essential that event handlers
execute quickly and return control back to the event loop.
If you do have a long-running operation to perform, or anything like
network I/O that could potentially take a long time, there are a few
different approaches you can take.
For the more technically-inclined, Tk uses a single-threaded, event-driven
programming model. All the GUI code, the event loop, and your
application run within the same thread. Because of this, any calls or
computations that block event handlers are highly discouraged. Some other GUI
toolkits use different models that allow for blocking code, runs the GUI and event
handlers in separate threads from application code, etc. Attempting to shoehorn
these models into Tk can be a recipe for frustration and lead to fragile and hacky
code. If you respect Tk's model rather than try to fight with it, you won't run into
problems.

--- Strana 135 ---
9.2. One Step at a Time
If possible, the very best thing you can do is break your operation into
very small steps, each of which can execute very quickly. You let the
event loop be responsible for when the next step occurs. That way, the
event loop continues to run, processing regular events, updating the
screen, and, in between all that, calling your code to perform the next
step of the operation.
To do this, we make use of timer events. Our program can ask the
event loop to generate one of these events at some time in the future.
As part of its regular work, when the event loop reaches that time, it will
call back into our code to handle the event. Our code would perform
the next step of the operation. It then schedules another timer event for
the next step of the operation and immediately returns control back to
the event loop.
Breaking up a large operation into small steps tied together with timer events.
Tk's after command can be used to generate timer events. You
provide the number of milliseconds to wait until the event should be
fired. It may happen later than that if Tk is busy processing other
events but won't happen before that. You can also ask that an idle
event be generated; it will fire when no other events in the queue need
to be processed. (Tk's screen updates and redraws occur in the
context of idle events.) You can find more details on after in the
reference manual.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/after

--- Strana 136 ---
In the following example, we'll perform a long operation that is broken
up into 20 small steps. While this operation is being performed, we'll
update a progressbar, and also allow users to interrupt the operation.
def start(): 
    b.configure(text='Stop', command=stop) 
    l['text'] = 'Working...' 
    global interrupt; interrupt = False 
    root.after(1, step) 
     
def stop(): 
    global interrupt; interrupt = True 
     
def step(count=0): 
    p['value'] = count 
    if interrupt: 
        result(None) 
        return 
    root.after(100)  # next step in our operation; don't take 
too long! 
    if count == 20:  # done! 
        result(42) 
        return 
    root.after(1, lambda: step(count+1)) 
     
def result(answer): 
    p['value'] = 0 
    b.configure(text='Start!', command=start) 
    l['text'] = "Answer: " + str(answer) if answer else "No 
Answer" 
     
f = ttk.Frame(root); f.grid() 
b = ttk.Button(f, text="Start!", command=start); 
b.grid(column=1, row=0, padx=5, pady=5) 
l = ttk.Label(f, text="No Answer"); l.grid(column=0, row=0, 
padx=5, pady=5) 
p = ttk.Progressbar(f, orient="horizontal", mode="determinate", 
maximum=20);  
p.grid(column=0, row=1, padx=5, pady=5)
  https://tkdocs.com/code/longrunning.py
To interrupt the process, we've just set a global variable, which is checked
next time the timer event fires. Another option would be to cancel the
pending timer event. When we create the timer event, it returns an id

--- Strana 137 ---
number to uniquely identify the pending timer. To cancel it, we can call the
after_cancel method, passing it that unique id.
You'll also note that we used a blocking form of after to simulate performing our
operation. Rather than scheduling an event to occur in future, the call blocks,
waiting a given time before returning. It works the same as a sleep system call.

--- Strana 138 ---
9.3. Asynchronous I/O
Timer events take care of breaking up a long-running computation,
where you know that each step can be guaranteed to complete quickly
so that your handler will return to the event loop. What if you have an
operation that may not complete quickly? This can happen when you
make a variety of calls to the operating system. The most common is
when we're doing some kind of I/O, whether writing a file,
communicating with a database, or retrieving data from a remote web
server.
Most I/O calls are blocking. They don't return until the operation
completes (or fails). What we want to use instead are non-blocking or
asynchronous I/O calls. When you make an asynchronous I/O call, it
returns immediately, before the operation is completed. Your code can
continue running, or in this case, return back to the event loop. Later
on, when the I/O operation completes, your program is notified and can
process the result of the I/O operation.
If this sounds like treating I/O as another type of event, you're
exactly right. In fact, it's also called event-driven I/O.
In Python, asynchronous I/O is provided through the asyncio
module, as well as many other modules that are layered on top of it.
All asyncio applications rely heavily on an event loop. How
convenient, Tkinter has a great event loop! Unfortunately, the asyncio
event loop and the Tkinter event loop are not the same. You can't really
have both of them running at the same time, at least within the same
thread (well, you can have one call repeatedly into the other, but it's
pretty hacky and fragile).
My recommendation: keep Tkinter in the main thread, and spin off
your asyncio event loops in another thread.
Your application code, running in the main thread, may need to
coordinate with the asyncio event loop running in the other thread. You
can call a function running in the asyncio event loop thread (even from
the Tkinter event loop, e.g., in a widget callback) using the asyncio
call_soon_threadsafe method. To call Tkinter from the asyncio event
loop, keep reading.

--- Strana 139 ---
9.4. Threads or Processes
Sometimes it's either not possible or practical to break up a long-
running computation into discrete pieces that each run quickly. Or you
may be using a library that doesn't support asynchronous operations.
Or, like Python's asyncio, it doesn't play nice with Tk's event loop. In
cases like these, to keep your Tk GUI responsive, you'll need to move
those time-consuming operations or library calls out of your event
handlers and run them somewhere else. Threads, or even other
processes, can help with that.
Running tasks in threads, communicating with them, etc. is beyond
the scope of this book. However, there are some restrictions on using
Tk with threads that you should be aware of. The main rule is that you
must only make Tk calls from the thread where you loaded Tk.
Tkinter goes to great lengths internally so you make Tkinter calls
from multiple threads. It routes them to the main thread (the one that
created the Tk instance). It mostly works, but not always. Despite all it
tries to do, I highly recommend you make all Tkinter calls from a single
thread.
If you need to communicate from another thread to the thread
running Tkinter, keep it as simple as possible. Use event_generate to
post a virtual event to the Tkinter event queue, and then bind to that
event in your code.
It can be even more complicated. The Tcl/Tk libraries can be built
either with or without thread support. If you have more than one thread
in your application, make sure you're running in a threaded build. If
you're unsure, check the Tcl variable tcl_platform(threaded); it should
be 1, not 0.
>>> tkinter.Tcl().eval('set tcl_platform(threaded)')
Most everyone should be running threaded builds. The ability to create
non-threaded builds in Tcl/Tk is likely to go away in future. If you're using
a non-threaded build with threaded code, consider this a bug in your
application, not a challenge to make it work.

--- Strana 140 ---
9.5. Nested Event Processing
The previous three approaches are the correct ways to handle long-
running operations while still keeping you Tk GUI responsive. What
they have in common is a single event loop that continuously
processes events of all kinds. That event loop will call event handlers
in your application code, which do their thing and quickly return.
There is one other way. Within your long-running operation, you can
invoke the event loop to process a bunch of events. You can do this
with a single command, update. There's no messing around with timer
events or asynchronous I/O. Instead, you just sprinkle some update
calls throughout your operation. If you want to only keep the screen
redrawing but not process other events, there's even an option for that
(update_idletasks).
This approach is seductively easy. And if you're lucky, it might work.
At least for a little while. But sooner or later, you're going to run into
serious difficulties trying to do things that way. Something won't be
updating, event handlers aren't getting called that should be, events
are going missing or being fired out of order, or worse. You'll turn your
program's logic inside out and tear your hair out trying to make it work
again.
When you use update, you're not returning control back to the running
event loop. You're effectively starting a new event loop nested within the
existing one. Remember, the event loop follows a single thread of
execution: no threads, no coroutines. If you're not careful, you're going to end up
with event loops called from within event loops called from... well, you get the
idea. If you even realize you're doing this, unwinding the event loops (each of
which may have different conditions to terminate it) will be an interesting exercise.
The reality won't match with your mental model of a simple event loop dispatching
events one at a time, independent of every other event. It's a classic example of
fighting against Tk's model. In very specific circumstances, it's possible to make it
work. In practice, you're asking for trouble. Don't say you haven't been warned...

--- Strana 141 ---
Nested event loops... this way madness lies.

--- Strana 142 ---
10. Menus
This chapter describes how to handle menubars and popup menus in
Tk. For a polished application, these are areas you particularly want
to pay attention to. Menus need special care if you want your
application to fit in with other applications on your users' platform.
Speaking of which, the recommended way to figure out which
platform you're running on is:
root.tk.call('tk', 'windowingsystem')     # returns x11, win32 
or aqua
Tkinter does not provide a direct equivalent to this call. However, it is
possible to directly execute an arbitrary Tcl-based Tk command, using
the tk.call() method available on any Tkinter widget. Here, we're
invoking the Tcl/Tk command tk windowingsystem.
This is more useful than examining global variables like tcl_platform or
sys.platform, and older checks that used these methods should be
reviewed. While in the olden days, there was a pretty good correlation
between platform and windowing system, it's less true today. For example, if
your platform is identified on Unix, that might mean Linux under X11, macOS
under Aqua, or even macOS under X11.

--- Strana 143 ---
10.1. Menubars
In this section, we'll look at menubars: how to create them, what goes
in them, how they're used, etc.
Properly designing a menubar and its set of menus is beyond the
scope of this book. However, if you're creating an application for
someone other than yourself, here is a bit of advice. First, if you find
yourself with many menus, very long menus, or deeply nested
menus, you may need to rethink how your user interface is organized.
Second, many people use the menus to explore what the program
can do, particularly when they're first learning it, so try to ensure
major features are accessible by the menus. Finally, for each platform
you're targeting, become familiar with how applications use menus,
and consult the platform's human interface guidelines for full details
about design, terminology, shortcuts, and much more. This is an area
you will likely have to customize for each platform.
Menubars.
You'll notice on some recent Linux distributions that many applications
show their menus at the top of the screen when active, rather than in
the window itself. Tk does not yet support this style of menus.
Menu Widgets and Hierarchy

--- Strana 144 ---
  Menu
  https://tkdocs.com/man/menu
Menus are implemented as widgets in Tk, just like buttons and
entries. Each menu widget consists of a number of different items in
the menu. Items have various attributes, such as the text to display
for the item, a keyboard accelerator, and a command to invoke.
Menus are arranged in a hierarchy. The menubar is itself a menu
widget. It has several items ("File," "Edit," etc.), each of which is a
submenu containing more items. These items can include things like
the "Open..." command in a "File" menu, but also separators between
other items. It can even have items that open up their own submenu
(so-called cascading menus). As you'd expect from other things
you've seen already in Tk, anytime you have a submenu, it must be
created as a child of its parent menu.
Menus are part of the classic Tk widgets; there is not presently a
menu in the themed Tk widget set.
Before you Start
It's essential to put the following line in your application somewhere
before you start creating menus.
root.option_add('*tearOff', FALSE)
Without it, each of your menus (on Windows and X11) will start with
what looks like a dashed line and allows you to "tear off" the menu, so
it appears in its own window. You should eliminate tear-off menus
from your application as they're not a part of any modern user
interface style.
This is a throw-back to the Motif-style X11 that Tk's original look and
feel were based on. Get rid of them unless your application is designed
to run only on that old box collecting dust in the basement. We'll all look
forward to a future version of Tk where this misguided paean to backward
compatibility is removed.
While on the topic of ancient history, the option_add bit uses the option
database. On X11 systems, this provided a standardized way to customize

--- Strana 145 ---
certain elements of user interfaces through text-based configuration files. It's no
longer used today. Older Tk programs may use the option command internally
to separate style configuration options from widget creation code. This all pre-
dated themed Tk styles, which should be used for that purpose today. However,
it's somehow fitting to use the obsolete option database to automatically remove
the obsolete tear-off menus.
Creating a Menubar
In Tk, menubars are associated with individual windows; each
toplevel window can have at most one menubar. On Windows and
many X11 window managers, this is visually obvious, as the menus
are part of each window, sitting just below the title bar at the top.
On macOS, though, there is a single menubar along the top of the
screen, shared by each window. As far as your Tk program is
concerned, each window still does have its own menubar. As you
switch between windows, Tk ensures that the correct menubar is
displayed. If you don't specify a menubar for a particular window, Tk
will use the menubar associated with the root window; you'll have
noticed by now that this is automatically created for you when your Tk
application starts.
Because all windows have a menubar on macOS, it's important to
define one, either for each window or a fallback menubar for the root
window. Otherwise, you'll end up with the "built-in" menubar, which
contains menus that are only intended for typing commands directly into the
interpreter.
To create a menubar for a window, first, create a menu widget. Then,
use the window's menu configuration option to attach the menu widget
to the window.
win = Toplevel(root) 
menubar = Menu(win) 
win['menu'] = menubar
You can use the same menubar for more than one window. In other
words, you can specify the same menubar as the menu configuration
option for several toplevel windows. This is particularly useful on

--- Strana 146 ---
Windows and X11, where you may want a window to include a menu, but don't
necessarily need to juggle different menus in your application. However, if the
contents or state of menu items depends on what's going on in the active
window, you'll have to manage this yourself.
This is truly ancient history, but menubars used to be implemented by
creating a frame widget containing the menu items and packing it into
the top of the window like any other widget. Hopefully, you don't have
any code or documentation that still does this.
Adding Menus
We now have a menubar, but that's pretty useless without some
menus to go in it. So again, we'll create a menu widget for each
menu, each one a child of the menubar. We'll then add them all to the
menubar.
menubar = Menu(parent) 
menu_file = Menu(menubar) 
menu_edit = Menu(menubar) 
menubar.add_cascade(menu=menu_file, label='File') 
menubar.add_cascade(menu=menu_edit, label='Edit')
The add_cascade method adds a menu item, which itself is a menu (a
submenu).
Adding Menu Items
Now that we have a couple of menus in our menubar, we can add a
few items to each menu.
Command Items
Regular menu items are called command items in Tk. We'll see some
other types of menu items shortly. Notice that menu items are part of
the menu itself; we don't have to create a separate menu widget for
each one (submenus being the exception).

--- Strana 147 ---
menu_file = Menu(menubarmenu_file.add_command(label='New', 
command=newFile) 
menu_file.add_command(label='Open...', command=openFile) 
menu_file.add_command(label='Close', command=closeFile)
On macOS, the ellipsis ("...") is actually a special character, more tightly
spaced than three periods in a row. Tk takes care of substituting this
character for you automatically.
Each menu item has associated with it several configuration options,
analogous to widget configuration options. Each type of menu item
has a different set of available options. Cascade menu items have a
menu option used to specify the submenu, command menu items have
a command option to specify the command to invoke when the item is
chosen. Both have a label option to specify the text to display for the
item.
Submenus
We've already seen cascade menu items used to add a menu to a
menubar. Not surprisingly, if you want to add a submenu to an
existing menu, you also use a cascade menu item in exactly the same
way. You might use this to build build a "recent files" submenu, for
example.
menu_recent = Menu(menu_file) 
menu_file.add_cascade(menu=menu_recent, label='Open Recent') 
for f in recent_files: 
    menu_recent.add_command(label=os.path.basename(f), 
command=lambda: openFile(f))
  https://tkdocs.com/code/recentfiles.py
Separators
A third type of menu item is the separator, which produces the
dividing line you often see between different menu items.
menu_file.add_separator()

--- Strana 148 ---
Checkbutton and Radiobutton Items
Finally, there are also checkbutton and radiobutton menu items that
behave analogously to checkbutton and radiobutton widgets. These
menu items have a variable associated with them. Depending on its
value, an indicator (i.e., checkmark or selected radiobutton) may be
shown next to its label.
check = StringVar() 
menu_file.add_checkbutton(label='Check', variable=check, 
onvalue=1, offvalue=0) 
radio = StringVar() 
menu_file.add_radiobutton(label='One', variable=radio, 
value=1) 
menu_file.add_radiobutton(label='Two', variable=radio, 
value=2)
When a user selects a checkbutton item that is not already checked,
it sets the associated variable to the value in onvalue. Selecting an
item that is already checked sets it to the value in offvalue. Selecting
a radiobutton item sets the associated variable to the value in value.
Both types of items also react to any changes you make to the
associated variable.
Like command items, checkbutton and radiobutton menu items
support a command configuration option that is invoked when the menu
item is chosen. The associated variable and the menu item's state
are updated before the callback is invoked.
Radiobutton menu items are not part of the Windows or macOS human
interface guidelines. On those platforms, the item's indicator is a
checkmark, as it would be for a checkbutton item. The semantics still
work. It's a good way to select between multiple items since it will show one of
them selected (checked).
Manipulating Menu Items
As well as adding items to the end of menus, you can also insert
them in the middle of menus via the insert index type ?option

--- Strana 149 ---
value...? method; here index is the position (0..n-1) of the item you
want to insert before. You can also delete one or more menu items
susing the delete index ?endidx? method.
menu_recent.delete(0, 'end')
Like most everything in Tk, you can look at or change the value of an
item's options at any time. Items are referred to via an index. Usually,
this is a number (0..n-1) indicating the item's position in the menu.
You can also specify the label of the menu item (or, in fact, a "glob-
style" pattern to match against the item's label).
print( menu_file.entrycget(0, 'label')) # get label of top 
entry in menu 
print( menu_file.entryconfigure(0))     # show all options for 
an item
State
You can disable a menu item so that users cannot select it. This can
be done via the state option, setting it to the value disabled. Use a
value of normal to re-enable the item.
Menus should always reflect the current state of your application. If
a menu item is not presently relevant (e.g., the "Copy" item is only
applicable if something in your application is selected), you should
disable it. When your application state changes so that the item is
applicable, make sure to enable it.
menu_file.entryconfigure('Close', state=DISABLED)
Sometimes you may have menu items whose name changes in
response to application state changes, rather than the menu item
being disabled. For example, A web browser might have a menu item
that changes between "Show Bookmarks" and "Hide Bookmarks" as
a bookmarks pane is hidden or displayed.
menu_bookmarks.entryconfigure(3, label="Hide Bookmarks")

--- Strana 150 ---
As your program grows complex, it's easy to miss enabling or disabling
some items. One strategy is to centralize all the menu state changes in
one routine. Whenever there is a state change in your application, it
should call this routine. It will examine the current state and update menus
accordingly. The same code can also handle toolbars, status bars, or other user
interface components.
Accelerator Keys
The accelerator option is used to indicate a keyboard equivalent that
corresponds to a menu item. This does not actually create the
accelerator, but only displays it next to the menu item. You still need
to create an event binding for the accelerator yourself.
Remember that event bindings can be set on individual widgets, all
widgets of a certain type, the toplevel window containing the widget
you're interested in, or the application as a whole. As menu bars are
associated with individual windows, the event bindings you create will usually
be on the toplevel window the menu is associated with.
Accelerators are very platform-specific, not only in terms of which
keys are used for what operation, but what modifier keys are used for
menu accelerators (e.g., on macOS, it is the "Command" key, on
Windows and X11, it is usually the "Control" key). Examples of valid
accelerator options are Command-N, Shift+Ctrl+X, and Command-Option-
B. Commonly used modifiers include Control, Ctrl, Option, Opt, Alt,
Shift, "Command, Cmd, and Meta.
On macOS, modifier names are automatically mapped to the different
modifier icons that appear in menus, i.e., Shift ⇒ ⇧, Command ⇒ ⌘,
Control ⇒ ⌃, and Option ⇒ ⌥.
menu_bookmarks.entryconfigure(3, label="Hide Bookmarks")
Underline

--- Strana 151 ---
All platforms support keyboard traversal of the menubar via the arrow
keys. On Windows and X11, you can also use other keys to jump to
particular menus or menu items. The keys that trigger these jumps
are indicated by an underlined letter in the menu item's label. To add
one of these to a menu item, use the underline configuration option
for the item. Its value should be the index of the character you'd like
underlined (from 0 to the length of the string - 1). Unlike with
accelerator keys, the menu will watch for the keystroke, so no
separate event binding is needed.
m.add_command(label='Path Browser', underline=5)  # underline 
"B"
Images
It is also possible to use images in menu items, either beside the
menu item's label, or replacing it altogether. To do this, use the image
and compound options, which work just like in label widgets. The value
for image must be a Tk image object, while compound can have the
values bottom, center, left, right, top, or none.
Menu Virtual Events
Platform conventions for menus suggest standard menus and items
that should be available in most applications. For example, most
applications have an "Edit" menu, with menu items for "Copy,"
"Paste," etc. Tk widgets like entry or text will react appropriately when
those menu items are chosen. But if you're building your own menus,
how do you make that work? What command would you assign to a
"Copy" menu item?
Tk handles this with virtual events. As you'll recall from the Tk
Concepts chapter, these are high-level application events, as
opposed to low-level operating system events. Tk's widgets will watch
for specific events. When you build your menus, you can generate
those events rather than directly invoking a callback function. Your
application can create event bindings to watch for those events too.

--- Strana 152 ---
Some developers create virtual events for every item in their menus. They
generate those events instead of calling routines in their own code
directly. It's one way of splitting off your user interface code from the
rest of your application. Remember that even if you do this, you'll still
need code that enables and disables menu items, adjusts their labels, etc. in
response to application state changes.
Here's a minimal example showing how we'd add two items to an
"Edit" menu, the standard "Paste" item, and an application-specific
"Find..." item that will open a dialog to find or search for something.
We'll include an entry widget so that we can check that "Paste"
works.
from tkinter import * 
from tkinter import ttk, messagebox 
 
root = Tk() 
ttk.Entry(root).grid() 
m = Menu(root) 
m_edit = Menu(m) 
m.add_cascade(menu=m_edit, label="Edit") 
m_edit.add_command(label="Paste", command=lambda: 
root.focus_get().event_generate("<<Paste>>")) 
m_edit.add_command(label="Find...", command=lambda: 
root.event_generate("<<OpenFindDialog>>")) 
root['menu'] = m 
 
def launchFindDialog(*args): 
    messagebox.showinfo(message="I hope you find what you're 
looking for!") 
     
root.bind("<<OpenFindDialog>>", launchFindDialog) 
root.mainloop()
  https://tkdocs.com/code/menu.py
When you generate a virtual event, you need to specify the widget that
the event should be sent to. We want the "Paste" event to be sent to the
widget with the keyboard focus (usually indicated by a focus ring). You
can determine which widget has the keyboard focus using the focus command.
Try it out, choosing the Paste item when the window is first opened (when
there's no focus) and after clicking on the entry (making it the focus). Notice the

--- Strana 153 ---
entry handles the <<Paste>> event itself. There's no need for us to create an
event binding.
The <<OpenFindDialog>> event is sent to the root window, which is where we
create an event binding. If we had multiple toplevel windows, we'd send it to a
specific window.
Tk predefines the following virtual events: <<Clear>>, <<Copy>>,
<<Cut>>, <<Paste>>, <<PasteSelection>>, <<PrevWindow>>, <<Redo>>,
and <<Undo>>. For additional information, see the event command
reference.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/event

--- Strana 154 ---
10.2. Platform Menus
Each platform has a few menus in every menubar that are handled
specially by Tk.
macOS
You've probably noticed that Tk on macOS supplies its own default
menubar. It includes a menu named after the program being run (in
this case, your programming language's shell, "Python"), a File menu,
and standard Edit, Windows, and Help menus, all stocked with
various menu items.
You can override this menubar in your own program, but to get the
results you want, you'll need to follow some particular steps (in some
cases, in a particular order).
Starting at Tk 8.5.13, the handling of special menus on macOS changed
due to the underlying Tk code migrating from the obsolete Carbon API
to Cocoa. If you're seeing duplicate menu names, missing items, things
you didn't put there, etc. review this section carefully.
The first thing to know is that if you don't specify a menubar for a
window (or its parent window, e.g., the root window), you'll end up
with the default menubar Tk supplies, which unless you're just
mucking around on your own, is almost certainly not what you want.
The Application Menu
Every menubar starts with the system-wide apple icon menu. To the
right of that is a menu for the frontmost application. It is always
named after the binary being run. If you do supply a menubar, at the
time the menubar is attached to the window, if there is not a specially
named .apple menu (see below), Tk will provide its default
application menu. It will contain an "About Tcl & Tk" item, followed by
the standard menu items: preferences, the services submenu,
hide/show items, and quit. Again, you don't want this.

--- Strana 155 ---
If you supply your own .apple menu, when the menubar is
attached to the window, Tk will add the standard items (preferences
and onward) onto the end of any items you have added. Perfect!
Items you add after the menubar is attached to the window will
appear after the quit item, which, again, you don't want.
The application menu, which we're dealing with here, is distinct from the
apple menu (the one with the apple icon, just to the left of the
application menu). Despite that, we really mean the application menu,
even though Tk still refer to it as the "apple" menu. This is a holdover from pre-
OS X days when these sorts of items did go in the actual apple menu, and there
was no separate application menu.
So, in other words, in your program, make sure you:
1. Create a menubar for each window or the root window. Do not
attach the menubar to the window yet!
2. Add a menu to the menubar named .apple. It will be used as the
application menu.
3. The menu will automatically be named the same as the
application binary; if you want to change this, rename (or make a
copy of) the binary used to run your script.
4. Add the items you want to appear at the top of the application
menu, i.e., an "About yourapp" item, followed by a separator.
5. After you have done all this, you can then attach the menubar to
your window via the window's menu configuration option.
win = Toplevel(root) 
menubar = Menu(win) 
appmenu = Menu(menubar, name='apple') 
menubar.add_cascade(menu=appmenu) 
appmenu.add_command(label='About My Application') 
appmenu.add_separator() 
win['menu'] = menubar
While usually, Tkinter chooses a widget pathname for us, we've had to
explicitly provide one (apple) using the name option when creating the
application menu.

--- Strana 156 ---
Handling the Preferences Menu Item
As you've noticed, the application menu always includes a
"Preferences..." menu item. If your application has a preferences
dialog, this menu item should open it. If your application has no
preferences dialog, this menu item should be disabled, which it is by
default.
To hook up your preferences dialog, you'll need to define a Tcl
procedure named ::tk::mac::ShowPreferences. This will be called
when the Preferences menu item is chosen; if the procedure is not
defined, the menu item will be disabled.
def showMyPreferencesDialog(): 
    .... 
     
root.createcommand('tk::mac::ShowPreferences', 
showMyPreferencesDialog)
Providing a Help Menu
Like the application menu, any help menu you add to your own
menubar is treated specially on macOS. As with the application menu
that needed a special name (.apple), the help menu must be given
the name .help. Also, like the application menu, the help menu
should also be added before the menubar is attached to the window.
The help menu will include the standard macOS search box to
search help, as well as an item named "yourapp Help." As with the
name of the application menu, this comes from your program's
executable and cannot be changed. Similar to how preferences
dialogs are handled, to respond to this help item, you need to define
a Tcl procedure named ::tk::mac::ShowHelp. If this procedure is not
defined, it will not disable the menu item. Instead, it will generate an
error when the help item is chosen.
If you don't want to include help, don't add a help menu to the menubar,
and none will be shown.

--- Strana 157 ---
Unlike on X11 and earlier versions of Tk on macOS, the Help menu will not
automatically be put at the end of the menubar, so ensure it is the last
menu added.
You can also add other items to the help menu. These will appear
after the application help item.
helpmenu = Menu(menubar, name='help') 
menubar.add_cascade(menu=helpmenu, label='Help') 
root.createcommand('tk::mac::ShowHelp', ...)
Providing a Window Menu
On macOS, a "Window" menu contains items like minimize, zoom,
bring all to front, etc. It also includes a list of currently open windows.
Before that list, other application-specific items are sometimes
provided.
By providing a menu named .window, this standard window menu
will be added. Tk automatically keeps it in sync with all your toplevel
windows, without any extra code on your part. You can also add any
application-specific commands to this menu. These appear before the
list of your windows.
windowmenu = Menu(menubar, name='window') 
menubar.add_cascade(menu=windowmenu, label='Window')
Other Menu Handlers
You saw previously how handling certain standard menu items
required 
you 
to 
define 
Tcl 
callback 
procedures, 
e.g.,
tk::mac::ShowPreferences and tk::mac::ShowHelp.
There are several other callbacks that you can define. For
example, you might intercept the Quit menu item, prompting users to
save their changes before quitting. Here is the complete list:
tk::mac::ShowPreferences:
Called when the "Preferences..." menu item is selected.

--- Strana 158 ---
tk::mac::ShowHelp:
Called to display main online help for the application.
tk::mac::Quit:
Called when the Quit menu item is selected, when a user is
trying to shut down the system etc.
tk::mac::OnHide:
Called when your application has been hidden.
tk::mac::OnShow:
Called when your application is shown after being hidden.
tk::mac::OpenApplication:
Called when your application is first opened.
tk::mac::ReopenApplication:
Called when a user "reopens" your already-running application
(e.g. clicks on it in the Dock)
tk::mac::OpenDocument:
Called when the Finder wants the application to open one or
more documents (e.g. that were dropped on it). The procedure is
passed a list of pathnames of files to be opened.
tk::mac::PrintDocument:
As with OpenDocument, but the documents should be printed
rather than opened.
For additional information, see the tk_mac command reference.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/tk_mac
Windows
On Windows, each window has a "System" menu at the top left of the
window frame, with a small icon for your application. It contains items
like "Close", "Minimize", etc. In Tk, if you create a system menu, you
can add new items that will appear below the standard items.
sysmenu = Menu(menubar, name='system') 
menubar.add_cascade(menu=sysmenu)
While usually, Tkinter will choose a widget pathname for us, we've had
to explicitly provide one with the name system; this is the cue that Tk
needs to recognize it as the system menu.

--- Strana 159 ---
X11
On X11, if you create a help menu, Tk will ensure that it is always the
last menu in the menubar.
menu_help = Menu(menubar, name='help') 
menubar.add_cascade(menu=menu_help, label='Help')
While usually, Tkinter will choose a widget pathname for us, we've had
to explicitly provide one with the name help; this is the cue that Tk
needs to recognize it as the help menu.

--- Strana 160 ---
10.3. Contextual Menus
Contextual menus ("popup" menus) are typically invoked by a right
mouse button click on an object in the application. A menu pops up at
the location of the mouse cursor. Users can then select an items from
the menu (or click outside it to dismiss it without choosing any item).
To create a contextual menu, we'll use exactly the same
commands we did to create menus in the menubar. Typically, we'd
create one menu with several command items in it, and potentially
some cascade menu items and their associated menus.
To activate the menu, users will perform a contextual menu click.
We'll have to create an event binding to capture that click. That,
however, can mean different things on different platforms. On
Windows and X11, this is the right mouse button being clicked (the
third mouse button). On macOS, this is either a click of the left (or
only) button with the control key held down or a right-click on a multi-
button mouse. Unlike Windows and X11, macOS refers to this as the
second mouse button, not the third, so that's the event we'll see in
our program.
Most earlier programs that have used popup menus assumed it was
only "button 3" they needed to worry about.
Besides capturing the correct contextual menu event, we also need to
capture the mouse's location. It turns out we need to do this relative
to the entire screen (global coordinates) and not local to the window
or widget you clicked on (local coordinates). The %X and %Y
substitutions in Tk's event binding system will capture those for us.
The last step is simply to tell the menu to pop up at the particular
location, via the post method. Here's an example of the whole
process, using a popup menu on the application's main window.
from tkinter import * 
root = Tk() 
menu = Menu(root) 
for i in ('One', 'Two', 'Three'): 

--- Strana 161 ---
    menu.add_command(label=i) 
if (root.tk.call('tk', 'windowingsystem')=='aqua'): 
    root.bind('<2>', lambda e: menu.post(e.x_root, e.y_root)) 
    root.bind('<Control-1>', lambda e: menu.post(e.x_root, 
e.y_root)) 
else: 
    root.bind('<3>', lambda e: menu.post(e.x_root, e.y_root)) 
root.mainloop()
  https://tkdocs.com/code/contextmenu.py

--- Strana 162 ---
11. Windows and Dialogs
Everything we've done up until now has been in a single window. In
this chapter, we'll cover how to use multiple windows, changing
various attributes of windows, and use some of the standard dialog
boxes that are available in Tk.

--- Strana 163 ---
11.1. Creating and Destroying Windows
We've seen that all Tk programs start out with a root toplevel window,
and then widgets are created as children of that root window.
Creating new toplevel windows works almost exactly the same as
creating new widgets.
Toplevel windows are created using the Toplevel class:
t = Toplevel(parent)
Note: Toplevels are part of the classic Tk widgets, not the themed
widgets.
Unlike regular widgets, we don't have to grid a toplevel for it to
appear onscreen. Once we've created a new toplevel, we can create
other widgets as children of that toplevel, and grid them inside the
toplevel. The new toplevel behaves exactly like the automatically
created root window.
To destroy a window, use its destroy method:
window.destroy()
Note that you can use destroy on any widget, not just a toplevel
window. When you destroy a window, all windows (widgets) that are
children of that window are also destroyed. Be careful! If you destroy
the root window (that all other widgets are descended from), that will
terminate your application.
In a typical document-oriented application, we want to be able to close
any windows while leaving the others open. In that case, we may want
to create a new toplevel for every window, and not put anything directly
inside the root window at all. While we can't just destroy the root window, we
can remove it entirely from the screen using its withdraw method, which we'll
see shortly.

--- Strana 164 ---
11.2. Window Behavior and Styles
There are lots of things about how windows behave and how they
look that can be changed.
Window Title
To examine or change the title of the window:
oldtitle = window.title() 
window.title('New title')
Size and Location
In Tk, a window's position and size on the screen are known as its
geometry. 
A 
full 
geometry 
specification 
looks 
like 
this:
widthxheight±x±y.
Width and height (usually in pixels) are pretty self-explanatory. The
x (horizontal position) is specified with a leading plus or minus, so +25
means the left edge of the window should be 25 pixels from the left
edge of the screen, while -50 means the right edge of the window
should be 50 pixels from the right edge of the screen. Similarly, a y
(vertical) position of +10 means the top edge of the window should be
ten pixels below the top of the screen, while -100 means the bottom
edge of the window should be 100 pixels above the bottom of the
screen.
Geometry specifies the actual coordinates on the screen. It doesn't
make allowances for systems like macOS with a menubar along the top
or a dock along the bottom. So specifying a position of +0+0 would
actually place the top part of the window under the system menu bar. It's a good
idea to leave a healthy margin (at least 30 pixels) from the screen's edge.
Screen positions can be different than you might expect when you have multiple
monitors on your system. We'll cover that shortly.

--- Strana 165 ---
Here is an example of changing the size and position. It places the
window towards the top righthand corner of the screen:
window.geometry('300x200-5+40')
You can retrieve the current geometry the same way; just don't
provide a new geometry value. However, if you try it immediately after
changing the geometry, you'll find it doesn't match. Remember that all
drawing effectively occurs in the background, in response to idle
times via the event loop. Until that drawing occurs, the internal
geometry of the window won't be updated. If you do want to force
things to update immediately, you can.
window.update_idletasks() 
print(window.geometry())
We've seen that the window defaults to the size requested by the
widgets that are gridded into it. If we're creating and adding new widgets
interactively in the interpreter, or if our program adds new widgets in
response to other events, the window size adjusts. This behavior continues until
either we explicitly provide the window's geometry as above or a user resizes
the window. At that point, even if we add more widgets, the window won't
change size. You'll want to be sure you're using all of grid's features (e.g.,
sticky, weight) to make everything fit nicely.
Resizing Behavior
By default, toplevel windows, including the root window, can be
resized by users. However, sometimes you may want to prevent
users from resizing the window. You can do this via the resizable
method. It's first parameter controls whether users can change the
width, and the second if they can change the height. So to disable all
resizing:
window.resizable(FALSE,FALSE)

--- Strana 166 ---
If a window is resizable, you can specify a minimum and/or maximum
size that you'd like the window's size constrained to (again,
parameters are width and height):
window.minsize(200,100) 
window.maxsize(500,500)
You saw earlier how to obtain the current size of the window via its
geometry. Wondering how large it would be if you didn't specify its
geometry, or a user didn't resize it? You can retrieve the window's
requested size, i.e., how much space it requests from the geometry
manager. Like with drawing, geometry calculations are only done at
idle time in the event loop, so you won't get a useful response until
the widget has appeared onscreen.
window.winfo_reqwidth()   # or winfo_reqheight
You can use the reqwidth and reqheight methods on any widget, not
just toplevel windows. There are other winfo methods you can call on
any widget, such as width and height, to get the actual (not requested)
width and height. For more, see the winfo command reference.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/winfo
Intercepting the Close Button
Most windows have a close button in their title bar. By default, Tk will
destroy the window if users click on that button. You can, however,
provide a callback that will be run instead. A common use is to
prompt the user to save an open file if modifications have been made.
window.protocol("WM_DELETE_WINDOW", callback)
The somewhat obscurely-named WM_DELETE_PROTOCOL originated with
X11 window manager protocols.

--- Strana 167 ---
Transparency
Windows can be made partially transparent by specifying an alpha
channel, ranging from 0.0 (fully transparent) to 1.0 (fully opqaque).
window.attributes("-alpha", 0.5)
Tkinter's wrapper to the underlying wm attributes command doesn't do
any interpretation of options, handle keyword arguments, etc.
On macOS, you can additionally specify a -transparent attribute
(using the same mechanism as with -alpha), which allows you to
make the background of the window transparent, and remove the
window's show. You should also set the background configuration
option for the window and any frames to the color ssytemTransparent.
Full Screen
You can make a window expand to take up the full screen:
window.attributes("-fullscreen", 1)
Other macOS-Specific Attributes
In addition to the -transparent attribute described above, macOS
windows boast some additional attributes.
The (red) close widget in the title bar can indicate that the content
inside the window has been modified (e.g., the file needs to be
saved). Set the -modified attribute to 1 to indicate this, or 0 to remove
the modified indicator.
You can draw users' attention to the window by bouncing its icon in
the macOS dock. To do so, set the window's -notify attribute.
If a window contains the contents of a document, you can place an
icon in the title bar specifying the file the document refers to. Users
can drag this icon as a proxy for dragging the file in the Finder. Set
the window's -titlepath attribute to the full path of the file. Note that

--- Strana 168 ---
this does not change the title of the window (you'll need to change
that separately), but just provides the icon.
On macOS, windows can also take a variety of appearances for
different purposes, e.g. utility windows, modal dialogs, floating
windows, and so on. There is an unsupported command in Tk called
MacWindowStyle that lets you assign one of these appearances to a
window. Unlike many options in Tk which can be changed at any
point, these appearances must be assigned after the window is
created but before it appears onscreen.
t = Toplevel(root) 
t.tk.call("::tk::unsupported::MacWindowStyle", "style", t._w, 
"utility")
Besides utility, other useful appearance styles include floating,
plain, and modal.
While officially unsupported, this feature has been available for a long
time in Tk. It's likely in future to migrate to the wm attributes command.
For further information, including more details on the different
appearances and optional attributes, see the MacWindowStyle wiki page
(https://wiki.tcl-lang.org/page/MacWindowStyle).
Iconifying and Withdrawing
On most systems, you can temporarily remove the window from the
screen by iconifying it. In Tk, whether or not a window is iconified is
referred to as the window's state. The possible states for a window
include normal and iconic (for an iconified window), and several
others: withdrawn, icon or zoomed.
You can query or set the current window state directly. There are
also methods iconify, deiconify, and withdraw, which are shortcuts
for setting the iconic, normal, and withdrawn states, respectively.
thestate = window.state() 
window.state('normal') 
window.iconify() 
window.deiconify() 
window.withdraw()

--- Strana 169 ---
For document-centric applications, where you want to allow closing any
window without the application exiting (as would happen if you destroy
the root window), use withdraw on the root window to remove it from the
screen, use new toplevel windows for your user interface.
Stacking Order
Stacking order refers to the order that windows are "placed" on the
screen, from bottom to top. When the positions of two windows
overlap each other, the one closer to the top of the stacking order will
obscure or overlap the one lower in the stacking order.
You can ensure that a window is always at the top of the stacking
order (or at least above all others where this attribute isn't set):
window.attributes("-topmost", 1)
You can find the current stacking order, listed from lowest to highest:
root.tk.eval('wm stackorder '+str(window))
This method isn't exposed cleanly in Tkinter. It returns the internal
names of each window, not the window object.
You can also just check if one window is above or below another:
if (root.tk.eval('wm stackorder '+str(window)+' isabove 
'+str(otherwindow))=='1') ... 
if (root.tk.eval('wm stackorder '+str(window)+' isbelow 
'+str(otherwindow))=='1') ...
You can also raise or lower windows, either to the very top (bottom) of
the stacking order, or just above (below) a designated window:
window.lift() 
window.lift(otherwin) 
window.lower() 
window.lower(otherwin)

--- Strana 170 ---
Tkinter uses the name lift since raise is a reserved keyword in
Python.
Why do you need to pass a window to get the stacking order?
Stacking order applies not only for toplevel windows, but for any
sibling widgets (those with the same parent). If you have several
widgets gridded together but overlapping, you can raise and lower
them relative to each other:
from tkinter import * 
from tkinter import ttk 
root = Tk() 
little = ttk.Label(root, text="Little") 
bigger = ttk.Label(root, text='Much bigger label') 
little.grid(column=0,row=0) 
bigger.grid(column=0,row=0) 
root.after(2000, lambda: little.lift()) 
root.mainloop()
  https://tkdocs.com/code/stackorder.py
This uses timer events, which we covered in the event loop chapter.
The after command schedules a script to run at a certain number of
milliseconds in the future, but leaves the event loop to continue.
Screen Information
We've previously used the winfo command to find out information
about specific widgets. It can also provide information about the
entire display or screen. As usual, see the winfo command reference
for full details.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/winfo
For example, you can determine the screen's color depth (how many
bits per pixel) and color model (usually truecolor on modern
displays), it's pixel density, and resolution.
print("color depth=" + str(root.winfo_screendepth())+ " (" + 
root.winfo_screenvisual() + ")") 

--- Strana 171 ---
print("pixels per inch=" + str(root.winfo_pixels('1i'))) 
print("width=", str(root.winfo_screenwidth()) + " height=", 
str(root.winfo_screenheight()))
Multiple Monitors
While normally you shouldn't have to pay attention to it, if you do
have multiple monitors on your system and want to customize things
a bit, there are some tools in Tk to help.
First, there are two ways that multiple monitors can be
represented. The first is with logically separate displays. This is often
the case on X11 systems, though it can be changed, e.g., using the
xrandr system utility. A downside of this model is that once a window
is created on a screen, it can't be moved to a different one. You can
determine the screen that a Tk window is running on, which looks
something like :0.0 (an X11-formatted display name).
root.winfo_screen()
When first creating a toplevel you can specify the screen it should be
created on using the screen configuration option.
Different monitors may have different resolutions, color depths, etc.
You'll notice that all the screen information calls we just covered are
methods invoked on a specific widget. They will return information about
whatever screen that window is located on.
Alternatively, multiple monitors can also be represented as one big
virtual display, which is the case on macOS and Windows. When you
ask for information about the screen, Tk will return information on the
primary monitor. For example, if you have two Full HD monitors side-
by-side, the screen resolution will be reported as 1920 x 1080, not
3840 x 1080. This is probably a good thing; it means that if we're
positioning or sizing windows, we don't need to worry about multiple
monitors, and everything will just show up correctly on the primary
monitor.
What if a user moves a window from the primary monitor to a
different one? If you ask for its position, it will be relative to the

--- Strana 172 ---
primary monitor. So in our side-by-side FHD monitor setup, if you call
the winfo_x method on a window positioned near the left edge of a
monitor, it might return 100 (if it's on the primary monitor), -1820 (if it's
on a monitor to the left of the primary monitor), or 2020 (if it's on a
monitor to the right of the primary monitor). You can still use the
geometry method we saw a bit earlier to position the window on a
different monitor, even though the geometry specification may look a
bit odd, e.g., +-1820+100.
You can find out approximately how large the entire display is,
spanning multiple monitors. To do so, check a toplevel widget's
maximum size, i.e., how large the user can resize it (you can't do this
after you've already changed it, of course). This may be a bit smaller
than the full size of the display. For example, on macOS, it will be
reduced by the size of the menubar at the top of the screen.
root.wm_maxsize()

--- Strana 173 ---
11.3. Dialog Windows
Dialog boxes are a type of window used in applications to get some
information from users, inform them that some event has occurred,
confirm an action, and more. The appearance and usage of dialog
boxes are usually quite specifically detailed in a platform's style
guide. Tk comes with several dialog boxes built-in for common tasks.
These help you conform to platform-specific style guidelines.
Selecting Files and Directories
Tk provides several dialogs to let users select files or directories. On
Windows and macOS, these invoke the underlying operating system
dialogs directly. The "open" variant on the dialog is used when you
want users to select an existing file (like in a File | Open... menu
command), while the "save" variant is used to choose a file to save
into (usually used by the File | Save As... menu command).
from tkinter import filedialog 
filename = filedialog.askopenfilename() 
filename = filedialog.asksaveasfilename() 
dirname = filedialog.askdirectory()
All of these commands produce modal dialogs. This means that the
commands will not complete until a user submits the dialog. These
commands return the full pathname of the file or directory a user has
chosen, or an empty string if a user cancels out of the dialog.
Open file dialogs.

--- Strana 174 ---
Save file dialogs.
Choose directory dialogs.
Various options can be passed to these dialogs, allowing you to set
the allowable file types, initial directory, default filename, and many
more. These are detailed in the getOpenFile (includes getSaveFile)
and chooseDirectory reference manual pages.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/getOpenFile
  https://tkdocs.com/man/chooseDirectory
Selecting Colors
Another modal dialog lets users select a color. It will return a color
value, e.g. #ff62b8. The dialog takes an optional initialcolor option
to specify an existing color, i.e., that users might want to replace.
More information is available in the chooseColor reference manual
pages.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/chooseColor

--- Strana 175 ---
from tkinter import colorchooser 
colorchooser.askcolor(initialcolor='#ff0000')
Choose color dialogs.
Selecting Fonts
Tk 8.6 added support for another system dialog: a font chooser. While
the file dialogs and color chooser were modal dialogs, that block until
the dialog is dismissed and then return a result, the font chooser
doesn't work like that.
As the font chooser isn't available in Tk 8.5, if your code needs to
support older Tk versions, you'll need to take that into account.
Font chooser dialogs.

--- Strana 176 ---
While the system font dialog is modal on some platforms, e.g.,
Windows, that's not the case everywhere. On macOS, the system
font chooser works more like a floating tool palette in a drawing
program, remaining available to change the font for whatever text is
selected in your main application window. The Tk font dialog API has
to accommodate both models. To do so, it uses callbacks (and virtual
events) to notify your application of font changes. Additional details
can be found in the fontchooser reference manual pages.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/fontchooser
To use the font dialog, first provide it with an initial font and a callback
which will be invoked when a font is chosen. For illustration, we'll
have the callback change the font on a label.
l = ttk.Label(root, text="Hello World", font="helvetica 24") 
l.grid(padx=10, pady=10) 
 
def font_changed(font): 
    l['font'] = font 
 
root.tk.call('tk', 'fontchooser', 'configure', '-font', 
'helvetica 24', '-command', root.register(font_changed)) 
root.tk.call('tk', 'fontchooser', 'show')
Tkinter has not yet added a convenient way to use this new dialog, so
this example code uses the Tcl API directly. You can see the latest
work towards a proper Python API and download code at
[bugs.python.org/issue28694].
You can query or change the font that is (or will be) displayed in the
dialog at any time.
Next, put the dialog onscreen via the show method. On platforms
where the font dialog is modal, your program will block at this point
until the dialog is dismissed. On other platforms, show returns
immediately; the dialog remains onscreen while your program
continues. At this point, a font has not been chosen. There's also a
hide method to remove it from the screen (not terribly useful when the
font dialog is modal).

--- Strana 177 ---
root.tk.call('tk', 'fontchooser', 'show') 
root.tk.call('tk', 'fontchooser', 'hide')
If the font dialog was modal, and the user chose a font, the dialog
would have invoked your callback, passing it a font specification. If
they cancelled out of the dialog, there'd be no callback. When the
dialog isn't modal, and the user chooses a font, it will invoke your
callback. A <<TkFontchooserFontChanged>> virtual event is also
generated; you can retrieve the current font via the dialog's font
configuration 
option. 
If 
the 
font 
dialog 
is 
closed, 
a
<<TkFontchooserVisibility>> virtual event is generated. You can also
find out if the font dialog is currently visible onscreen via the visible
configuration option (though changing it is an error; use the show and
hide methods instead).
Because of the significant differences between them, providing a good
user experience on all platforms takes a bit of work. On platforms where
the font dialog is modal,it's likely to be invoked from a button or menu
item that says, e.g., Font.... On other platforms, the button or menu item
should toggle between Show Fonts and Hide Fonts.
If you have several text widgets in your application that can be given different
fonts, when one of them gains focus, it should update the font chooser with its
current font. This also means that a callback from the font dialog may apply to a
different text widget than the one you initially called show from! Finally, be aware
that the font chooser itself may gain the keyboard focus on some platforms.
As of Tk 8.6.10, there are a few bugs in the font chooser on various
platforms. Here's a quick rundown including workarounds:
on macOS, if you don't provide a font via the font configuration option,
your callbacks won't be invoked ⇒ always provide an initial font
on X11, if you don't provide values for all configuration options, those you
don't include will be reset to their default values ⇒ whenever you change
any option, change all of them, even if it's just to their current value
on X11, the font dialog includes an Apply button when you provide a
callback, but omits it when you don't (and just watch for virtual events);
however, other bugs mean those virtual events are never generated ⇒
always provide a command callback

--- Strana 178 ---
on Windows, you can also leave off the Apply button by not providing a
callback; while virtual events are generated on font changes, the font
configuration option is never updated ⇒ always provide a command
callback, and hold onto the font yourself, rather than trying to ask the font
dialog for it later
on Windows, a font change virtual event is not generated if you change
the font configuration option in your code, though it is on macOS and X11
⇒ take any necessary actions when you change the font in your code
rather than in a virtual event handler
Because of the differences between platforms and the various bugs, testing is
far more important when using the font chooser than the other system dialogs.
Alert and Confirmation Dialogs
Many applications use various simple modal alerts or dialogs to notify
users of an event, ask them to confirm an action, or make another
similar choice via clicking on a button. Tk provides a versatile
"message box" that encapsulates all these different types of dialogs.
from tkinter import messagebox 
messagebox.showinfo(message='Have a good day')
Simple message boxes.
messagebox.askyesno( 
       message='Are you sure you want to install SuperVirus?' 
       icon='question' title='Install')

--- Strana 179 ---
Example message boxes.
Like the previous dialogs that we've seen, these are modal and return
the result of a user's action to the caller. Rather than using a type
option, Tkinter uses a different method name for each type of dialog.
The return values vary with the method:
showinfo:
⇒ ok
showwarning:
⇒ ok
showerror:
⇒ ok
askokcancel:
⇒ True (on ok) or False (on cancel)
askyesno:
⇒ True (on yes) or False (on no)
askretrycancel:
⇒ True (on retry) or False (on cancel)
askquestion:
⇒ yes or no
askyesnocancel:
⇒ True (on yes), False (on no), or None (on cancel)
Admittedly, the Tkinter messagebox API isn't the most consistent. It mixes
return types (strings or booleans), there is some duplication (askyesno
and askquestion), and one underlying dialog type (abortretryignore) is
omitted.
The full list of possible options is shown here:
message:
The main message displayed inside the alert.
detail:

--- Strana 180 ---
A secondary message (if needed).
title:
Title for the dialog window. Not used on macOS.
icon:
Icon, one of info (default), error, question or warning.
default:
Default button, e.g. ok or cancel for a okcancel dialog.
parent:
Window of your application this dialog is being posted for.
Additional details can be found in the reference manual.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/messageBox
These new messagebox dialogs replace the older tk_dialog command,
which does not comply with current platform user interface conventions.
Rolling Your Own
If you need to create your own modal dialogs, there are a few things
you'll need to take care of. We've covered most of them earlier in the
chapter, e.g. setting up window styles, positioning the window, etc.
First, you need to ensure that users can only interact with your
dialog. You can use grab_set to do this.
If you want your dialog function to block your application (i.e., the
call to create the dialog shouldn't return until the dialog is dismissed),
this is also possible. There's no reason you'd need to do this, as you
can respond to callbacks, event bindings, etc. while running the
normal event loop, destroy the dialog and move on.
This somewhat cryptic example includes the main steps needed to
create a modal dialog.
ttk.Entry(root).grid()   # something to interact with 
def dismiss (): 
    dlg.grab_release() 
    dlg.destroy() 
 
dlg = Toplevel(root) 
ttk.Button(dlg, text="Done", command=dismiss).grid() 
dlg.protocol("WM_DELETE_WINDOW", dismiss) # intercept close 
button 

--- Strana 181 ---
dlg.transient(root)   # dialog window is related to main 
dlg.wait_visibility() # can't grab until window appears, so we 
wait 
dlg.grab_set()        # ensure all input goes to our window 
dlg.wait_window()     # block until window is destroyed
  https://tkdocs.com/code/dialog.py
Application code blocking like this is an example of running a nested
event loop that we generally recommend against, though it may be
more convenient in certain circumstances.
Tkinter's standard library includes a simpledialog module that helps
with building your own dialogs. Because it uses the classic Tk
widgets rather than the newer themed widgets, we don't recommend
using it directly. However, it does illustrate how to use some of the
techniques for making dialogs behave that we just covered.

--- Strana 182 ---
12. Organizing Complex
Interfaces
If you have a complex user interface, you'll need to find ways to
organize it that don't overwhelm your users. There are several
different approaches to doing this. Both general-purpose and
platform-specific human interface guidelines are good resources
when designing your user interface.
When we talk about complexity in this chapter, we don't mean the
underlying technical complexity of how the program is implemented.
Instead, we mean how it's presented to users. A user interface can
be pulled together from many different modules, built from hundreds
of widgets combined in a deeply nested hierarchy, but that doesn't
mean users need to perceive it as complex.
Multiple windows
One benefit of using multiple windows in an application can be to
simplify the user interface. Done well, it can require users to focus
only on the contents of one window at a time to complete a task.
Forcing them to focus on or switch between several windows can
also have the opposite effect. Similarly, showing only the widgets

--- Strana 183 ---
relevant to the current task (i.e., via grid) can help simplify the user
interface.
White space
If you do need to display a large number of widgets onscreen at the
same time, think about how to organize them visually. We've seen
how grid makes it easy to align widgets with each other. White
space is another useful aid. Place related widgets close to each
other (possibly with an explanatory label immediately above) and
separate them from other widgets by white space. This helps users
organize the user interface in their own minds.
The recommended amount of white space around different widgets,
between groups of widgets, around borders, etc. is highly platform-
specific. While you can do an adequate job without worrying about
exact pixel numbers, if you want a highly polished user interface, you'll need to
tune this for each platform.

--- Strana 184 ---
12.1. Separator
  ttk.Separator
  https://tkdocs.com/man/ttk_separator
A second approach to grouping widgets in one display is to place a
thin horizontal or vertical rule between groups of widgets; often, this
can be more space-efficient than using white space, which may be
relevant for a tight display. Tk provides a simple separator widget for
this purpose.
Separator widgets.
Separators are created using the ttk.Separator class:
s = ttk.Separator(parent, orient=HORIZONTAL)
The orient option may be specified as either horizontal or vertical.

--- Strana 185 ---
12.2. Label Frames
  ttk.Labelframe
  https://tkdocs.com/man/ttk_labelframe
A labelframe widget, also commonly known as a group box,
provides another way to group related components. It acts like a
normal ttk::frame, in that it contains other widgets that you grid
inside it. However, it is visually set off from the rest of the user
interface. You can optionally provide a text label to be displayed
outside the labelframe.
Labelframe widgets.
Labelframes are created using the ttk.Labelframe class:
lf = ttk.Labelframe(parent, text='Label')

--- Strana 186 ---
12.3. Paned Windows
  ttk.Panedwindow
  https://tkdocs.com/man/ttk_panedwindow
A panedwindow widget lets you stack two or more resizable
widgets above and below each other (or to the left and right). Users
can adjust the relative heights (or widths) of each pane by dragging
a sash located between them. Typically the widgets you're adding to
a panedwindow will be frames containing many other widgets.
Panedwindow widgets (shown here managing several labelframes).
Panedwindows are created using the ttk.Panedwindow class:
p = ttk.Panedwindow(parent, orient=VERTICAL) 
# two panes, each of which would get widgets gridded into it: 
f1 = ttk.Labelframe(p, text='Pane1', width=100, height=100) 
f2 = ttk.Labelframe(p, text='Pane2', width=100, height=100)    
p.add(f1) 
p.add(f2)
A panedwindow is either vertical (its panes are stacked vertically
on top of each other) or horizontal. Importantly, each pane you add
to the panedwindow must be a direct child of the panedwindow itself.

--- Strana 187 ---
Calling the add method adds a new pane at the end of the list of
panes. The insert position subwindow method allows you to place
the pane at the given position in the list of panes (0..n-1). If the pane
is already managed by the panedwindow, it will be moved to the new
position. You can use the forget subwindow to remove a pane from
the panedwindow (you can also pass a position instead of a
subwindow).
You can assign relative weights to each pane so that if the overall
panedwindow resizes, certain panes will be allocated more space
than others. As well, you can adjust the position of each sash
between items in the panedwindow. See the command reference for
details.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/ttk_panedwindow

--- Strana 188 ---
12.4. Notebook
  ttk.Notebook
  https://tkdocs.com/man/ttk_notebook
A notebook widget uses the metaphor of a tabbed notebook to let
users switch between one of several pages, using an index tab.
Unlike with paned windows, users only see a single page (akin to a
pane) at a time.
Notebook widgets.
Notebooks are created using the ttk.Notebook class:
n = ttk.Notebook(parent) 
f1 = ttk.Frame(n)   # first page, which would get widgets 
gridded into it 
f2 = ttk.Frame(n)   # second page 
n.add(f1, text='One') 
n.add(f2, text='Two')
The operations on tabbed notebooks are similar to those on
panedwindows. Each page is typically a frame and again must be a
direct child (subwindow) of the notebook itself. A new page and its
associated tab are added after the last tab with the add subwindow ?
option value...? method. The text tab option sets the label on the
tab; also useful is the state tab option, which can have the value
normal, disabled (not selectable), or hidden.

--- Strana 189 ---
To insert a tab at somewhere other than the end of the list, use
the insert position subwindow ?option value...?, and to remove a
given tab, use the forget method, passing it either the position (0..n-
1) or the tab's subwindow. You can retrieve the list of all subwindows
contained in the notebook via the tabs method.
To retrieve the subwindow that is currently selected, call the
select method, and change the selected tab by passing it either the
tab's position or the subwindow itself as a parameter.
To change a tab option (like the text label on the tab or its state),
you can use the tab(tabid, option=value) method (where tabid is
again the tab's position or subwindow); omit the =value to return the
current value of the option.
Notebook widgets generate a <<NotebookTabChanged>> virtual
event whenever a new tab is selected.
Again, there are a variety of less frequently used options and
commands detailed in the command reference.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/ttk_notebook

--- Strana 190 ---
13. Fonts, Colors, Images
This chapter describes how Tk handles fonts, colors, and images. We've
touched on all of these before, but here we'll provide a more in-depth
treatment.

--- Strana 191 ---
13.1. Fonts
Tk's label widget allows you to change the font used to display text via
the font configuration option. The canvas and text widgets, covered in
the following chapters, also allow you to specify fonts. Other themed
widgets that display text may not have a font configuration option, but
their fonts can be changed using styles.
We'll cover styles in detail later. In essence, they replace the old way of
tweaking multiple configuration options on individual widgets. Instead,
fonts, colors, and other settings that control appearance can be bundled
together in a style. That style can then be applied to multiple widgets. It's akin to
the difference between hardcoding display-oriented markup inside HTML pages vs.
using CSS to keep display-specific information separate.
As with many things in Tk, the default fonts are usually a good choice. If
you need to make changes, this section shows you the best way to do
so, using named fonts. Tk includes named fonts suitable for use in all
different components of your user interface. They take into account the
conventions of the specific platform you're running on. You can also
specify your own fonts when you need additional flexibility.
The font command reference provides full details on specifying fonts,
as well as other font-related operations.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/font
Many older Tk programs hardcoded fonts, using either the "family size
style" format we'll see below, X11 font names, or the older and more arcane
X11 font specification strings. These applications looked increasingly dated
as platforms evolved. Worse, fonts were often specified on a per-widget basis,
leaving font decisions spread throughout the code. Named fonts, particularly the
standard fonts that Tk provides, are a far better solution. Reviewing and updating
font decisions is an easy and important change to make in any existing
applications.
Standard Fonts

--- Strana 192 ---
Each platform defines specific fonts that should be used for standard
user interface elements. Tk encapsulates many of these decisions into a
standard set of named fonts. They are available on all platforms, though
the exact font used will vary. This helps abstract away platform
differences. Of course, the standard widgets use these named fonts.
The predefined fonts are:
TkDefaultFont:
Default for items not otherwise specified.
TkTextFont:
Used for entry widgets, listboxes, etc.
TkFixedFont:
A standard fixed-width font.
TkMenuFont:
The font used for menu items.
TkHeadingFont:
Font for column headings in lists and tables.
TkCaptionFont:
A font for window and dialog caption bars.
TkSmallCaptionFont:
A smaller caption font for tool dialogs.
TkIconFont:
A font for icon captions.
TkTooltipFont:
A font for tooltips.
Platform-Specific Fonts
Tk provides additional named fonts to help you comply with less
common situations on specific platforms. Individual platform guidelines
detail how and where these fonts should be used. These fonts are only
defined on specific platforms. You'll need to take that into account if your
application is portable across platforms.
Tk on X11 recognizes any valid X11 font name (see, e.g., the
xlsfonts command). However, these can vary with the operating
system, installed software, and the configuration of the individual
machine. There is no guarantee that a font available on your X11
system has been installed on any other X11 system.
On Windows, Tk provides named fonts for all the fonts that can be set
in the "Display" Control Panel. It recognizes the following font names:
system, ansi, device, systemfixed, ansifixed, and oemfixed.

--- Strana 193 ---
On macOS, the Apple Human Interface Guidelines (HIG) specifies a
number of additional fonts. Tk recognizes the following names:
systemSystemFont, 
systemSmallSystemFont, 
systemApplicationFont,
systemViewsFont, 
systemMenuItemFont, 
systemMenuItemCmdKeyFont,
systemPushButtonFont, 
systemAlertHeaderFont, 
systemMiniSystemFont,
systemDetailEmphasizedSystemFont, 
systemEmphasizedSystemFont,
systemSmallEmphasizedSystemFont, 
systemLabelFont,
systemMenuTitleFont, systemMenuItemMarkFont, systemWindowTitleFont,
systemUtilityWindowTitleFont, 
systemToolbarFont, 
and
systemDetailSystemFont.
Working with Named Fonts
Tk provides several operations that help you work with named fonts.
You can start by getting a list of all the currently defined named fonts.
from tkinter import font 
font.names()
You can find out the actual system font represented by an abstract
named font. This consists of the family (e.g., Times or Helvetica), the
size (in points if positive, in pixels if negative), the weight (normal or
bold), the slant (roman or italic), and boolean attributes for underline
and overstrike. You can find out the font's metrics (how tall characters
in the font can be and whether it is monospaced), and even measure how
many pixels wide a piece of text rendered in the font would be.
>>> from tkinter import font 
>>> f = font.nametofont('TkTextFont') 
>>> f.actual() 
{'family': '.AppleSystemUIFont', 'size': 13, 'weight': 'normal', 
'slant': 'roman', 'underline': 0, 'overstrike': 0} 
>>> f.metrics() 
{'ascent': 13, 'descent': 3, 'linespace': 16, 'fixed': 0} 
>>> f.measure('The quick brown fox') 
124
Tkinter provides a Font class to hold information about a named font.
You can create an instance of this class from the name of a font using
the nametofont function. When you use named fonts in your application

--- Strana 194 ---
(e.g., via a label's font configuration option), you can supply either the
font name (as a string) or a Font instance.
Trying these in an interactive shell and got an error? Even though we're not
displaying anything onscreen, you need to initialize Tk before using the
various font functions.
You can also create your own fonts, which can then be used exactly like
the predefined ones. To do so, choose a name for the font and specify
its font attributes as above.
from tkinter import font 
highlightFont = font.Font(family='Helvetica', 
name='appHighlightFont', size=12, weight='bold') 
ttk.Label(root, text='Attention!', font=highlightFont).grid()
If you don't supply a name, Tkinter will generate one, which you can
retrieve via font.name or str(font). It's usually best to supply one.
The family attribute specifies the font family. Tk ensures the names
Courier, Times, and Helvetica are available, though they may be
mapped to an appropriate monospaced, serif, or sans-serif font). Other
fonts installed on your system can be used, but the usual caveats about
portability apply. You can get the names of all available families with:
font.families()
You can change the attributes of a named font using its configure method.
You might do this in response to menu options allowing users to zoom in or
out, i.e., increasing or decreasing font sizes.
Font Descriptions
Another way to specify fonts is via a list of attributes. starting with the
font family, and then optionally includes a size, and one or more style
options. Some examples of this are Helvetica, Helvetica 12, Helvetica
12 bold, and Helvetica 12 bold italic. These font descriptions can be
used anywhere you'd use a named font, e.g., a font configuration
option.

--- Strana 195 ---
In general, switching from font descriptions to named fonts is advisable to isolate
font differences in one location in the program.

--- Strana 196 ---
13.2. Colors
As with fonts, there are various ways to specify colors. Full details can
be found in the colors command reference.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/colors
In general, Tk widgets default to the right colors for most situations. If
you'd like to change colors, you'll do so via widget-specific commands or
options, e.g., the label's foreground and background configuration
options. For most themed widgets, color changes are specified through
styles, not by changing the widget directly.
You can specify colors via RGB, as you would in HTML or CSS, e.g.
#3FF or #FF016A. Tk also recognizes names such as red, black, grey50,
light blue, etc.
Tk recognizes the standard names for colors defined by X11. You can find
a complete list in the command reference (noted above).
As with fonts, both macOS and Windows specify many system-specific
abstract color names (again, see the reference). The actual color these
correspond to may depend on system settings and can change over
time, e.g., dark mode, text highlight colors, default backgrounds.
If needed, you can find the RGB values (each between 0 and 65535)
for a color using the winfo_rgb method on any widget.
root.winfo_rgb('red')
It should probably go without saying, but restraint in the use of colors is
highly advisable!

--- Strana 197 ---
13.3. Images
We've seen the basics of how to use images already, displaying them in
labels or buttons, for example. We create an image object, usually from
a file on disk.
imgobj = PhotoImage(file='myimage.gif') 
label['image'] = imgobj
Out of the box, Tk 8.5 includes support for GIF and PPM/PNM images.
Tk 8.6 added PNG to this short list. However, there is a Tk extension
library called Img, which adds support for many others: BMP, XBM, XPM,
JPEG, PNG (if you're using 8.5), TIFF, etc. Though not included directly
in the Tk core, Img is usually included with other packaged distributions
(e.g., ActiveTcl).
Instead of using Tk's Img extension, Tkinter uses a made-for-Python
image library called PIL (Python Imaging Library). More specifically, we'll
use a more up-to-date fork of PIL called pillow. As it doesn't come
bundled with Python, you'll normally need to install it. You should be
able to do so via, e.g., pip install Pillow.
from PIL import ImageTk, Image 
myimg = ImageTk.PhotoImage(Image.open('myimage.png'))
The ImageTk.PhotoImage call provides a drop-in replacement for Tk's
PhotoImage but supports the broader range of image types.
Tk's images are actually quite powerful and sophisticated and provide
a wide variety of ways to inspect and modify images. You can find out
more from the image command reference and the photo command
reference.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/image
  https://tkdocs.com/man/photo
The types of multi-color images we've seen here are referred to in Tk as
photo images. Tk also provides a second type of images, two-bit bitmap
images, which were widely used in the '90s when most Unix workstations

--- Strana 198 ---
used quite large (compared with PCs) monitors, but they were only black and
white. Needless to say, color is mostly de rigueur these days, so updating to full-
color images for icons and so on is highly advisable. Though in what some may
consider retro-styling, some flat and material design schemes have returned to
black and white. Plus ça change...

--- Strana 199 ---
14. Canvas
  Canvas
  https://tkdocs.com/man/canvas
A canvas widget manages a 2D collection of graphical objects —
lines, circles, text, images, other widgets, and more. Tk's canvas is
an incredibly powerful and flexible widget, and truly one of Tk's
highlights. It is suitable for a wide range of uses, including drawing or
diagramming, CAD tools, displaying or monitoring simulations or
actual equipment, and building more complex widgets out of simpler
ones.
Note: Canvas widgets are part of the classic Tk widgets, not the
themed Tk widgets.
Canvas widgets.

--- Strana 200 ---
Canvas widgets are created using the Canvas class:
canvas = Canvas(parent, width=500, height=400, 
background='gray75')
You'll often provide a width and height, either in pixels or any of the
other standard distance units. As always, you can ask the geometry
manager to expand it to fill the available space in the window. You
might provide a default background color for the canvas, specifying
colors in any of the ways you learned about in the last chapter.
Canvas widgets also support other appearance options like relief
and borderwidth that we've used before.
Canvas widgets have a tremendous number of features, and we
won't cover everything here. Instead, we'll start with a simple
example, a freehand sketching tool, and incrementally add new
pieces to it, each showing another new feature of canvas widgets.

--- Strana 201 ---
14.1. Creating Items
When you create a new canvas widget, it is essentially a large
rectangle with nothing on it, truly a blank canvas in other words. To
do anything useful with it, you'll need to add items to it. There are a
wide variety of different types of items you can add. Here, we'll add a
simple line item to the canvas.
To create a line, you need to specify its starting and ending
coordinates. Coordinates are expressed as the number of pixels
away from the top-left corner, both horizontally and vertically, i.e.
(x,y). The pixel at the top-left corner, known as the origin, has
coordinates (0,0). The "x" value increases as you move to the right
and the "y" value increases as you move down. A line is described
by two points, which we'd refer to as (x0,y0) and (x1,y1). This code
creates a line from (10,5) to (200,50):
canvas.create_line(10, 5, 200, 50)
The create_line method returns an item id (an integer) that uniquely
refers to this item. We'll see how it can be used shortly. Often, we
don't need to refer to the item later and can ignore the returned id.
A Simple Sketchpad
Let's start our simple sketchpad example. For now, we'll implement
freehand drawing on the canvas with the mouse. We create a
canvas widget and attach event bindings to it to capture mouse
clicks and drags. When the mouse is first pressed, we'll remember
that location as the "start" coordinates of our next line. As the mouse
is moved with the mouse button held down, we create a line item
from this "start" position to the current mouse location. This current
location becomes the "start" position for the next line item. Every
mouse drag creates a new line item.

--- Strana 202 ---
from tkinter import * 
from tkinter import ttk 
 
def savePosn(event): 
    global lastx, lasty 
    lastx, lasty = event.x, event.y 
 
def addLine(event): 
    canvas.create_line((lastx, lasty, event.x, event.y)) 
    savePosn(event) 
 
root = Tk() 
root.columnconfigure(0, weight=1) 
root.rowconfigure(0, weight=1) 
 
canvas = Canvas(root) 
canvas.grid(column=0, row=0, sticky=(N, W, E, S)) 
canvas.bind("<Button-1>", savePosn) 
canvas.bind("<B1-Motion>", addLine) 
 
root.mainloop()
  https://tkdocs.com/code/sketch1.py
Again, in this simple example, we're using global variables to store
the start position. In practice, we'd encapsulate all of this in a Python
class. Here's one way we could do that. Note that this example
creates a subclass of Canvas, which is treated like any other widget in
the code. We could have equally well used a standalone class, as
we did with the "feet to meters" example.
from tkinter import * 
from tkinter import ttk 
 
class Sketchpad(Canvas): 
    def __init__(self, parent, **kwargs): 
        super().__init__(parent, **kwargs) 
        self.bind("<Button-1>", self.save_posn) 
        self.bind("<B1-Motion>", self.add_line) 
         
    def save_posn(self, event): 
        self.lastx, self.lasty = event.x, event.y 
 
    def add_line(self, event): 
        self.create_line((self.lastx, self.lasty, event.x, 

--- Strana 203 ---
event.y)) 
        self.save_posn(event) 
 
root = Tk() 
root.columnconfigure(0, weight=1) 
root.rowconfigure(0, weight=1) 
 
sketch = Sketchpad(root) 
sketch.grid(column=0, row=0, sticky=(N, W, E, S)) 
 
root.mainloop()
  https://tkdocs.com/code/sketcho.py
Try it out - drag the mouse around the canvas to create your
masterpiece.
Item Attributes
When creating items, you can also specify one or more attributes for
the item, affecting how it is displayed. For example, here we'll specify
that the line should be red and three pixels wide.
canvas.create_line(10, 10, 200, 50, fill='red', width=3)
The exact set of attributes will vary according to the type of item.
Some commonly used ones are:
fill:
color to draw the object
width:
line width of the item (or its outline)
outline:
for filled shapes like rectangles, the color to draw the item's
outline
dash:
draw a dashed line instead of a solid one, e.g., 2 4 6 4
alternates short (2 pixels) and long (6 pixels) dashes with 4
pixels between
stipple:

--- Strana 204 ---
instead of a solid fill color, use a pattern, typically gray75, gray50,
gray25, or gray12; stippling is currently not supported on macOS
state:
assign a state of normal (default), disabled (item event bindings
are ignored), or hidden (removed from display)
disabledfill, disabledwidth, ...:
if the item's state is set to disabled, the item will display using
these variants of the usual attributes
activefill, activewidth, ...:
when the mouse pointer is over the item, it will display using
these variants of the usual attributes
If you have canvas items that change state, creating the item with both
the regular and disabled* attribute variants can simplify your code. You
simply need to change the item's state, rather than writing code to
change multiple display attributes. The same applies to the active*. Both
encourage a more declarative style that can remove a lot of boilerplate code.
Akin to Tk widgets, changing attributes for canvas items after we've
already created them is easily accomplished.
id = canvas.create_line(0, 0, 10, 10, fill='red') 
... 
canvas.itemconfigure(id, fill='blue', width=2)
Item Types
Canvas widgets support a wide variety of item types.
Line
Our sketchpad created simple line items, each a single segment with
a start point and an end point. Lines items can also consist of
multiple segments.
canvas.create_line(10, 10, 200, 50, 90, 150, 50, 80)

--- Strana 205 ---
Lines have several interesting additional attributes, allowing for
drawing curves, arrows, and more.
arrow:
place an arrowhead at the start (first), end (last), or both ends
(both); default is none
arrowshape:
allows changing the appearance of any arrowheads
capstyle:
for wide lines without arrowheads, this controls how the end of
lines are drawn; one of butt (default), projecting, or round
joinstyle:
for wide lines with multiple segments, this controls drawings of
each vertex; one of round (default), bevel, or miter
smooth:
if specified as true (or bezier), draws a smooth curve (via
quadratic splines) between multiple segments rather than using
straight lines; raw specifies a different type of curve (cubic
splines)
splinesteps:
controls the smoothness of curved lines, i.e., those with the
smooth option set
Rectangle
Rectangles are specified by the coordinates of opposing corners,
e.g., top-left and bottom-right. They can be filled in (via fill) with
one color, and the outline given a different color.
canvas.create_rectangle(10, 10, 200, 50, fill='red', 
outline='blue')
Oval
Ovals items work exactly the same as rectangles.
canvas.create_oval(10, 10, 200, 150, fill='red', 
outline='blue')

--- Strana 206 ---
Polygon
Polygon items allow you to create arbitrary shapes as defined by a
series of points. The coordinates are given in the same way as
multipoint lines. Tk ensures the polygon is "closed," attaching the
last point to the first if needed. Like ovals and rectangles, they can
have separate fill and outline colors. They also support the
joinstyle, smooth, and splinesteps attributes of line items.
canvas.create_polygon(10, 10, 200, 50, 90, 150, 50, 80, 120, 
55, fill='red', outline='blue')
Arc
Arc items draw a portion of an oval; think of one piece of a pie chart.
It's display is controlled by three attributes:
start: how far along the oval the arc should start, in degrees (0
is the 3-o'clock position)
The extent: how many degrees "wide" the arc should be,
positive for counter-clockwise from the start, negative for
clockwise
style: one of pieslice (the default), arc (draws just the outer
perimeter), or chord (draws the area between a line connecting
the start and end points of the arc, and the outer perimeter).
canvas.create_arc(10, 10, 200, 150, fill='yellow', 
outline='black', start=45, extent=135, width=5)
Image
Image items can display arbitrary images. By default, the item is
centered at the coordinates you specify, but this can be changed
with the anchor option, e.g., nw means the coordinates are where to
put the top-left of the image.

--- Strana 207 ---
myimg = PhotoImage(file='pretty.png') 
canvas.create_image(10, 10, image=myimg, anchor='nw')
There's also a bitmap item type for images having only two colors,
which can be changed via foreground and background. It's not
something that would commonly be used these days.
Text
Text items can display a block of text. Positioning the text works the
same as with image items. Specify the text to display using the text
attribute. All of the text in the item will have the same color (specified
by the fill attribute) and the same font (specified by a font
attribute).
The text item can display multiple lines of text if you embed \n in
the text. Alternatively, you can have the item automatically wrapped
into multiple lines by providing a width attribute to represent the
maximum width of a line. The alignment of multiple lines of text can
be set using the justify attribute, which can be one of left (the
default), right, or center.
canvas.create_oval(100, 100, text='A wonderful story', 
anchor='nw', font='TkMenuFont', fill='red')
Widget
One of the coolest things you can do with the canvas widget is to
embed other widgets inside it. This can be a lowly button, an entry
(think in-place editing of text items), a listbox, a frame itself
containing a complex set of widgets... anything! Remember when we
said way back when that a canvas widget could act as a geometry
manager? This is what we meant.
Canvas items that display other widgets are known as window
items (Tk's longstanding terminology for widgets). They are
positioned like text and image items. You can give them explicit
width and height attributes; they default to the widget's preferred

--- Strana 208 ---
size. Finally, it's important that the widget you're placing on the
canvas (via the window) attribute be a child widget of the canvas.
b = ttk.Button(camvas, text='Implode!') 
canvas.create_image(10, 10, anchor='nw', window=b)
Modifying Items
We've seen how you can modify the configuration options on an item
— its color, width, etc. There are several other things you can do
with items.
To delete items, use the delete method.
To change an item's size and position, you can use the coords
method. You supply new coordinates for the item, specified the same
way as when you first created it. Calling this method without a new
set of coordinates will return the current coordinates of the item. To
move one or more items by a particular horizontal or vertical amount
from their current location, you can use the move method.
All items are ordered from top to bottom in what's called the
stacking order. If an item later in the stacking order overlaps an item
below it, the first item will be drawn on top of the second. The lift
and lower methods allow you to adjust an item's position in the
stacking order.
There are several more operations detailed in the reference
manual. They describe more ways to modify items and retrieve
information about them.

--- Strana 209 ---
14.2. Event Bindings
We've already seen that the canvas widget as a whole, like any other
Tk widget, can capture events using the bind command.
You can also attach bindings to individual items in the canvas (or
groups of them, as we'll see in the next section using tags). So if you
want to know whether or not a particular item has been clicked on,
you don't need to watch for mouse click events for the canvas as a
whole, and then figure out if that click happened on your item. Tk will
take care of all this for you.
To capture these events, you use a bind command built into the
canvas. It works exactly like the regular bind command, taking an
event pattern and a callback. The only difference is you specify the
canvas item this binding applies to.
canvas.tag_bind(id, '<1>', ...)
Note the difference between the item-specific tag_bind method and the
widget-level bind method.
Let's add some code to our sketchpad example to allow changing
the drawing color. We'll first create a few different rectangle items,
each filled with a different color. We'll then attach a binding to each
of these. When they're clicked on, they'll set a global variable to the
new drawing color. Our mouse motion binding will look at that
variable when creating the line segments.
color = "black" 
def setColor(newcolor): 
    global color 
    color = newcolor 
 
def addLine(event): 
    global lastx, lasty 
    canvas.create_line((lastx, lasty, event.x, event.y), 
fill=color) 
    lastx, lasty = event.x, event.y 

--- Strana 210 ---
 
id = canvas.create_rectangle((10, 10, 30, 30), fill="red") 
canvas.tag_bind(id, "<Button-1>", lambda x: setColor("red")) 
id = canvas.create_rectangle((10, 35, 30, 55), fill="blue") 
canvas.tag_bind(id, "<Button-1>", lambda x: setColor("blue")) 
id = canvas.create_rectangle((10, 60, 30, 80), fill="black") 
canvas.tag_bind(id, "<Button-1>", lambda x: 
setColor("black"))    
  https://tkdocs.com/code/sketch2.py

--- Strana 211 ---
14.3. Tags
We've seen that every canvas item has a unique id number, but
there is another very useful and powerful way to refer to items on a
canvas, and that is using tags.
A tag is just an identifier of your creation, something meaningful to
your program. You can attach tags to canvas items; each item can
have any number of tags. Unlike item id numbers, which are unique
for each item, many items can have the same tag.
What can you do with tags? We saw that you can use the item id
to modify a canvas item (and we'll see soon there are other things
you can do to items, like move them around, delete them, etc.). Any
time you can use an item id, you can use a tag. For example, you
can change the color of all items having a specific tag.
Tags are a good way to identify certain types of items in your
canvas (items that are part of a drawn line, items that are part of the
palette, etc.). You can use tags to correlate canvas items to
particular objects in your application (for example, tag all canvas
items that are part of the robot with id #37 with the tag "robot37").
With tags, you don't have to keep track of the ids of canvas items to
refer to groups of items later; tags let Tk do that for you.
You can assign tags when creating an item using the tags item
configuration option. You can add tags later with the addtag method,
or remove them with the dtags method. You can get the list of tags
for an item with the gettags method, or return a list of item id
numbers having the given tag with the find command.
For example:
>>> c = Canvas(root) 
>>> c.create_line(10, 10, 20, 20, tags=('firstline', 
'drawing')) 
1 
>>> c.create_rectangle(30, 30, 40, 40, tags=('drawing')) 
2 
>>> c.addtag('rectangle', 'withtag', 2) 
>>> c.addtag('polygon', 'withtag', 'rectangle') 
>>> c.gettags(2) 

--- Strana 212 ---
('drawing', 'rectangle', 'polygon') 
>>> c.dtag(2, 'polygon') 
>>> c.gettags(2) 
('drawing', 'rectangle')     
>>> c.find_withtag('drawing') 
(1, 2)
As you can see, things like withtag will take either an individual item
or a tag; in the latter case, they will apply to all items having that tag
(which could be none). The addtag and find have many other
options, allowing you to specify items near a point, overlapping a
particular area, etc.
Let's use tags first to put a border around whichever item in our
color palette is currently selected.
def setColor(newcolor): 
    global color 
    color = newcolor 
    canvas.dtag('all', 'paletteSelected') 
    canvas.itemconfigure('palette', outline='white') 
    canvas.addtag('paletteSelected', 'withtag', 'palette%s' % 
color) 
    canvas.itemconfigure('paletteSelected', 
outline='#999999') 
 
id = canvas.create_rectangle((10, 10, 30, 30), fill="red", 
tags=('palette', 'palettered')) 
id = canvas.create_rectangle((10, 35, 30, 55), fill="blue", 
tags=('palette', 'paletteblue')) 
id = canvas.create_rectangle((10, 60, 30, 80), fill="black", 
tags=('palette', 'paletteblack', 'paletteSelected')) 
 
setColor('black') 
canvas.itemconfigure('palette', width=5) 
Let's also use tags to make the current stroke being drawn appear
more prominent. When the mouse button is released, we'll return the
line to normal.
def addLine(event): 
    global lastx, lasty 
    canvas.create_line((lastx, lasty, event.x, event.y), 
fill=color, width=5, tags='currentline') 

--- Strana 213 ---
    lastx, lasty = event.x, event.y 
 
def doneStroke(event): 
    canvas.itemconfigure('currentline', width=1)         
 
canvas.bind("<B1-ButtonRelease>", doneStroke)
  https://tkdocs.com/code/sketch3.py

--- Strana 214 ---
14.4. Scrolling
In many applications, you'll want the canvas to be larger than what
appears on the screen. You can attach horizontal and vertical
scrollbars to the canvas in the usual way, via the xview and yview
methods.
You can specify both how large you'd like it to be on screen and
its full size (which would require scrolling to see). The width and
height configuration options for the canvas widget will request the
given amount of space from the geometry manager. The
scrollregion configuration option tells Tk how large the canvas
surface is by specifying its left, top, right, and bottom coordinates,
e.g., 0 0 1000 1000.
You should be able to modify the sketchpad program to add
scrolling, given what you already know. Give it a try.
Once you've done that, scroll the canvas down just a little bit, and
then try drawing. You'll see that the line you're drawing appears
above where the mouse is pointing! Surprised?
What's going on is that the global bind command doesn't know
that the canvas is scrolled (it doesn't know the details of any
particular widget). So if you've scrolled the canvas down by 50
pixels, and you click on the top left corner, bind will report that you've
clicked at (0,0). But we know that because of the scrolling, that
position should really be (0,50).
The canvasx and canvasy methods translate the position onscreen
(which bind reports) into the actual point on the canvas (taking into
account scrolling).
Be careful if you're adding canvasx and canvasy methods directly to the event
binding scripts. You need to watch the quoting and substitutions to
ensure the conversions are done when the event fires. As always, it's
better to place that code in a procedure separate from the event
binding itself.

--- Strana 215 ---
Here then, is our complete example. We probably don't want the
palette to be scrolled away when the canvas is scrolled, but we'll
leave that for another day.
from tkinter import * 
from tkinter import ttk 
root = Tk() 
 
h = ttk.Scrollbar(root, orient=HORIZONTAL) 
v = ttk.Scrollbar(root, orient=VERTICAL) 
canvas = Canvas(root, scrollregion=(0, 0, 1000, 1000), 
yscrollcommand=v.set, xscrollcommand=h.set) 
h['command'] = canvas.xview 
v['command'] = canvas.yview 
 
canvas.grid(column=0, row=0, sticky=(N,W,E,S)) 
h.grid(column=0, row=1, sticky=(W,E)) 
v.grid(column=1, row=0, sticky=(N,S)) 
root.grid_columnconfigure(0, weight=1) 
root.grid_rowconfigure(0, weight=1) 
 
lastx, lasty = 0, 0 
 
def xy(event): 
    global lastx, lasty 
    lastx, lasty = canvas.canvasx(event.x), 
canvas.canvasy(event.y) 
 
def setColor(newcolor): 
    global color 
    color = newcolor 
    canvas.dtag('all', 'paletteSelected') 
    canvas.itemconfigure('palette', outline='white') 
    canvas.addtag('paletteSelected', 'withtag', 'palette%s' % 
color) 
    canvas.itemconfigure('paletteSelected', 
outline='#999999') 
 
def addLine(event): 
    global lastx, lasty 
    x, y = canvas.canvasx(event.x), canvas.canvasy(event.y) 
    canvas.create_line((lastx, lasty, x, y), fill=color, 
width=5, tags='currentline') 
    lastx, lasty = x, y 
 
def doneStroke(event): 

--- Strana 216 ---
    canvas.itemconfigure('currentline', width=1)         
         
canvas.bind("<Button-1>", xy) 
canvas.bind("<B1-Motion>", addLine) 
canvas.bind("<B1-ButtonRelease>", doneStroke) 
 
id = canvas.create_rectangle((10, 10, 30, 30), fill="red", 
tags=('palette', 'palettered')) 
canvas.tag_bind(id, "<Button-1>", lambda x: setColor("red")) 
id = canvas.create_rectangle((10, 35, 30, 55), fill="blue", 
tags=('palette', 'paletteblue')) 
canvas.tag_bind(id, "<Button-1>", lambda x: setColor("blue")) 
id = canvas.create_rectangle((10, 60, 30, 80), fill="black", 
tags=('palette', 'paletteblack', 'paletteSelected')) 
canvas.tag_bind(id, "<Button-1>", lambda x: 
setColor("black")) 
 
setColor('black') 
canvas.itemconfigure('palette', width=5) 
root.mainloop()
  https://tkdocs.com/code/sketch4.py

--- Strana 217 ---
15. Text
  Text
  https://tkdocs.com/man/text
A text widget manages a multi-line text area. Like the canvas widget,
Tk's text widget is an immensely flexible and powerful tool which can
be used for a wide variety of tasks. It can provide a simple multi-line
text area as part of a form. But text widgets can also form the basis for
a stylized code editor, an outliner, a web browser, and much more.
Note: Text widgets are part of the classic Tk widgets, not the themed
Tk widgets.
Text widgets.
While we briefly introduced text widgets in an earlier chapter, we'll go
into much more detail here. You'll get a better sense of the level of

--- Strana 218 ---
sophistication they allow. Still, for any significant work with the text
widget, the reference manual is well-organized, useful, and a highly-
recommended read.
Text widgets are created using the Text class:
text = Text(parent, width=40, height=10)
You'll often provide a width (in characters) and height (in lines). As
always, you can ask the geometry manager to expand it to fill the
available space in the window.

--- Strana 219 ---
15.1. The Basics
If you simply need a multi-line text field for a form, there are only a few
things to worry about: creating and sizing the widget (check), providing
an initial value, and retrieving the text after a user has submitted the
form.
Providing Initial Content
Text widgets start with nothing in them, so we'll need to add any initial
content ourselves. Because text widgets can hold a lot more than plain
text, a simple mechanism (like the entry widget's textvariable
configuration option) isn't sufficient.
Instead, we'll use the widget's insert method:
text.insert('1.0', 'here is my\ntext to insert')
The "1.0" here is the position where to insert the text, and can be read
as "line 1, character 0". This refers to the first character of the first line.
Historically, especially on Unix, programmers tend to think about line
numbers as 1-based and character positions as 0-based.
The text to insert is just a string. Because the widget can hold multi-
line text, the string we supply can be multi-line as well. To do this,
simply embed \n (newline) characters in the string at the appropriate
locations.
Retrieving the Text
After users have made any changes and submitted the form (for
example), your program can retrieve the contents of the widget via the
get method:
thetext = text.get('1.0', 'end')
The two parameters are the start and end position; end has the obvious
meaning. You can provide different start and end positions if you want
to obtain only part of the text. You'll see more on positions shortly.

--- Strana 220 ---
Customizing Appearance
We previously saw the width and height configuration options for text
widgets. Several others control its overall appearance. The most useful
are:
foreground:
color to draw the text in
background:
background color of the widget
padx, pady:
extra padding along the inside border of the widget
borderwidth:
width of the border around widget
relief:
border style: flat, raised, sunken, solid, ridge, groove
Wrapping and Scrolling
What if some lines of text in the widget are very long, longer than the
width of the widget? By default, the text wraps around to the next line.
This behavior can be changed with the wrap configuration option. It
defaults to char, meaning wrap lines at any character. Other options
are word to wrap lines only at word breaks (e.g., spaces), and none
meaning to not wrap lines at all. In the latter case, some text of longer
lines won't be visible unless we attach a horizontal scrollbar to the
widget. (Users can also scroll through the text using arrow keys, even if
scrollbars aren't present).
Scrollbars, both horizontal and vertical, can be attached to the text
widget in the same way as with other widgets, e.g., canvas, listbox.
t = Text(root, width = 40, height = 5, wrap = "none") 
ys = ttk.Scrollbar(root, orient = 'vertical', command = 
t.yview)
xs = ttk.Scrollbar(root, orient = 'horizontal', command = 
t.xview)
t['yscrollcommand'] = ys.set
t['xscrollcommand'] = xs.set 
t.insert('end', "Lorem ipsum...\n...\n...") 
t.grid(column = 0, row = 0, sticky = 'nwes') 
xs.grid(column = 0, row = 1, sticky = 'we') 
ys.grid(column = 1, row = 0, sticky = 'ns') 

--- Strana 221 ---
root.grid_columnconfigure(0, weight = 1) 
root.grid_rowconfigure(0, weight = 1)
  https://tkdocs.com/code/scrolledtext.py
We can also ask the widget to ensure that a certain part of the text is
visible. For example, let's say we've added more text to the widget than
will fit onscreen (so it will scroll). However, we want to ensure that the
top of the text rather than the bottom is visible. We can use the see
method.
text.see('1.0')
Disabling the Widget
Some forms will temporarily disable editing in particular widgets unless
certain conditions are met (e.g., some other options are set to a certain
value). To prevent users from changing a text widget, set the state
configuration option to disabled. Re-enable editing by setting this
option back to normal.
text['state'] = 'disabled'
As text widgets are part of the classic widgets, the usual state and
instate methods are not available.

--- Strana 222 ---
15.2. Modifying the Text in Code
While users can modify the text in the text widget interactively, your
program can also make changes. Adding text is done with the insert
method, which we used above to provide an initial value for the text
widget.
Text Positions and Indices
When we specified a position of 1.0 (first line, first character), this was
an example of an index. It tells the insert method where to put the new
text (just before the first line, first character, i.e., at the very start of the
widget). Indices can be specified in a variety of ways. We used another
one with the get method: end means just past the end of the text. (Why
"just past?" Text is inserted right before the given index, so inserting at
end will add text to the end of the widget). Note that Tk will always add
a newline at the very end of the text widget.
Here are a few additional examples of indices and how to interpret
them:
3.end:
The newline at the end of line 3.
1.0 + 3 chars:
Three characters past the start of line 1.
2.end -1 chars:
The last character before the new line in line 2.
end -1 chars:
The newline that Tk always adds at the end of the text.
end -2 chars:
The actual last character of the text.
end -1 lines:
The start of the last actual line of text.
2.2 + 2 lines:
The third character (index 2) of the fourth line of text.
2.5 linestart:
The first character of line 2.
2.5 lineend:
The position of the newline at the end of line 2.

--- Strana 223 ---
2.5 wordstart:
First char. of the word with the char. at index 2.5.
2.5 wordend:
First char. after the word with the char. at index 2.5.
Some additional things to keep in mind:
The term chars can be abbreviated as c, and lines as l.
Spaces between terms can be omitted, e.g., 1.0+3c.
An index past the end of the text (e.g., end + 100c) is interpreted
as end.
Indices wrap to subsequent lines as needed; e.g., 1.0 + 10 chars
on a line with only five characters will refer to a position on the
second line.
Line numbers in indices are interpreted as logical lines, i.e., each
line ends only at the "\n." With long lines and wrapping enabled,
one logical line may represent multiple display lines. If you'd like to
move up or down a single line on the display, you can specify this
as, e.g., "1.0 + 2 display lines".
To determine the canonical position of an index, use the index idx
method. Pass it any index expression, and it returns the corresponding
index in the form line.char. For example, to find the position of the last
character (ignoring the automatic newline at the end), use:
text.index('end')
You can compare two indices using the compare method, which lets you
check for equality, whether one index is later in the text than the other,
etc.
if text.compare(idx1, "==", idx2"): # same position
Valid operators are ==, !=, <, <=, >, and >=.
Deleting Text
While the insert method adds new text anywhere in the widget, the
delete start ?end? method removes it. We can delete either a single

--- Strana 224 ---
character (specified by index) or a range of characters (specified by
start and end indices). In the latter case, characters from (and
including) the start index through to just before the end index will be
deleted (so the character at the end index is not deleted). So if we
assume for each of these we start off with abcd\nefgh in the text
widget:
text.delete('1.2') ⇒ "abd\nefgh" 
text.delete('1.1', '1.2') ⇒ "acd\nefgh" 
text.delete('1.0', '2.0') ⇒ "efgh" 
text.delete('1.2', '2.1') ⇒ "abfgh"
There is also a replace method that performs a delete followed by an
insert at the same location.
Example: Logging Window
Here's a short example that illustrates using a text widget as an 80x24
logging window for an application. Users don't edit the text widget at
all. Instead, the program writes log messages to it. We'd like to display
more than 24 lines (so no scrolling). If the log is full, old messages are
removed from the top before new ones are added at the end.
from tkinter import * 
from tkinter import ttk 
 
root = Tk() 
log = Text(root, state='disabled', width=80, height=24, 
wrap='none') 
log.grid() 
 
def writeToLog(msg): 
    numlines = int(log.index('end - 1 line').split('.')[0]) 
    log['state'] = 'normal' 
    if numlines==24: 
        log.delete(1.0, 2.0) 
    if log.index('end-1c')!='1.0': 
        log.insert('end', '\n') 
    log.insert('end', msg) 
    log['state'] = 'disabled'
  https://tkdocs.com/code/logwindow.py

--- Strana 225 ---
Note that because the program placed the widget in a disabled state, we had 
re-enable it to make any changes, even from our program.

--- Strana 226 ---
15.3. Formatting with Tags
So far, we've used text widgets when all the text is in a single font. Now
it's time to look at how to add special formatting, such as bold, italic,
strikethrough, background colors, font sizes, and much more. Tk's text
widget implements these using a feature called tags.
Tags are objects associated with the text widget. Each tag is
referred to via a name chosen by the programmer. Each tag has
several configuration options. These are things like fonts and colors
that control formatting. Though tags are objects having state, they don't
need to be explicitly created. They are automatically created the first
time the tag name is used.
Adding Tags to Text
Tags can be associated with one or more ranges of text in the widget.
As before, ranges are specified via indices. A single index represents a
single character, and a pair of indices represent a range from the start
character to just before the end character. Tags are added to a range of
text using the tag_add method.
text.tag_add('highlightline', '5.0', '6.0')
Tags can also be provided when first inserting text. The insert method
supports an optional parameter containing a list of one or more tags to
add to the text being inserted.
text.insert('end', 'new material to insert', ('highlightline', 
'recent', 'warning'))
As the text in the widget is modified, whether by a user or your
program, the tags will adjust automatically. For example, if we tagged
the text "the quick brown fox" with the tag "nounphrase", and then
replaced the word "quick" with "speedy," the tag still applies to the
entire phrase.

--- Strana 227 ---
Applying Formatting to Tags
Formatting is applied to tags via configuration options; these work
similarly to configuration options for the entire widget. As an example:
text.tag_configure('highlightline', background='yellow', 
font='TkFixedFont', relief='raised')
Tags support the following configuration options: background, bgstipple,
borderwidth, elide, fgstipple, font, foreground, justify, lmargin1,
lmargin2, offset, overstrike, relief, rmargin, spacing1, spacing2,
spacing3, tabs, tabstyle, underline, and wrap. Check the reference
manual for detailed descriptions of these. The tag_cget tag option
method allows us to query the configuration options of a tag.
Because multiple tags can apply to the same range of text, there is
the possibility of conflict (e.g., two tags specifying different fonts). A
priority order is used to resolve these; the most recently created tags
have the highest priority, but priorities can be rearranged using the
tag_raise tag and tag_lower tag methods.
More Tag Manipulations
To delete one or more tags altogether, we can use the tag_delete tags
method. This also, of course, removes any references to the tag in the
text. We can also remove a tag from a range of text using the
tag_remove tag start ?end? method. Even if that leaves no ranges of
text with that tag, the tag object itself still exists.
The tag_ranges tag method will return a list of ranges in the text that
the tag has been applied to. There are also tag_nextrange tag start ?
end? and tag_prevrange tag start ?end? methods to search forward or
backward for the first such range from a given position.
The tag_names ?idx? method, called with no additional parameters,
will return a list of all tags currently defined in the text widget (including
those that may not be presently used). If we pass the method an index,
it will return the list of tags applied to just the character at the index.
Finally, we can use the first and last characters in the text having a
given tag as indices, the same way we can use "end" or "2.5". To do
so, just specify tagname.first or tagname.last.

--- Strana 228 ---
Differences between Tags in Canvas and Text Widgets
Both canvas and text widgets support "tags" that can be applied to
several objects, style them, etc. However, canvas and text tags are not
the same. There are important differences to take note of.
In canvas widgets, only individual canvas items have configuration
options that control their appearance. When we refer to a tag in a
canvas, the meaning of that is identical to "all canvas items presently
having that tag." The tag itself doesn't exist as a separate object. So in
the following snippet, the last rectangle added will not be colored red.
canvas.itemconfigure('important', fill='red') 
canvas.create_rectangle(10, 10, 40, 40, tags=('important'))
In contrast, with text widgets, it's not the individual characters that
retain the state information about appearance, but tags, which are
objects in their own right. So in this snippet, the newly added text will
be colored red.
text.insert('end', 'first text', ('important')) 
text.tag_configure('important', foreground='red') 
text.insert('end', 'second text', ('important'))

--- Strana 229 ---
15.4. Events and Bindings
One very cool thing we can do is define event bindings on tags. That
allows us to do things like easily recognize mouse clicks on particular
ranges of text, and popup up a menu or dialog in response. Different
tags can have different bindings. This saves the hassle of sorting out
questions like "what does a click at this location mean?". Bindings on
tags are implemented using the tag_bind method:
text.tag_bind('important', '<1>', popupImportantMenu)
Widget-wide event bindings continue to work as they do for every other
widget, e.g., to capture a mouse click anywhere in the text. Besides the
normal low-level events, the text widget generates a <<Modified>>
virtual event whenever a change is made to the content of the widget,
and a <<Selection>> virtual event whenever there is a change made to
which text is selected.

--- Strana 230 ---
15.5. Selecting Text
We can identify the range of text selected by a user, if any. For
example, an editor may have a toolbar button to bold the selected text.
While you can tell when the selection has changed (e.g., to update
whether or not the bold button is active) via the <<Selection>> virtual
event, that doesn't tell you what has been selected.
The text widget automatically maintains a tag named sel, which
refers to the selected text. Whenever the selection changes, the sel
tag will be updated. So we can find the range of text selected using the
tag_ranges ?tag? method, passing it sel as the tag to report on.
Similarly, we can change the selection by using tag_add to set a new
selection, or tag_remove to remove the selection. The sel tag cannot be
deleted, however.
Though the default widget bindings prevent this from happening, sel is
like any other tag in that it can support multiple ranges, i.e., disjoint
selections. To prevent this from happening, when changing the selection
from your code, make sure to remove any old selection before adding a new one.
The text widget manages the concept of the insertion cursor (where
newly typed text will appear) separate from the selection. It does so
using a new concept called a mark.

--- Strana 231 ---
15.6. Marks
Marks indicate a particular place in the text. In that respect, they are
like indices. However, as the text is modified, the mark will adjust to be
in the same relative location. In that way, they resemble tags, but refer
to a single position rather than a range of text. Marks actually don't
refer to a position occupied by a character in the text but specify a
position between two characters.
Tk automatically maintains two different marks. The first, named
insert, is the present location of the insertion cursor. As the cursor is
moved (via mouse or keyboard), the mark moves with it. The second
mark, named current, tracks the position of the character underneath
the current mouse position.
To create your own marks, use the widget's mark_set name idx
method, passing it the name of the mark and an index (the mark is
positioned just before the character at the given index). This is also
used to move an existing mark to a different position. Marks can be
removed using the mark_unset name method, passing it the name of the
mark. If you delete a range of text containing a mark, that also removes
the mark.
The name of a mark can also be used as an index (in the same way
1.0 or end-1c are indices). You can find the next mark (or previous one)
from a given index in the text using the mark_next idx or mark_previous
idx methods. The mark_names method will return a list of the names of
all marks.
Marks also have a gravity, which can be modified with the
mark_gravity name ?direction? method, which affects what happens
when text is inserted at the mark. Suppose we have the text "ac" with a
mark in between that we'll symbolize with a pipe, i.e., "a|c." If the
gravity of that mark is right (the default), the mark attaches itself to the
"c." If the new text "b" is inserted at the mark, the mark will remain
stuck to the "c," and so the new text will be inserted before the mark,
i.e., "ab|c." If the gravity is instead left, the mark attaches itself to the
"a," and so new text will be inserted after the mark, i.e., "a|bc."

--- Strana 232 ---
15.7. Images and Widgets
Like canvas widgets, text widgets can contain not only text but also
images and any other Tk widgets (including a frame, itself containing
many other widgets). In a sense, this allows the text widget to work as
a geometry manager in its own right. The ability to add images and
widgets within the text opens up a world of possibilities for your
program.
Images are added to a text widget at a particular index, with the
image specified as an existing Tk image. Other options that allow you
to fine-tune padding, etc.
flowers = PhotoImage(file='flowers.gif') 
text.image_create('sel.first', image=flowers)
Other widgets are added to a text widget in much the same way as
images. The widget being added must be a descendant of the text
widget in the widget hierarchy.
b = ttk.Button(text, text='Push Me') 
text.window_create('1.0', window=b)

--- Strana 233 ---
15.8. Even More
Text widgets can do many more things. Here, we'll briefly mention just
a few more of them. For details on any of these, see the reference
manual.
Search
The text widget includes a powerful search method that allows you to
locate a piece of text within the widget. This is useful for a "Find"
dialog, as one obvious example. You can search backward or forward
from a particular position or within a given range, specify the search
term using exact text, case insensitive, or via regular expressions, find
one or all occurrences of the search term, etc.
Modifications, Undo and Redo
The text widget keeps track of whether changes have been made to
the text (useful to know whether it needs to be saved to a file, for
example). We can query (or change) using the edit_modified ?bool?
method. There is also a complete multi-level undo/redo mechanism,
managed automatically by the widget when we set its 
undo
configuration option to true. Calling edit_undo or edit_redo modifies
the current text using information stored on the undo/redo stack.
Eliding Text
Text widgets can include text that is not displayed. This is known as
"elided" text, and is made available using the elide configuration option
for tags. It can be used to implement an outliner, a "folding" code editor,
or even to bury extra meta-data intermixed with displayed text. When
specifying positions within elided text, you have to be a bit more
careful. Methods that work with positions have extra options to either
include or ignore the elided text.
Introspection

--- Strana 234 ---
Like most Tk widgets, the text widget goes out of its way to expose
information about its internal state. We've seen this in terms of the get
method, widget configuration options, names and cget for both tags and
marks, etc. There is even more information available that can be useful
for a wide variety of tasks. Check out the debug, dlineinfo, bbox, count,
and dump methods in the reference manual.
Peering
The Tk text widget allows the same underlying text data structure
(containing all the text, marks, tags, images, etc.) to be shared
between two or more different text widgets. This is known as peering
and is controlled via the peer method.

--- Strana 235 ---
16. Treeview
  ttk.Treeview
  https://tkdocs.com/man/ttk_treeview
A treeview widget displays a hierarchy of items and allows users to
browse through it. One or more attributes of each item can be
displayed as columns to the right of the tree. It can be used to build
user interfaces similar to the tree display you'd find in file managers
like the macOS Finder or Windows Explorer. As with most Tk
widgets, it offers incredible flexibility so it can be customized to suit a
wide range of situations.
Treeview widgets.
Treeview widgets are created using the ttk.Treeview class:

--- Strana 236 ---
tree = ttk.Treeview(parent)
Horizontal and vertical scrollbars can be added in the usual manner
if desired.

--- Strana 237 ---
16.1. Adding Items to the Tree
To do anything useful with the treeview, we'll need to add one or
more items to it. Each item represents a single node in the tree,
whether a leaf node or an internal node containing other nodes.
Items are referred to by a unique id. You can assign this id when the
item is first created, or the widget can automatically generate one.
Items are created by inserting them into the tree, using the
treeview's insert method. To insert an item, we need to know where
to insert it. That means specifying the parent item and where within
the list of the parent's existing children the new item should be
inserted.
The treeview widget automatically creates a root node (which is
not displayed). Its id is the empty string. It serves as the parent of the
first level of items that are added. Positions within the list of a node's
children are specified by index (0 being the first, and end meaning
insert after all existing children).
Normally, you'll also specify the name of each item, which is the
text displayed in the tree. Other options allow you to add an image
beside the name, specify whether the node is open or closed, etc.
# Inserted at the root, program chooses id: 
tree.insert('', 'end', 'widgets', text='Widget Tour') 
  
# Same thing, but inserted as first child: 
tree.insert('', 0, 'gallery', text='Applications') 
 
# Treeview chooses the id: 
id = tree.insert('', 'end', text='Tutorial') 
 
# Inserted underneath an existing node: 
tree.insert('widgets', 'end', text='Canvas') 
tree.insert(id, 'end', text='Tree')
Inserting the item returns the id of the newly created item.

--- Strana 238 ---
16.2. Rearranging Items
A node (and its descendants, if any) can be moved to a different
location in the tree. The only restriction is that a node cannot be
moved underneath one of its descendants, for obvious reasons. As
before, the target location is specified via an existing parent node,
and a position within its list of children.
tree.move('widgets', 'gallery', 'end')  # move widgets under 
gallery
Items can be detached from the tree, which removes the item and its
descendants from the hierarchy, but does not destroy the items. This
allows us to later reinsert them with move.
tree.detach('widgets')
Items can also be deleted, which does completely destroy the item
and its descendants.
tree.delete('widgets')
To traverse the hierarchy, there are methods to find the parent of an
item (parent item), its next or previous sibling (next item and prev
item), and return the list of children of an item (children item).
We can control whether or not the item is open and shows its
children by modifying the open item configuration option.
tree.item('widgets', open=TRUE) 
isopen = tree.item('widgets', 'open')

--- Strana 239 ---
16.3. Displaying Information for each Item
The treeview can display one or more additional pieces of
information about each item. These are shown as columns to the
right of the main tree display.
Each column is referenced by a symbolic name that we assign.
We can specify the list of columns using the columns configuration
option of the treeview widget, either when first creating the widget, or
later on.
tree = ttk.Treeview(root, columns=('size', 'modified')) 
tree['columns'] = ('size', 'modified', 'owner')
We can specify the width of the column, how the display of item
information in the column is aligned, and more. We can also provide
information about the heading of the column, such as the text to
display, an optional image, alignment, and a script to invoke when
the item is clicked (e.g. to sort the tree).
tree.column('size', width=100, anchor='center') 
tree.heading('size', text='Size')
What to display in each column for each item can be specified
individually by using the set method. You can also provide a list
describing what to display in all the columns for the item. This is
done using the values item configuration option. It can be used either
when first inserting the item or to update it later). It takes a list of
values. The order of the list must be the same as the order in the
columns widget configuration option.
tree.set('widgets', 'size', '12KB') 
size = tree.set('widgets', 'size') 
tree.insert('', 'end', text='Listbox', values=('15KB', 
'Yesterday', 'mark'))

--- Strana 240 ---
16.4. Item Appearance and Events
Like the text and canvas widgets, the treeview widget uses tags to
modify the appearance of items in the tree. We can assign a list of
tags to each item using the tags item configuration option (again,
when creating the item or later on).
Configuration options can then be specified on the tag, which will
then apply to all items having that tag. Valid tag options include
foreground (text color), background, font, and image (not used if the
item specifies its own image).
We can also create event bindings on tags, which lets us capture
mouse clicks, keyboard events etc.
tree.insert('', 'end', text='button', tags=('ttk', 'simple')) 
tree.tag_configure('ttk', background='yellow') 
tree.tag_bind('ttk', '<1>', itemClicked)   
# the item clicked can be found via tree.focus()
The treeview will generate virtual events <<TreeviewSelect>>,
<<TreeviewOpen>>, and <<TreeviewClose>>, which allow us to monitor
changes to the widget made by users. We can use the selection
method to determine the current selection (the selection can also be
changed from your program).

--- Strana 241 ---
16.5. Customizing the Display
There are many aspects of how the treeview widget is displayed that
we can customize. We've already seen some of them, such as the
text of items, fonts and colors, names of column headings, and
more. Here are a few additional ones.
Specify the desired number of rows to show using the height
widget configuration option.
Control the width of each column using the column's width or
minwidth options. The column holding the tree can be accessed
with the symbolic name #0. The overall requested width for the
widget is based on the sum of the column widths.
Choose which columns to display and the order to display them
in using the displaycolumns widget configuration option.
You can optionally hide one or both of the column headings or
the tree itself (leaving just the columns) using the show widget
configuration option (default is "tree headings" to show both).
You can specify whether a single item or multiple items can be
selected by users via the selectmode widget configuration
option, passing browse (single item), extended (multiple items,
the default), or none.

--- Strana 242 ---
17. Styles and Themes
The themed aspect of the modern Tk widgets is one of the most
powerful and exciting aspects of the newer widget set. Yet, it's also one
of the most confusing.
This chapter explains styles (which control how widgets like buttons
look) and themes (which are a collection of styles that define how all the
widgets in your application look). Changing themes can give your
application an entirely different look.
Applying different themes.
Note that it's not just colors that have changed, but the actual shape of
individual widgets. Styles and themes are extremely flexible.
Why?

--- Strana 243 ---
However, before you get carried away, very few applications will benefit
from switching themes like this. Some games or educational programs
might be exceptions. Using the standard Tk theme for a given platform
will display widgets the way that people expect to see them, particularly
if they're running macOS and Windows.
On Linux systems, there's far less standardization of look and feel. Users
expect (and are more comfortable with) some variability and "coolness."
Because different widget sets (typically GTK and QT) are used by window
managers, control panels, and other system utilities, Tk can't seamlessly blend in
with the current settings on any particular system. Most of the Linux screenshots in
this book use Tk's alt theme. Despite users being accustomed to variability, there
are limits to what most users will accept. The styling of core widgets in Tk's classic
widget set, matching circa-1992 OSF/Motif, is a prime example.
Styles and themes, used in a more targeted manner and with significant
restraint, can have a role to play in modern applications. This chapter
explains why and when you might want to use them and how to go
about doing so. We'll begin by drawing a parallel between Tk's styles
and themes and another realm of software development.
Understanding Styles and Themes
If you're familiar with web development, you know about cascading
stylesheets (CSS). There are two ways it can be used to customize the
appearance of an element in your HTML page. In the first way, you add
a bunch of style attributes (fonts, colors, borders, etc.) directly to an
element in your HTML code via the style attribute. For example:
<label style="color:red; font-size:14pt; font-weight:bold; 
background-color:yellow;">Meltdown imminent!</label>
The other way to use CSS is to attach a class to each widget via the
class attribute. The details of how elements of that class appear are
provided elsewhere, often in a separate CSS file. You can attach the
same class to many elements, and they will all have the same
appearance. You don't need to repeat the full details for every element.
More importantly, you separate the logical content of your site (HTML)
from its appearance (CSS).

--- Strana 244 ---
<label class="danger">Meltdown imminent!</label> 
... 
<style type="text/css"> 
label.danger {color:red; font-size:14pt; font-weight:bold; 
background-color:yellow;} 
</style>
Back to Tk.
In the classic Tk widgets, all appearance customizations require
specifying each detail on individual widgets, akin to always using
the style HTML attribute.
In the themed Tk widgets, all appearance customizations are made
via attaching a style to a widget, akin to using the class HTML
attribute. Separately, you define how widgets with that style will
appear, akin to writing CSS.
Unlike with HTML, you can't freely mix and match. You can't
customize some themed entries or buttons with styles, and others
by directly changing appearance options.
Yes, there are a few exceptions, like labels where you can customize the
font and colors through both styles and configuration options.
Benefits
So why use styles and themes in Tk? They take the fine-grained details
of appearance decisions away from individual instances of widgets.
That makes for cleaner code and less repetition. If you have 20 entry
widgets in your application, you don't need to repeat the same
appearance details every time you create one (or write a wrapper
function). You just assign them a style.
Styles also put all appearance decisions in one place. And because
styles for a button and styles for a widget can share common elements,
it promotes consistency and improves reuse.
Styles also have many benefits for widget authors. Widgets can delegate
most appearance decisions to styles. A widget author no longer has to
hardcode logic to the effect of "when the state is disabled, consult the
'disabledforeground' configuration option and use that for the foreground color." Not
only did that make coding widgets longer (and more repetitive), but it also restricted

--- Strana 245 ---
how a widget could be changed based on its state. If the widget author hadn't
coded in logic to change the font when the state changed, you as an application
developer using the widget were out of luck.
Using styles, widget authors don't need to provide code for every possible
appearance option. That not only simplifies the widget but paradoxically ensures
that a wider range of appearances can be set, including those the widget author
may not have anticipated.

--- Strana 246 ---
17.1. Using Existing Themes
Before delving into the weightier matters of tastefully and selectively
modifying and applying styles to improve the usability of your application
and cleanliness of your code, let's deal with the fun bits: using existing
themes to completely reskin your application.
Themes are identified by a name. You can obtain the names of all
available themes:
>>> s = ttk.Style() 
>>> s.theme_names() 
('aqua', 'step', 'clam', 'alt', 'default', 'classic')
Tkinter encapsulates all style manipulations in the ttk.Style class. We'll
therefore need an instance of that class for this and other operations.
Built-in themes.
Besides the built-in themes (alt, default, clam, and classic), macOS
includes a theme named aqua to match the system-wide style, while
Windows includes themes named vista, winxpnative, and winnative.
Only one theme can ever be active at a time. To obtain the name of
the theme currently in use, use the following:
>>> s.theme_use() 
'aqua'

--- Strana 247 ---
This API, which was originally targeted for Tk 8.6, was back-ported to Tk
8.5.9. If you're using an earlier version of Tk getting this info is a bit trickier.
Switching to a new theme can be done with:
s.theme_use('themename')
What does this actually do? Obviously, it sets the current theme to the
indicated theme. Doing this, therefore, replaces all the currently
available styles with the set of styles defined by the theme. Finally, it
refreshes all widgets, so that they take on the appearance described by
the new theme.
Third-Party Themes
With a bit of looking around, you can find some existing add-on themes
available for download. A good starting point is https://wiki.tcl-
lang.org/page/List+of+ttk+Themes.
Though themes can be defined in any language that Tk supports,
most that you will find are written in Tcl. How can you install them so that
they are available to use in your application?
As an example, let's use the "awdark" theme, available from
https://sourceforge.net/projects/tcl-awthemes/. Download and unzip the
awthemes-*.zip file somewhere. You'll notice it contains a bunch of .tcl
files, a subdirectory i containing more directory with images used by the
theme, etc.
One of the files is named pkgIndex.tcl. This identifies it as a Tcl
package, which is similar to a Python module. If we look inside, you'll
see a bunch of lines like package ifneeded awdark 7.7. Here, awdark is
the name of the package, and 7.7 is its version number. It's not unusual,
as in this case, for a single pkgIndex.tcl file to provide several
packages.
To use it, we need to tell Tcl where to find the package (via adding its
directory to Tcl's auto_path) and the name of the package to use.
root.tk.call('lappend', 'auto_path', '/full/path/to/awthemes-
9.3.1') 
root.tk.call('package', 'require', 'awdark')

--- Strana 248 ---
If the theme is instead implemented as a single Tcl source file, without a
pkgIndex.tcl, you can make it available like this:
root.tk.call('source', '/full/path/to/themefile.tcl')
You should now be able to use the theme in your own application, just
as you would any of the built-in themes.

--- Strana 249 ---
17.2. Using Styles
We'll now tackle the more difficult issue of how to take full advantage of
styles and themes within your application, not just reskinning it with an
existing theme.
Definitions
We first need to introduce a few essential concepts.
Widget Class
A widget class identifies the type of a particular widget, whether it is a
button, a label, a canvas, etc. All themed widgets have a default class.
Buttons have the class TButton, labels TLabel, etc.
Widget State
A widget state allows a single widget to have more than one appearance
or behavior, depending on things like mouse position, different state
options set by the application, and so on.
As you'll recall, all themed widgets maintain a set of binary state flags,
accessed by the state and instate methods. The flags are: active,
disabled, focus, pressed, selected, background, readonly, alternate, and
invalid. All widgets have the same set of state flags, though they may
ignore some of them (e.g., a label widget would likely ignore an invalid
state flag). See the themed widget page in the reference manual for the
exact meaning of each state flag.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/ttk_widget
Style
A style describes the appearance (or appearances) of a widget class. All
themed widgets having the same widget class will have the same
appearance(s).

--- Strana 250 ---
Styles are referred to by the name of the widget class they describe.
For example, the style TButton defines the appearance of all widgets
with the class TButton.
Styles know about different states, and one style can define different
appearances based on a widget's state. For example, a style can
specify how a widget's appearance should change if the pressed state
flag is set.
Theme
A theme is a collection of styles. While each style is widget-specific (one
for buttons, one for entries, etc.), a theme collects many styles together.
All styles in the same theme will be designed to visually "fit" together
with each other. (Tk doesn't technically restrict bad design or judgment,
unfortunately!)
Using a particular theme in an application really means that, by
default, the appearance of each widget will be controlled by the style
within that theme responsible for that widget class.
Style Names
Every style has a name. If you're going to modify a style, create a new
one, or use a style for a widget, you need to know its name.
How do you know what the names of the styles are? If you have a
particular widget, and you want to know what style it is currently using,
you can first check the value of its style configuration option. If that is
empty, it means the widget is using the default style for the widget. You
can retrieve that via the widget's class. For example:
>>> b = ttk.Button() 
>>> b['style'] 
'' 
>>> b.winfo_class() 
'TButton'
In this case, the style that is being used is TButton. The default styles for
other themed widgets are named similarly, e.g., TEntry, TLabel, etc.
It's always wise to check the specifics. For example, the treeview widget's
class is Treeview, not TTreeview.

--- Strana 251 ---
Beyond the default styles, though, styles can be named pretty much
anything. You might create your own style (or use a theme that has a
style) named FunButton, NuclearReactorButton, or even GuessWhatIAm
(not a smart choice).
More 
often, 
you'll 
find 
names 
like 
Fun.TButton 
or
NuclearReactor.TButton, which suggest variations of a base style; as
you'll see, this is something Tk supports for creating and modifying
styles.
The ability to retrieve a list of all currently available styles is currently not
supported. This will likely appear in Tk 8.7 in the form of a new command,
ttk::style theme styles to return the list of styles implemented by a
theme. It also proposes adding a style method for all widgets, so you don't have to
examine both the widget's style configuration option and its class. See TIP #584
(https://tip.tcl.tk/584).
Applying a Style
To use a style means to apply that style to an individual widget. If you
know the name of the style you want to use, and which widget to apply it
to, it's easy. Setting the style can be done at creation time:
b = ttk.Button(parent, text='Hello', style='Fun.TButton')
As well, a widget's style can be changed at any time with the style
configuration option:
b['style'] = 'Emergency.TButton'
Creating a Simple Style
So how do we create a new style like Emergency.TButton?
In situations like this, you're creating a new style similar to an existing
one but varies in a certain aspect. This is the most common reason for
creating new styles.
For example, you want most of the buttons in your application to keep
their normal appearance, but have certain "emergency" buttons
highlighted differently. Creating a new style (e.g., Emergency.TButton),
derived from the base style (TButton), is the appropriate thing to do.

--- Strana 252 ---
Prepending another name (Emergency) followed by a dot onto an
existing style creates a new style derived from the existing one. The new
style will have exactly the same options as the existing one except for
the indicated differences:
s.configure('Emergency.TButton', font='helvetica 24', 
foreground='red', padding=10)
You could then apply that style to an individual button widget using its
style configuration option, as shown earlier. Every other button widget
would retain its normal appearance.
How do you know what options are available to change for a given
style? That requires diving a little deeper inside styles.
You may have existing code using the classic widgets that you'd like to
move to the themed widgets. Most appearance changes made to classic
widgets through configuration options can probably be dropped. For those
that can't, you may need to create a new style, as shown above.
State-specific appearance changes can be treated similarly. In classic Tk, several
widgets supported a few state changes via configuration options. For example,
setting a button's state option to disabled would draw it with a greyed-out label.
Some allowed an additional state, active, which represented a different
appearance. You could control the appearance of the widget in different states via
additional configuration options, e.g., 
foreground, 
disabledforeground, and
activeforeground.
State changes via configuration options should be changed to use the state
method on themed widgets. Configuration options to modify the appearance of a
widget when in a particular state should be dealt with in the style.
Classic Tk widgets also supported a very primitive form of styles that you may
encounter. This used the option database, a now-obscure front end to X11-style
configuration files.
In classic Tk, all buttons had the same class (Button), all labels had the same class
(Label), etc. You could use this widget class both for introspection and for changing
options globally through the option database. It let you say, for example, that all
buttons should have a red background.
A few classic Tk widgets, including frame and toplevel widgets, let you change the
widget class of a particular widget when it was first created by providing a class
configuration option. For example, you could specify that one particular frame
widget had a class of SpecialFrame, while others would have the default class

--- Strana 253 ---
Frame. You could use the option database to change the appearance of just the
SpecialFrame frames.
Styles and themes take that simple idea and give it rocket boosters.

--- Strana 254 ---
17.3. What's Inside a Style?
If all you want to do is use a style or create a new one with a few
tweaks, you now know everything you need. If, however, you want to
make more substantial changes, things start to get "interesting."
Elements
While each style controls a single type of widget, each widget is usually
composed of smaller pieces, called elements. It's the job of the style
author to construct the entire widget out of these smaller elements. What
these elements are depends on the widget.
Here's an example of a button. It might have a border on the very
outside. That's one element. Just inside that, there may be a focus ring.
Normally, it's just the background color, but could be highlighted when a
user tabs into the button. So that's a second element. Then there might
be some spacing between that focus ring and the button's label. That
spacing is a third element. Finally, the text label of the button itself is a
fourth element.
Possible elements of a button.
Why might the style author have divided it up that way? If you have one
part of the widget that may be in a different location from another or
might be a different color than another, it may be a good candidate for
an element. Note that this is just one example of how a button could be

--- Strana 255 ---
constructed from elements. Different styles and themes could (and do)
accomplish this in different ways.
Here is a second example, for a vertical scrollbar. It consists of a
"trough" element, which contains other elements. These include the up
and down arrow elements at either end and a "thumb" element in the
middle (it might have other elements too, like borders).
Possible elements of a scrollbar.
Layout
Besides specifying which elements make up a widget, a style also
defines how those elements are arranged within the widget. This is
called their layout. In the button example, we had a label element inside
a spacing element, inside a focus ring element, inside a border element.
Its logical layout is this:
border { 
    focus { 
        spacing { 
            label 
        } 
    } 
}

--- Strana 256 ---
We can ask Tk for the layout of the TButton style:
>>> s.layout('TButton') 
[("Button.border", {"children": [("Button.focus", {"children": 
[("Button.spacing", 
{"children": [("Button.label", {"sticky": "nswe"})], "sticky": 
"nswe"})],  
"sticky": "nswe"})], "sticky": "nswe", "border": "1"})] 
If we clean this up and format it a bit, we get something with this
structure:
Button.border -sticky nswe -border 1 -children { 
    Button.focus -sticky nswe -children { 
        Button.spacing -sticky nswe -children { 
            Button.label -sticky nswe 
        } 
    } 
}
This starts to make sense; we have four elements, named
Button.border, Button.focus, Button.spacing, and Button.label. Each of
these has different element options, such as children, sticky, and
border that specify layout or sizes. Without getting into too much detail
at this point, we can clearly see the nested layout, based on the
children and sticky attributes.
Styles uses a simplified version of Tk's pack geometry manager to specify
element layout. This is detailed in the style reference manual page.
  https://tkdocs.com/man/ttk_style
Element Options
Each of these elements has a number of different options. For example,
a label element has a font and a foreground color. An element
representing the thumb of a scrollbar may have an option to set its
background color or another to provide the width of a border. These can
be customized to adjust how the elements within the overall widget look.
You can determine what options are available for each element?
Here's an example of checking what options are available for the label

--- Strana 257 ---
inside the button (which we know from the layout method is identified as
Button.label):
>>> s.element_options('Button.label') 
('compound', 'space', 'text', 'font', 'foreground', 'underline', 
'width', 'anchor', 'justify', 
'wraplength', 'embossed', 'image', 'stipple', 'background')
In the next sections, we'll look at the not-entirely-straightforward way to
work with element options.

--- Strana 258 ---
17.4. Manipulating Styles
In this section, we'll see how to change the style's appearance by
modifying style options. You can do this either by modifying an existing
style, or more typically, by creating a new style. We saw how to create a
simple style that was derived from another one earlier:
s.configure('Emergency.TButton', font='helvetica 24', 
foreground='red', padding=10)
Modifying a Style Option
Modifying an option for an existing style is done in a similar fashion as
modifying any other configuration option, by specifying the style, name
of the option, and new value:
s.configure('TButton', font='helvetica 24')
You'll learn more about what the valid options are shortly.
If you modify an existing style, like we've done here with TButton, that
modification will apply to all widgets using that style (so by default, all
buttons). That may well be what you want to do.
To retrieve the current value of an option, use the lookup method:
>>> s.lookup('TButton', 'font') 
'helvetica 24'
State Specific Style Options
Besides the normal configuration options for the style, the widget author
may have specified different options to use when the widget is in a
particular widget state. For example, when a button is disabled, it may
change the button's label to grey.
Remember that the state is composed of one or more state flags (or their
negation), as set by the widget's state method, or queried via the instate

--- Strana 259 ---
method.
You can specify state-specific variations for one or more of a style's
configuration options with a map. For each configuration option, you can
specify a list of widget states, along with the value that option should be
assigned when the widget is in that state.
The following example provides for the following variations from a
button's normal appearance:
when the widget is in the disabled state, the background color
should be set to #d9d9d9
when the widget is in the active state (mouse over it), the
background color should be set to #ececec
when the widget is in the disabled state, the foreground color should
be set to #a3a3a3 (this is in addition to the background color change
we already noted)
when the widget is in the state where the button is pressed, and the
widget is not disabled, the relief should be set to sunken
s.map('TButton',  
    background=[('disabled','#d9d9d9'), ('active','#ececec')], 
    foreground=[('disabled','#a3a3a3')], 
    relief=[('pressed', '!disabled', 'sunken')])
Because widget states can contain multiple flags, more than one state may
match an option (e.g., pressed and pressed !disabled will both match if the
widget's pressed state flag is set). The list of states is evaluated in the order
you provide in the map command. The first state in the list that matches is used.

--- Strana 260 ---
17.5. Sound Difficult to you?
So you now know that styles are made up of elements, which have a
variety of options, and are composed together in a particular layout. You
can change various options on styles to make all widgets using the style
appear differently. Any widgets using that style take on the appearance
that the style defines. Themes collect an entire set of related styles,
making it easy to change the appearance of your entire user interface.
So what makes styles and themes so difficult in practice? Three
things. First:
You can only modify options for a style, not element options (except
sometimes).
We talked earlier about how to discover what elements were used in the
style by examining the style's layout, and also how to discover what
options were available for each element. But when we went to make
changes to a style, we seemed to be configuring an option for the style,
without specifying an individual element. What's going on?
Again, using our button example, we had an element Button.label,
which, among other things, had a font configuration option. What
happens is that when that Button.label element is drawn, it looks at the
font configuration option set on the style to determine what font to draw
itself in.
To understand why, you need to know that when a style includes an
element as a piece of it, that element does not maintain any (element-
specific) storage. In particular, it does not store any configuration options
itself. When it needs to retrieve options, it does so via the containing style, which is
passed to the element. Individual elements, therefore, are "flyweight" objects in
GoF pattern parlance.
Similarly, any other elements will lookup their configuration options from
options set on the style. What if two elements use the same
configuration option (like a background color)? Because there is only
one background configuration option, stored in the style, both elements
will use the same background color. You can't have one element use
one background color, and the other use a different background color.

--- Strana 261 ---
Except when you can. There are a few nasty, widget-specific things called
sublayouts in the current implementation, which let you sometimes modify
just a single element, via configuring an option like TButton.Label (rather
than just TButton, the name of the style).
Some styles also provide additional configuration options that let you specify what
element the option effects. For example, the TCheckbutton style provides a
background option for the main part of the widget and an indicatorbackground
option for the box that shows whether it is checked.
Are the cases where you can do this documented? Is there some way to introspect
to determine when you can do this? Sometimes to both (believe it or not, this is an
improvement; the answer to both used to be a clear "no"). You can sometimes find
some of the style's options by calling the style's configure method without
providing any new configuration options. The reference manual pages for each
themed widget now generally include a styling options section that lists options
that may be available to change.
This is one area of the themed widget API that continues to evolve over time.
The second difficulty is also related to modifying style options:
Options that are available don't necessarily have an effect, and it's
not an error to modify a bogus option.
You'll sometimes try to change an option that is supposed to exist
according to element options, but it will have no effect. For example, you
can't modify the background color of a button in the aqua theme used by
macOS. While there are valid reasons for these cases, it's not easy to
discover them, which can make experimenting frustrating at times.
Perhaps more frustrating when you're experimenting is that specifying
an incorrect style name or option name does not generate an error.
When doing a configure or lookup you can, in fact, specify any name at
all for a style, and specify any name at all for an option. So if you're
bored with the background and font options, feel free to configure a
dowhatimean option. It may not do anything, but it's not an error. Again, it
may make it hard to know what you should be modifying and what you
shouldn't.
This is one of the downsides of having a very lightweight and dynamic
system. You can create new styles by just providing their name when
configuring style options; this means you don't need to explicitly create a

--- Strana 262 ---
style object. At the same time, this does open itself to errors. It's also not possible
to find out what styles currently exist or are used. And because style options are
really just a front end for element options, and the elements in a style can change
at any time, it's not necessarily obvious that options should be restricted to those
referred to by current elements alone, which may themselves not all be
introspectable.
Finally, here is the last thing that makes styles and themes so difficult:
The elements available, the names of those elements, which
options are available or have an effect for each of those elements,
and which are used for a particular widget can be different in every
theme.
So? Remember, the default theme for each platform (Windows, macOS,
and Linux) is different (which is a good thing). Some implications of this:
1. If you want to define a new type of widget (or a variation of an
existing widget) for your application, you'll need to do it separately
and differently for each theme your application uses (i.e., at least
three for a cross-platform application).
2. The elements and options available will differ for each
theme/platform, meaning you may have to come up with a quite
different customization approach for each theme/platform.
3. The elements, names, and element options available with each
theme are not typically documented (outside of reading the theme
definition files themselves), but are generally identified via theme
introspection (which we'll see soon). Because all themes aren't
available on all platforms (e.g., aqua is only available on macOS),
you'll need ready access to every platform and theme you need to
run on.
Consider trying to customize a button. You know it uses the TButton
style. But that style is implemented using a different theme on each
platform. If you examine the layout of that style in each theme, you'll
discover each uses different elements, arranged differently. If you try to
find the advertised options available for each element, you see those are
different too. And of course, even if an option is nominally available, it
may not have an effect).

--- Strana 263 ---
The bottom line is that in classic Tk, where you had the ability to
modify any of a large set of attributes for an individual widget, you'd be
able to do something on one platform and it would sorta-kinda work (but
probably need tweaking) on others. In themed Tk, the easy option just
isn't there, and you're pretty much forced to do it the right way if you
want your application to work with multiple themes/platforms. It's more
work upfront.

--- Strana 264 ---
17.6. Advanced: More on Elements
While that's about as far as we're going to go on styles and themes in
this book, for curious users and those who want to delve further into
creating new themes, we can provide a few more interesting tidbits
about elements.
Because elements are the building blocks of styles and themes, it
begs the question of "where do elements come from?" Practically
speaking, we can say that elements are normally created in C code and
conform to a particular API that the theming engine understands.
At the very lowest level, elements come from something called an
element factory. At present, there is a default one, which most themes
use, and uses Tk drawing routines to create elements. A second allows
you to create elements from images and is actually accessible at the
script level using the ttk::style element create method (from Tcl). Any
image format supported by Tk is available, including scalable image
formats like SVG, if you have the right extension. Finally, there is a third,
Windows-specific engine using the underlying "Visual Styles" platform
API.
If a theme uses elements created via a platform's native widgets, the
calls to use those native widgets will normally appear within that theme's
element specification code. Of course, themes whose elements depend
on native widgets or API calls can only run on the platforms that support
them.
Themes will then take a set of elements and use those to assemble
the styles that are actually used by the widgets. And given the whole
idea of themes is that several styles can share the same appearance,
it's not surprising that different styles share the same elements.
So while the TButton style includes a Button.padding element, and the
TEntry style includes an Entry.padding element, underneath, these
padding elements are more than likely one and the same. They may
appear differently, but that's because of different configuration options,
which as we recall, are stored in the style that uses the element.
It's also probably not surprising to find out that a theme can provide a
set of common options that are used as defaults for each style if the
style doesn't specify them otherwise. This means that if pretty much
everything in an entire theme has a green background, the theme

--- Strana 265 ---
doesn't need to explicitly say this for each style. This uses a root style
named .. After all, if Fun.TButton can inherit from TButton, why can't
TButton inherit from .?
Finally, it's worth having a look at how existing themes are defined,
both at the C code level in Tk's C library, but also via the Tk scripts
found in Tk's "library/ttk" directory or in third-party themes. Search for
Ttk_RegisterElementSpec in Tk's C library to see how elements are
specified.

--- Strana 266 ---
18. Case Study: IDLE
Modernization
This chapter presents a case study of modernizing the appearance of a
substantial Tk-based application.
This chapter is currently (May 2019) a work in progress. The code here is
slowly finding its way into the Python source tree, but most is not there
yet. You can find temporary snapshots on GitHub.
IDLE (Integrated DeveLopment Environment) is the standard Python
development environment that is bundled with every Python release. It
consists of an interactive Python shell, editors with syntax highlighting,
a debugger, etc. Its user interface is written in Tkinter.

--- Strana 267 ---
Overview of IDLE user interface (on Linux).
IDLE was never intended to be a replacement for more full-featured
development environments. Because it is relatively simple and
integrated, and because it is bundled with Python, it is popular for those
learning (and teaching) the language.
Originally created by Python BDFL Guido van Rossum in 1998, IDLE
has been incrementally added to over the years by multiple other

--- Strana 268 ---
developers. But with limited development effort spent on it, it was
showing its age, especially on platforms (e.g., macOS) infrequently
used by those improving IDLE.
A Python Central comparison of IDE's described IDLE this way:
All those features are, in fact, present, but they do not really make
an IDE. In fact, while IDLE offers some of the features you expect
from an IDE, it does so without even being a satisfactory text
editor. The interface is buggy and fails to take into account how
Python works, especially in the interactive shell, the auto-
completion is useless outside the standard library, and the editing
functionality is so limited that no serious Python programmer —
heck, no serious typist — could use it full-time.
 
If you use an IDE, it should not be IDLE.
With its buggy and dated user interface, IDLE was at some risk of being
removed from the Python distribution altogether. Yet, because of the
relative simplicity and it being bundled, there were a number of people,
particularly those teaching Python, eager to see IDLE leap forward.
IDLE was obviously a great candidate to be modernized, using
newer Tk features like the themed widgets to help spur some redesign.
But it was about more than just swapping widgets. Many improvements
could be made just by changing how the "classic" widgets were being
used, to better reflect a more modern design aesthetic.
Because IDLE, which is an application, was a part of Python's standard
library (i.e., 99% designed to be used by other code), there were many
policies and procedures not really appropriate for an application that made
changes difficult. Removing some of those roadblocks (see PEP 434) was a
significant step required for the types of changes being discussed here.

--- Strana 269 ---
18.1. Project Goals
As you can imagine, modernizing a large application like this, based on
"classic" Tkinter, was not entirely straightforward. In this chapter, I'll
walk through some of the user interface changes that were made and
why.
Everyone involved wanted to see IDLE look a lot better than it did,
though nobody was under the illusion that it was going to turn into a
stunning example of cutting-edge design. But something that fit in
more, so that people could learn about Python without getting
distracted by the clumsiness of their tools, seemed doable.
The goal also wasn't to try to compete with Python IDE's more
commonly used by professional programmers, such as PyCharm,
WingIDE, PyDev, Komodo, etc. Though some more experienced
Python developers did use IDLE, either sporadically or regularly, it
primarily needed to appeal to newcomers to the language, and often
those new to programming altogether.
There has been no shortage of previous attempts to radically
advance IDLE, resulting in a number of different forks that boasted all
kinds of improvements. Many of them used other GUI toolkits or
modules that weren't part of the standard library. It was important here
to stay with Tkinter and the standard library because we wanted to
ensure every improvement could, over time, make it into the official
version that ships with Python, rather than becoming just another fork.
As well, the hope was to make IDLE easier to contribute to. This
suggested pruning down a substantial volume of code, removing some
redundancies and inconsistencies, cleaning up some of the more
complex pieces, simplifying interactions between system components,
etc. There was also a substantial list of reported bugs that we hoped to
make a dent in.
While no less important, I'll largely defer discussion of the substantial
issues surrounding software architecture, backward compatibility
(including systems running Tk 8.4, pre-ttk, which received only a few
selective improvements), etc.
Throughout this chapter, you'll find links to individual issues in
Python's issue tracking system, which often provide additional insight

--- Strana 270 ---
into various peoples' thought processes around changes.
As you'll see, this chapter highlights many of the shortcomings of IDLE's
user interface. This is done mainly for emphasis because many of the
problems shown here are common to many applications and user
interfaces. I have only the highest respect for the people who donated their limited
time and resources to this open source project and had to consciously make
tradeoffs between time, features, and user interface, all within the context of a
decidedly non-trivial codebase.

--- Strana 271 ---
18.2. Menus
The very first change that was made was to remove the archaic tearoff
menus. The macOS version of Tk doesn't even support them, but they
were 
still 
there 
on 
Windows 
and 
X11. 
See
[bugs.python.org/issue13884].
Tearoff menus on Windows and Linux.
The change here was to add a "tearoff=0" option to the few places in
the code where these menus were created.
At least that was easy.
There were also several bugs where items in the menu were not
properly disabled when the feature was not available. This led to either
menu items that did nothing (confusing for learners) or error dialogs
that said little more than "you can't do that."

--- Strana 272 ---
18.3. Main Window
One good thing about IDLE is that revolving around an editor and a
shell, the majority of it really is a Tk text widget, and there was very little
about its user interface that had to change. But even in the main
window, which is mostly just a text widget, there were improvements to
be had.
The following images show the original version of IDLE's shell
window, pre-modernization, just as someone would see when they first
launched the program.
Looking at them, what improvements would you make?
Main IDLE window on macOS.

--- Strana 273 ---
Main IDLE window on Windows.
Main IDLE window on Linux.
Default Font
The first change that was made had to do with the default font. IDLE
hardcoded 10 point Courier and used that on all platforms. This didn't
actually look too bad in Windows, was ok on Linux, but looked terrible

--- Strana 274 ---
on macOS; see [bugs.python.org/issue24745]. Sure this could be
changed through a preferences dialog, but the defaults certainly didn't
leave a good impression.
While one option would simply be to write the code to pick a good
font depending on which platform we're running on, instead the default
was changed to use Tk's built-in TkFixedFont, which provides a better
default on each platform.
You can see the differences in the screenshots below. Notice how
the new fonts seem to match better with system terminal windows that
are shown.
IDLE main window using TkFixedFont (macOS).

--- Strana 275 ---
IDLE main window using TkFixedFont (Windows).
IDLE main window using TkFixedFont (Linux).

--- Strana 276 ---
Speaking of preferences dialogs, if you want to change the font it often
helps to know what the font actually is (using Font.actual). Here's the
new code from IDLE's preferences dialog that figures that out:
        if (family == 'TkFixedFont'): 
            f = Font(name = 'TkFixedFont', exists = True, root = 
root) 
            actualFont = Font.actual(f) 
            family = actualFont['family'] 
            size = actualFont['size'] 
            if size < 0: 
                size = 10  # if font in pixels, ignore actual 
size 
            bold = 1 if actualFont['weight']=='bold' else 0
For the record, the fonts that Tk chose for TkFixedFont are Monaco 11
on macOS, Courier New 10 on Windows, and DejaVu Sans Mono 10
on Linux (Ubuntu 14 to be specific).
Around the Text Widget
There were a few other cosmetic things that just weren't right around
the edge of the main window; see [bugs.python.org/issue24750]. Look
back at the earlier screenshots of the IDLE main window.
Notice there's a border around the text widget. It's most noticeable
on macOS where it's a dark black, somewhat less so on Linux, and
barely perceptible on Windows. This is the result of Tk's
"highlightthickness" attribute, which is present when the text widget has
the focus.
If the text widget doesn't have the focus, such as when the window
becomes inactive, the highlight goes away:
Status bar on inactive window.
Notice how on the macOS screenshot, without the highlight, the status
bar at the bottom of the window blends into the text widget. Not good.

--- Strana 277 ---
As you'll see from looking at other applications, the border around
the text widget is no longer a common convention. So let's start by
removing that, which is as easy as adding "highlightthickness=0" when
we create the text widget.
That still leaves us with the problem of the status bar blending into
the editor. We changed the status bar to be a ttk.Frame widget, which
has a background shading on all platforms. We also placed a
ttk.Separator widget just above the status bar, to give us that clean
separation.
Each of the line and column indicators were labels, previously
created with:
label = Label(self, bd=1, relief=SUNKEN, anchor=W)
This was replaced with a ttk.Label, to ensure it matched the frame. We
also did away with the 1990's sunken "3d" look.
label = ttk.Label(self)
Last but not least, we can replace the original Tk scrollbar with the
newer ttk.Scrollbar widget.
The resulting changes to the main window are shown below. Despite
these being fairly minor, often subtle changes, they go a long way
towards IDLE's main window looking a lot cleaner, more modern, and
"just fitting in" on all platforms.
IDLE's main window, with improvements (macOS).

--- Strana 278 ---
IDLE's main window, with improvements (Windows).
IDLE's main window, with improvements (Linux).

--- Strana 279 ---
18.4. Preferences Dialog
One visible piece that greatly needed improvement was the
Preferences dialog. Again, here are screenshots on the three platforms:
IDLE's Preferences window (macOS).

--- Strana 280 ---
IDLE's Preferences window (Windows).

--- Strana 281 ---
IDLE's Preferences window (Linux).
The other tabs allow you to modify individual colors for syntax
highlighting, keystrokes assigned to particular operations, and a few
other miscellaneous things.
While there was some debate as to the need for this level of
configuration on what was primarily a learning environment, it seemed
reasonable to at least make what was there look and work better before
considering 
any 
more 
radical 
surgery; 
see
[bugs.python.org/issue24810].
Among other things, the Preferences dialog was changed from
modal (which, amusingly enough, didn't quite work on macOS, allowing
multiple copies to be created) to modeless, though I won't go further
into that at this point; see [bugs.python.org/issue24760].

--- Strana 282 ---
Tabs
The first issue to address was the tabs used to switch between the four
different preference panes. The original used a custom "megawidget",
as classic Tk doesn't have its own widget. While the Windows and
Linux ones don't look too bad, on recent versions of macOS, there is a
built-in tab widget that looks quite different.
It's actually more common in macOS applications now to use something
similar to a toolbar (row of icons with labels along the top or side) to switch
between preference panes, though some programs do still use tabs. Tabs
are very common on Windows and Linux.
The code was modified to use the ttk.Notebook widget, which not only
looks better on each platform but allows us to jettison a lot of code for
managing tabs ourselves.
Updating Widgets
The next obvious step was upgrading the "classic" widgets to their
themed counterparts. On this screen, that included the buttons, labels,
frames, checkbox, scrollbar, etc. There were a few others on some of
the other panes. Generally, this was a straightforward process, often
involving removing widget options that were no longer needed or
supported by the themed widgets.
Sometimes choosing a different widget made more sense. In this
screen, the option menu used for font size was better replaced by a
combobox. Similarly, the scale widget is not commonly seen in today's
user interfaces and was replaced with the more familiar (and compact)
spinbox widget.
There were also various non-standard ways of using certain widgets
or specifying certain types of data. These were generally modified to
use more familiar paradigms. There were a number of general issues
discussed relating to the design of these dialogs, see, e.g.,
[bugs.python.org/issue24776], and
[bugs.python.org/issue24782].
Layout

--- Strana 283 ---
While this dialog is a bad example, just given the space imbalance
between the left and right halves, a lot of time was spent in general
looking at widget spacing and alignment in dialog boxes.
The general approach was to find similar examples in other
applications and use those as a guide. Where are the buttons located?
How are multiple fields of a dialog organized? Where are labels relative
to the widget they're labeling? Are they left- or right-aligned, capitalized,
do they have a trailing colon? These are the sorts of questions to think
about.
A great starting point is converting from using the old pack geometry
manager to grid. Because of the way it works, pack-based layouts tend to
have weird and inconsistent alignment and spacing, especially if they've
been modified over time. Using grid will increase maintainability, both because it
uses a more familiar mental model and because it's not dependent on the order in
which widgets are inserted.
It's likely impossible to come up with one layout that looks fantastic on
all platforms, but often you can come up with one (possibly with a
couple platform-specific tweaks in the code) that looks decent.
A revised version of the dialog, incorporating many of the techniques
here, is shown below.

--- Strana 284 ---
IDLE Preferences, revised version (macOS).

--- Strana 285 ---
IDLE Preferences, revised version (Windows).
IDLE Preferences, revised version (Linux).
Another Example
The screenshot below shows a before and after of the IDLE
Preferences 
pane, 
which 
controls 
syntax 
coloring; 
see
[bugs.python.org/issue24781].

--- Strana 286 ---
IDLE Themes pane, before (Windows).

--- Strana 287 ---
IDLE Themes pane, after (Windows).
Again, substituting widgets and using more familiar conventions is one
piece of this. I think the bigger changes have to do with thinking about
things from the users' perspective. Particularly as a beginner tool, if
you're in here at all, it's probably to switch themes, not tweak colors,
which is more prominent in the new version. It also does away with an
arbitrary distinction between "built-in" and "custom" themes.
I think the new version is a big improvement, though as of this writing
I have yet to convince some people of this. This being open source,
we'll see what happens!

--- Strana 288 ---
18.5. Other Dialogs
There are multiple other dialog boxes in IDLE; we'll consider a couple
more examples here.
Find Dialog
Planning on doing some more changes on these, likely combining Find
and Replace into a single dialog.
One of the find/search dialogs is shown below, again with before and
after on the three platforms; see [bugs.python.org/issue23218].
IDLE Find dialog, before and after (macOS).

--- Strana 289 ---
IDLE Find dialog, before and after (Windows).
IDLE Find dialog, before and after (Linux).
The first step was upgrading the widgets to use the equivalent themed
widgets. The effect of this is most obvious with the buttons (being
consistent with the capitalization doesn't hurt either).
Speaking of buttons, notice that in the new version, the buttons are
on the right on Windows (where they were on all before), but at the
bottom for macOS and Linux. On examining multiple different
applications, our target users would likely have encountered on each
platform, we found these locations were common. With only a few lines

--- Strana 290 ---
of extra code needed to special case for this layout difference, it made
sense to handle things this way.
Other aspects of the layout were also improved. Looking at the
original dialogs (especially how the buttons don't quite line up with other
widgets), I originally thought it was created with pack, and expected to
convert it to grid. Interestingly, it was already using grid. Why then the
unaligned widgets, a hallmark of pack-based layouts?
This turned out to be a result of using many nested frames. For
example, the buttons were placed into their own frame, and then that
placed into the rest of the window. Because of that, the individual
buttons couldn't be aligned with widgets in the rest of the user interface.
Nested frames were required when using pack, but often with grid it
is better to avoid them except in exceptional circumstances. That
allows you to make different parts of the user interface line up (at the
expense of dealing with a lot of columnspan/rowspan tweaking).
A more substantial reorganization would have likely removed the
nested frames, but particularly with adjusting the buttons, this relatively
simple layout could be made to work with just a few tweaks.
You'll notice a lot of older Tkinter user interfaces have the problem here of
their contents running to the edge of the windows, which often doesn't
look right. I've gotten into the habit of placing a ttk.Frame directly inside
each toplevel, with some additional padding, and then placing the rest of the user
interface inside that.
Like Preferences, the Find dialogs were also modal, which meant you
had to dismiss them before doing any editing of your file, though at
least they did remember the previous settings when you reopened
them. These were eventually changed to be regular modeless
windows.
About Dialog
Speaking of modal dialogs, the About box was also originally modal.
Not only that, getting more information (e.g., the IDLE README file)
resulted in launching another modal dialog, which needed to be
dismissed to go back to the first modal dialog, which needed... etc.

--- Strana 291 ---
IDLE's doubly-modal About dialog (macOS).

--- Strana 292 ---
Making the dialog non-modal was the first priority. Second, the nested
dialogs were eliminated using a progressive disclosure technique. The
dialog when launched is fairly sparse but contains a 'More...' "link."
When clicked, it expands the window to show one of the documentation
files, with an option to switch to any of the others.
The 'More...' "link" is effectively playing the role of a button, but
taking advantage of everyone's familiarity with web browsers to provide
a visually simpler alternative. As far as implementation, we use a
(classic, non-themed) label widget, colored blue, and attach a mouse
click binding to it.
One thing you can do to help convey that the link is clickable is to change
the cursor when the mouse is over it (via the "cursor" option found on
many widgets). On macOS, choose the platform-specific "pointinghand"
cursor, on Windows and Linux choose the "hand2" cursor, which actually gets
mapped to something more appropriate on those platforms.

--- Strana 293 ---
Revised About dialog (macOS).
Online Help
IDLE also had a (needless to say, modal) help dialog which displayed
information on using the program. This displayed a plain text help file
that looked similar to the 'About - Readme' window above.

--- Strana 294 ---
At the same time, like the rest of Python, there was reference
documentation, created as "restructured text" which can then be
formatted using a tool called Sphinx into HTML, text, etc.
The documentation in IDLE's help dialog was based on a separate,
but similar plain text file. Keeping the two in sync was a problem. They
were separate because Sphinx's plain text rendering didn't look all that
good, and all the extra navigation, etc. in the HTML rendering wouldn't
be needed for online help, and then there's the hassle of opening a web
browser, etc.; see [bugs.python.org/issue16893].
Tk's text widget is smart enough to handle the very basic formatting
used in IDLE's documentation, and Python includes an HTML parser in
its standard library. Putting the two together made displaying a
simplified version of the HTML reference documentation easy.
Online help using text widget (macOS).
It's easy to get carried away here. Back in the mid-1990s, a tiny HTML
parser in Tcl spawned a slew of "web browser in a text widget"
adventures, first in Tcl and then in other languages, e.g., Python's Grail.
Trying to keep up with everything that large teams of developers are putting into
real web browsers is a fool's errand. Yet, for very limited and constrained subsets
of HTML (as might be found in online help), it's an entirely reasonable approach.

--- Strana 295 ---
Query Dialogs
Still with the modal dialog theme, IDLE used the "simpledialog"
package, which is distributed as part of Tkinter to request certain small
pieces of information from users via modal dialogs. An example is the
"Goto line..." command. This, along with an example of the alert that is
presented if you type in something invalid is shown below.
Goto line dialog and error handling (macOS).
The alert-on-dialog isn't quite as bad as the dialog-on-dialog pattern we
saw before. But these dialogs could certainly stand to be cosmetically
updated, and a few other tweaks made. For example, while they
correctly interpreted hitting the Return or Escape keys as synonymous
with pressing OK or Cancel, they didn't also allow for the alternate
macOS conventions (Enter key on the numeric keypad and Command-
period); see [bugs.python.org/issue24812]. There were some other
customizations that would have been nice to have, e.g. changing the
name of the OK button, that simpledialog didn't support.
Regarding the error handling, things were, in some cases, handled
worse. For example, there is a command to open an editor window
containing the source of a module from Python's stdlib. See what
happens if you make a typo.

--- Strana 296 ---
Open module dialog with error (macOS).
Because the dialog doesn't know if the module name is correct,
validation isn't done until after the dialog is dismissed. So the error alert
gets attached to another window. To try again, you have to dismiss that,
use the menu to reopen the dialog, and try again (from scratch).
There were a couple of places in the code where more validation in
the dialog was really necessary. Because the "simpledialog" code was
part of Tkinter and wasn't readily extensible in the ways needed,
developers had to resort to "inheritance by text editor" (i.e., copy the
entire simpledialog code and modify the copy). Twice, separately.
Since the appearance needed to be updated anyway, we
generalized things and ignored what was in Tkinter's simpledialog
module altogether. Instead, a single general-purpose replacement was
created that could be used throughout IDLE (and still resulted in less
code).

--- Strana 297 ---
New query dialog (macOS).
Besides the updated widgets and alignment, notice how error
messages from invalid input are now shown in the dialog itself (a
technique seen frequently in web applications), rather than a separate
alert. For macOS, we also made sure to add key bindings for the
numeric keypad Enter key and Command-period, and also made sure
the window looked like a modal dialog is supposed to via this little gem:
self.tk.call('::tk::unsupported::MacWindowStyle', 'style', 
self._w, 
             'moveableModal', '')
As far as validation, the query dialog was structured to accept a
validation callback, which could then handle arbitrary criteria. For
example, here is the validation code used when people enter the name
of a new theme. It makes sure it fits certain syntactical requirements
and also hasn't been already used.
def newtheme(self): 
    def validate_theme(s): 
        if not s: 
            raise ValueError('Cannot be blank') 
        if len(s) > 30: 
            raise ValueError('Cannot be longer than 30 
characters') 
        if s in self.all_theme_names(): 
            raise ValueError('Name already used') 
    new_theme = querydialog.askstring(parent=self, prompt='...', 
            title='Create New Theme', 
validatecmd=validate_theme) 
    if new_theme is not None: 
        ...
A generic 'integer' validation callback, with an optional minimum and
maximum, was added as part of the query dialog module for dialogs
like the 'Goto line...' dialog.
Dialog Placement
Several dialogs, including alerts, file save, etc. were appearing in the
middle of the screen, rather than close to the window that they were

--- Strana 298 ---
associated with; see [bugs.python.org/issue25173].
Choosing the right window as the parent of the dialog is important. It
ensures the dialog window appears near that window. On macOS,
these dialogs are often attached to the title bar of the parent window
(see the error alerts in the previous section).
The front ends to these dialogs in Tkinter support both a master and a
parent. While most of the time, "master" and "parent" are used
interchangeably in Tkinter, that's not the case here. If you provide only the
master, the dialog won't be attached to that window (but the dialog still needs an
existing window to create the dialog, which is why the master parameter is there).
If the dialog is associated with another window, be sure to use the parent
parameter.

--- Strana 299 ---
18.6. Window Integration
Multiple people had hoped to make it possible to have everything
displayed in a single window, to avoid the window management hassles
that 
can 
sometimes 
trip 
up 
people, 
see, 
e.g.,
[bugs.python.org/issue9262], [bugs.python.org/issue24826], and
[bugs.python.org/issue24818].
Below is an early, partially-functional mockup of some of the things
we wanted to be able to accomplish.
Early mockup of window integration (macOS).

--- Strana 300 ---
At this point, almost everything here has been completed, and it ended up loo
almost identical to the original mockup. See, once in a while, it happens!
Tabbed Editor
Even beginner programmers have to juggle multiple different source
files. If each gets its own window, as was the case originally in IDLE,
things can get messy and/or lost pretty quickly. Using tabs to organize
multiple files in a single window is a familiar, effective solution.
When architecting your application, don't build large components as
subclasses of Toplevel, or assume they'll be the only thing in the window
in the future. Getting around that assumption in the code took a large
amount of work. If components are instead built as frames, they can be more
easily inserted into a toplevel, a paned window, a tabbed notebook, another frame,
etc.
Luckily, we can rely on the ttk.Notebook widget to provide the tabbed
user inteface, just like we did in Preferences.
Or maybe not.
Unfortunately, the ttk.Notebook widget (and the underlying platform
widgets it uses) only really support displaying and switching between a
small, fixed number of tabs. There's nothing built-in to support adding
or closing tabs from the user interface, which we definitely need here.
And as every programmer knows, it is more than possible to need a
large number of tabs.
As you've seen in different editors and word processors, everyone
does things slightly differently. We did our own custom tab widget
(sigh...) for IDLE. The design borrowed heavily from the TextMate editor
on macOS. It allows creating new tabs, closing old ones, dragging to
rearrange the order, tooltips on each tab, indicating if the contained file
needed saving, etc. When the number of tabs grows too large to
comfortably display, the remainder are accessible via a popup menu on
the last visible tab.
The tabbed widget implementation relies on a single Tkinter canvas to
display the row of tabs and handle all interaction. The actual switching of
window content is handled completely outside of the widget, with a simple
callback mechanism used to coordinate everything.

--- Strana 301 ---
Debugger
The design of the original debugger, along with having its own set of
flaws (see [bugs.python.org/issue17942]), was too tall to be integrated
like we wanted to do.
Original IDLE debugger (macOS).
The user interface was substantially revised, with a layout that would
work both in a standalone window and when integrated. The new
version uses a paned window to separate the controls and stack on the
left from the variable display on the right. Both the stack and variable
display are implemented using tree view widgets. This also provides a
great deal of control when it comes to how much space each element
will use.

--- Strana 302 ---
New IDLE debugger (macOS).
Integrated Shell and Debugger
To achieve the integration of the shell and the debugger with the tabbed
editor, another paned window was used. Additional controls will be
added to show/hide the panes as the implementation progresses.
The embedded shell is interesting too. Recall that IDLE normally has
a single Python shell window running another Python process; when
modules in an editor are "run," they do so via that shell. It's nice to have
that big shell available, and we don't necessarily want to start up a
separate shell in the editor.
New in Tk 8.5, the Text widget actually supports the ability to create
"peers," which are separate widgets, but they share the same text
backend. That means when something changes in one, it changes in
the other. It's a seamless way to solve our problem here.

--- Strana 303 ---
18.7. Workarounds, Hacks, and More
This being a chapter on actual experiences modernizing a real
application, it would be a lie to say that the underlying user interface
toolkit (Tk and the Tkinter wrapper) always worked exactly as it should.
Like IDLE, Tkinter and Tcl/Tk are the results of incredible volunteer
efforts. That being said...
Tk and Tkinter have some bugs and rough edges. I know you're shocked.
In this section, I'll try to catalog just a few of the particular
"gotchas" that we ran into, as well as provide some little tips that don't
necessarily fit elsewhere but help provide a bit more polish to the user
interface.
Tool Tips
tool tips broken on macOS;
see [bugs.python.org/issue24570]
MacWindowStyle help for tooltips, vs. 
wm 
overrideredirect
elsewhere
Context Menus
bogus text widget bindings interfere with popup clicks;
see [bugs.python.org/issue24801]
two different popup click bindings needed on macOS;
[bugs.python.org/issue24801]
Peer Text Widgets
broken peer text widget API in Tkinter;
see [bugs.python.org/issue17945]
Modal Windows

--- Strana 304 ---
macOS not doing fully modal, plus window style;
see [bugs.python.org/issue24760]

--- Strana 305 ---
Copyright
Modern Tkinter for Busy Python Developers
Quickly learn to create great looking user interfaces for Windows, Mac and
Linux using Python's standard GUI toolkit
Third Edition. Copyright © 2012-2020 by Mark Roseman
Published by Late Afternoon Press. Victoria, BC, Canada. lateaft.com.
This book brings together various information from the website TkDocs.com, which
Mark developed as a much-needed source of documentation on the modern
features available in Tk. The website contains information on using Tk through Tcl,
Ruby and Perl as well as Python. This book should be considered a companion to
that website, and supports its further development.
ISBN: 978-1-9991495-9-8    (KINDLE)

--- Strana 306 ---
About the Author
Mark Roseman is a veteran software developer, entrepreneur, and
writer. He previously worked and published extensively on topics
related to user experience and technology to support collaboration

--- Strana 307 ---
between groups of people, and founded two software startup
companies.
He has been using Tcl, Tk and Python since the early 1990's, and
has been influential within the Tcl/Tk community.
Mark lives in Victoria, BC, Canada. He can be contacted via his
personal website, markroseman.com.
He has published additional information related to Tk and Tkinter at
his tkdocs.com website.
