
--- Strana 1 ---

--- Strana 2 ---

--- Strana 3 ---

--- Strana 4 ---
Practical Guide to Machine
Learning, NLP, and Generative AI:
Libraries, Algorithms, and
Applications

--- Strana 5 ---
Published 2025 by River Publishers
River Publishers
Alsbjergvej 10, 9260 Gistrup, Denmark
www.riverpublishers.com
Distributed exclusively by Routledge
605 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10017, USA
4 Park Square, Milton Park, Abingdon, Oxon OX14 4RN
Practical Guide to Machine Learning, NLP, and Generative Al: Libraries, Algorithms, and
Applications/by T. Mariprasath, Kumar Reddy Cheepati, Marco Rivera.
© 2025 River Publishers. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored
in a retrieval systems, or transmitted in any form or by any means, mechanical, photocopying,
recording or otherwise, without prior written permission of the publishers.
Routledge is an imprint of the Taylor & Francis Group, an informa business
ISBN 978-87-7004-653-4 (paperback)
ISBN 978-87-7004-655-8 (online)
ISBN 978-87-7004-654-1 (ebook master)
A Publication in the River Publishers Series in Rapids
While every effort is made to provide dependable information, the publisher, authors, and editors
cannot be held responsible for any errors or omissions.

--- Strana 6 ---
Practical Guide to Machine
Learning, NLP, and Generative AI:
Libraries, Algorithms, and
Applications
T. Mariprasath
Department of EEE, K.S.R.M College of Engineering
(Autnomous), Kadapa, Andhra Pradesh-516005, India
Kumar Reddy Cheepati
Department of EEE, K.S.R.M College of Engineering
(Autnomous), Kadapa, Andhra Pradesh-516005, India
Marco Rivera
Department of Electrical Engineering, Universidad de Talca,
Merced 437, Curicò 3460000, Chile

--- Strana 7 ---

--- Strana 8 ---
Contents
Preface
About the Authors
1. Machine Learning Libraries
1.1 Scikit-learn
1.2 TensorFlow
1.3 PyTorch
1.4 Keras
1.5 XGBoost
1.6 LightGBM
1.7 CatBoost
1.8 Natural Language Toolkit
1.9 Gensim
1.10 SpaCy
2. Neural Networks
2.1 Perceptron
2.2 Multilayer Perceptron
2.3 Radial Basis Function Network
2.4 Convolutional Neural Networks
2.5 Recurrent Neural Network
2.6 Long Short-term Memory
2.7 Gated Recurrent Unit
3. Supervised Machine Learning
3.1 Logistic Regression
3.2 Decision Trees

--- Strana 9 ---
3.3 Random Forest
3.4 Support Vector Machine
3.5 Gradient Boosting Machines
3.6 AdaBoost
3.7 Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost)
4. Unsupervised Machine Learning
4.1 Hierarchical Clustering
4.2 Principal Component Analysis
4.3 Singular Value Decomposition
4.4 Robot Navigation
4.5 Network Security
5. Natural Language Processing
5.1 Overview of NLP
5.2 Fundamental Concepts of NLP
5.3 NLP Applications and Use Cases
5.4 Chatbots and Virtual Assistants
5.5 Clinical NLP Applications
5.6 Social Media Analytics
5.7 Recent Advancements in NLP Research
5.8 Application of NLP
6. Generative AI
6.1 Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs)
6.2 Vibrational Autoencoders
6.3 Autoregressive Models
6.4 Markov Chain Models
6.5 Boltzmann Machines
6.6 Deep Belief Networks
6.7 Recurrent Neural Networks

--- Strana 10 ---
6.8 Battery Range Prediction
6.9 Generative AI for Mobile Applications
6.10 NLP and GAI Combined Algorithm Use Cases
Bibliography
Index

--- Strana 11 ---
Preface
In the rapidly evolving field of artificial intelligence, machine learning has
emerged as a pivotal area of study and application. This book, A Practical
Guide to Machine Learning, NLP, and Generative AI: Libraries,
Algorithms, and Applications, aims to serve as a comprehensive guide for
both novices and experienced practitioners. It delves into the intricacies of
various machine learning libraries, neural networks, supervised and
unsupervised learning algorithms, natural language processing (NLP), and
generative M, providing a broad yet detailed exploration of these critical
areas.
Chapter 1 introduces the essential machine learning libraries that form
the backbone of many machine learning projects today. Beginning with
Scikitlearn and progressing through TensorFlow, PyTorch, Keras, XGBoost,
LightGBM, CatBoost, and leading NLP libraries like NLTK, Gensim, and
SpaCy, this chapter lays the groundwork for practical implementation of
machine learning models. Each section offers a deep dive into the features,
advantages, and unique capabilities of these libraries, equipping readers
with the knowledge to select and utilize the right tools for their specific
needs.
Chapter 2 transitions into the realm of neural networks, starting with
fundamental concepts and advancing to complex architectures. We explore
the perceptron and its application in digit classification, multilayer
perceptrons for financial forecasting, radial basis function networks for air
quality prediction, and convolutional neural networks for image
classification. The chapter further delves into recurrent neural networks and
their variants, such as long short-term memory and gated recurrent units,

--- Strana 12 ---
highlighting their effectiveness in tasks like anomaly detection in time
series data, battery state estimation, and machinery failure prediction.
Chapter 3 focuses on supervised machine learning, presenting core
algorithms and their real-world applications. From logistic regression in
predicting sports outcomes to decision trees for plant classification, and
from random forests in traffic prediction to support vector machines for
house price prediction, this chapter covers a spectrum of methodologies. It
also includes advanced techniques like gradient boosting machines and
AdaBoost, demonstrating their utility in genomics and bioinformatics data
classification, respectively.
Chapter 4 explores unsupervised learning algorithms, essential for
discovering hidden patterns in data without predefined labels. We discuss
hierarchical clustering for gene expression data, principal component
analysis for climate predictions, singular value decomposition for signal
denoising, and other applications such as robot navigation and network
security.
Chapter 5 delves into the vast field of natural language processing,
particularly emphasizing the NLTK library. It covers fundamental NLP
concepts, diverse applications, and recent advancements. Topics include
text 
preprocessing, 
syntactic 
analysis, 
machine 
translation, 
text
classification, named entity recognition, sentiment analysis, and social
media monitoring, offering a robust understanding of how NLP transforms
unstructured text into meaningful insights.
Chapter 6 addresses the cutting-edge domain of generative AI. We
explore generative adversarial networks (GANs) for image generation,
variational autoencoders (VAEs), and autoregressive models for time series
forecasting. The chapter also discusses Markov chain models for text
generation, Boltzmann machines for pattern recognition, and deep belief

--- Strana 13 ---
networks for financial forecasting. Additionally, we look at the synergy of
recurrent neural networks in generative tasks and the convergence of NLP
with generative algorithms, culminating in a discussion of generative AI
applications in mobile technologies and beyond.
A Practical Guide to Machine Learning, NLP, and Generative AI:
Libraries, Algorithms, and Applications, is designed to be an essential
resource for anyone keen on mastering the principles and applications of
machine learning. Through a blend of theoretical foundations and practical
examples, this book aims to empower readers to harness the full potential of
machine learning technologies in their professional and academic
endeavors.

--- Strana 14 ---
About the Authors
Dr. T. Mariprasath received his Ph.D. degree from the Rural Energy
Centre at The Gandhigram Rural Institute (Deemed to be University) in
January 2017, fully funded by the Ministry of Human Resource
Development-Government of India. Since June 2018, he has been working
as an Associate Professor in the Department of EEE at K.S.R.M. College of
Engineering (Autonomous), Andhra Pradesh, India. He has published in 10
articles in journals indexed in the Science Citation Index and 15 articles
indexed in Scopus. Additionally, he has authored three books and six book
chapters. Moreover, he holds an Indian patent and has been granted an
Australian innovation patent. He received Rs. 6 lakhs from the Ministry of
Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises to develop a self-powered GPS
tracker. His research interests include green materials, electric vehicles,
solar PV, and machine learning.
Dr. Kumar Reddy Cheepati received his B. Eng. degree in electrical
and electronics engineering from the St. Joseph’s College of Engineering,
Chennai, India in 2009, his M.Tech. degree in maintenance engineering
from SJCE, Mysore, India (now JSS Technical University) in 2011, and his
Ph.D. degree from JNTUK, Kakinada, India in 2021. He is currently
working as an Associate Professor with the Department of Electrical and
Electronics Engineering, KSRM College of Engineering, Kadapa, Andhra
Pradesh, India. He has 12 years of academic experience. He has published
research papers in various international journals of high repute, including
Scopus, SCI, and ES CI indexed journals. He is an active reviewer of the
Electrical Power System Research (EPSR) journal, Journal of Circuits,
Systems, and Computers (JCSC), Journal of Engineering Research (JER),
and Circuit World journal.

--- Strana 15 ---
Dr. Marco E. Rivera (Senior Member, IEEE) received an electronic civil
engineering degree and M.Sc. degree in engineering, with specialization in
electrical engineering, from the Universidad de Concepciòn, Concepciòn,
Chile, and a Ph.D. degree in electronic engineering from the Universidad
Tecnica Federico Santa Maria, Valparaiso, Chile, in 2012. He has been a
visiting professor at several international universities. He has directed and
participated in several projects financed by the National Fund for Scientific
and Technological development (Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Cientifico y
Tecnologico, FONDECYT), the Chilean National Agency for Research and
Development (Agencia Nacional de Investigacion y Desarrollo, ANID), and
the Paraguayan Program for the Development of Science and Technology
(Proyecto Paraguayo para el Desarrollo de la Ciencia y Tecnologia,
PROCIENCIA), among others. He has been the responsible researcher of
basal financed projects whose objective is to enhance, through substantial
and long-term financing, Chile’s economic development through excellence
and applied research. He is the Director of the Laboratory of Energy
Conversion and Power Electronics (Laboratorio de Conversion de Energias
y Electronica de Potencia, LCEEP), Universidad de Talca, Talca, Chile. He
was a Full Professor with the Department of Electrical Engineering,
Universidad de Talca. Since April 2023, he has been a Professor with the
Power Electronics and Machine Centre, University of Nottingham,
NottinghamM UK. He has authored or coauthored more than 500 academic
publications in leading international conferences and journals. His main
research areas are matrix converters, predictive and digital controls for
high-power drives, fourleg converters, development of high-performance
control platforms based on field-programmable gate arrays, renewable
energies, advanced control of power converters, design, assembly and start-
up of power converters, among others.

--- Strana 16 ---
CHAPTER 1
Machine Learning Libraries
Machine learning is a subset of artificial intelligence (AI) that enables
machines to learn from data without being explicitly programmed. It’s
essentially a way for computers to recognize patterns, make predictions,
and improve their performance over time. The development of machine
learning within the realm of artificial intelligence has been a transformative
journey. Initially, AI focused on rule-based systems, where programmers
meticulously encoded rules for the computer to follow. However, as
datasets grew in complexity and size, it became apparent that traditional
programming methods couldn’t keep up with the demand for intelligent
decision making. This realization led to the evolution of machine learning
techniques, where algorithms could automatically learn from data and
adjust their actions accordingly.
The foundation of machine learning lies in its algorithms, which are
designed to identify patterns and relationships within data. These algorithms
are trained using vast amounts of labeled data, where the correct answers
are provided alongside the input data. Through iterative processes, such as
supervised, unsupervised, and reinforcement learning, these algorithms
fine-tune themselves to recognize patterns and make accurate predictions or
decisions. For instance, in supervised learning, algorithms learn from
labeled data, while in unsupervised learning, they identify patterns without
explicit labels. Reinforcement learning, on the other hand, involves learning
through trial and error, with the algorithm receiving feedback on its actions
to optimize its decision-making process.

--- Strana 17 ---
The advancements in machine learning have been fueled by various
factors, including the availability of big data, increased computational
power, and innovations in algorithm design. The proliferation of digital data
generated by various sources, such as sensors, social media, and online
transactions, has provided machine learning algorithms with rich datasets to
learn from. Moreover, advancements in hardware, such as GPUs and
specialized chips, have accelerated the training process, enabling the
handling of massive datasets and complex models. Additionally, researchers
continue to push the boundaries of algorithmic innovation, developing more
sophisticated techniques that can tackle diverse tasks, from image
recognition to natural language processing. As a result, machine learning
has become a cornerstone of modern AI systems, powering applications
across industries, from healthcare to finance, and driving innovation in
ways previously unimaginable.
Machine learning has transformed how we approach data analysis,
pattern detection, and decision-making processes. Machine learning
libraries are at the center of this transformation, providing developers and
data scientists with powerful tools and algorithms for quickly building,
training, and deploying machine learning models. These libraries provide a
wide range of features, from simple linear regression to complicated deep
learning structures, allowing users to tackle a diversified collection of issues
across multiple disciplines.
Furthermore, machine learning libraries are built to be highly compatible
with other software tools and frameworks, allowing for easy integration into
existing data pipelines and software systems. Whether connecting with data
storage systems, visualization libraries, or web frameworks, machine
learning libraries provide the flexibility and extensibility needed to meet a
variety of application requirements. Machine learning libraries serve an

--- Strana 18 ---
important role in increasing access to machine learning techniques and
promoting innovation in the area. These libraries, with their easy interfaces,
extensive documentation, and powerful feature sets, enable users to realize
the full potential of machine learning and create intelligent systems that
alter businesses and communities.
1.1 Scikit-learn
Scikit-learn, or sklearn, is one of Python’s finest and most commonly used
machine learning packages. It is well known for its straightforwardness,
efficiency, and ease of use, making it an ideal choice for both new and
seasoned machine learning practitioners. Scikit-learn implements a variety
of machine learning algorithms, including supervised and unsupervised
learning techniques. It includes techniques for classification, regression,
clustering, dimensionality reduction, model selection, and preprocessing.
Scikit-learn’s API architecture is consistent and intuitive across its
numerous modules and algorithms. This consistency enables users to learn
and switch between different algorithms without having to grasp the
underlying implementation specifics. Scikit-learn is built on top of the
NumPy and SciPy libraries, which offer efficient array manipulation and
numerical calculation capabilities. This integration enables smooth
compatibility with different scientific computing tools and frameworks
inside the Python ecosystem.
Scikit-learn has extensive documentation as well as several examples and
tutorials. This resource-rich environment enables users to comprehend the
functionality of various algorithms, discover best practices, and fix frequent
problems. Scikit-learn includes a wide range of utilities for feature
extraction, transformation, and preprocessing. It covers methods for scaling,
normalization, imputation, categorical variable encoding, and polynomial
feature generation, among others.

--- Strana 19 ---
Scikit-learn provides tools for assessing the performance of machine
learning models via a variety of metrics and methodologies. It includes
functions for cross-validation, grid search, hyperparameter tuning, and
model selection, allowing users to fine-tune and optimize their models’
performance. Scikitlearn’s implementations priorities simplicity and
transparency, allowing users to easily understand and comprehend the
behavior of machine learning models. This transparency is critical for
establishing trust in model predictions and comprehending the underlying
patterns in the data. Scikit-learn is an opensource project that has a thriving
development community. It is always evolving, with regular updates, bug
fixes, and new features contributed by academics, developers, and data
scientists all across the world. Scikit-learn is a strong and versatile machine
learning toolkit with an easy-to-use interface, a wide variety of algorithms,
and reliable tools for model evaluation and deployment. Whether you’re a
newbie learning the fundamentals of machine learning or an experienced
practitioner creating complicated models, Scikit-learn provides the tools
and information you need to succeed in machine learning projects.
1.2 TensorFlow
Google Brain’s open-source TensorFlow framework for machine learning
was introduced in 2015. In recent years, it has grown into a formidable
library for developing and releasing ML models, especially for usage in
deep learning scenarios. TensorFlow is well-suited for use in both academic
and industrial settings due to its adaptability, scalability, and efficiency.
Directed graphs describe computations in TensorFlow’s computational
graph paradigm. The graph’s nodes stand for mathematical operations, and
the edges show the tensor data flow between them. When using
TensorFlow, computations may be efficiently distributed across various
devices, including CPUs and GPUs, thanks to its graph-based methodology.

--- Strana 20 ---
TensorFlow is compatible with eager execution and graph-based
computing. Eager execution mimics the behavior of Python code by
instantly evaluating operations and returning results dynamically. This
makes programming easier and more engaging, especially when working
with prototypes and debugging. A wide variety of machine learning models,
such as CNNs, RNNs, and deep neural networks (DNNs), can be easily
constructed with TensorFlow. Both a high-level API (tf.keras) and a
lowlevel API are provided, allowing for rapid model development and
training and providing granular control over the training process and model
architecture.
TensorBoard is an advanced visualization toolkit that is pre-installed with
TensorFlow. It allows users to easily monitor and visualize machine
learning experiments. Model graphs, training metrics, embeddings, and
more can all be seen with TensorBoard. Users are able to troubleshoot and
optimize their models with the significant insights it provides about model
behavior and performance.
A sizable and active community of researchers, practitioners, and
developers is supporting the development and ecology of TensorFlow. If
you’re new to machine learning or deep learning and want to learn how to
utilize TensorFlow, it has a wealth of information to help you out. For
production ML pipelines, there’s TensorFlow Extended (TFX). For mobile
and edge device deployment, there’s TensorFlow Lite. And for browser-
based model execution, there’s TensorFlow.js. Machine learning workflows
can be efficiently scaled with TensorFlow’s support for distributed training
over several devices and machines. Data and model parallelism are two
examples of distributed training methodologies that it incorporates by
default. With TensorFlow Serving, users can easily and scalable deliver
learned models to production environments.

--- Strana 21 ---
With regular upgrades and new features added, TensorFlow has kept
evolving fast since its initial release. You may find TensorFlow 2.0,
TensorFlow Lite, TensorFlow.js, TensorFlow Extended (TFX), TensorFlow
Hub, TensorFlow for AutoML, and TensorFlow for Community
Contributions and Extensions among the most current updates and additions
to the framework. Engineers and academics can now construct, train, and
deploy ML models on a massive scale with the help of TensorFlow, thanks
to its robust and flexible architecture.
1.3 PyTorch
The PyTorch machine learning framework was mainly created by the
Facebook AI Research Lab (FAIR). It is available as an open-source
project. The development and training of deep learning models make
extensive use of them. Researchers and practitioners alike love PyTorch
because it offers a dynamic computational graph that is both flexible and
powerful. When it comes down to it, PyTorch is just a library that offers
strong tensor processing, like NumPy arrays, but with GPU acceleration. To
construct deep learning models, tensors— multidimensional arrays
amenable to mathematical operations—are essential.
Python takes advantage of dynamic computational graphs, in contrast to
other deep learning frameworks that rely on static ones. This allows for
more leeway in model creation and simpler debugging because the graph is
built on-the-fly during runtime. Features like dynamic control flow, made
possible by dynamic graphs, simplify the implementation of complicated
models. The ‘autograd’ package in PyTorch is responsible for the automatic
differentiation. With this capability, programmers can calculate the
gradients of tensors with regard to specific variables. When training deep
learning models with methods like backpropagation and gradient descent,
automatic differentiation is crucial.

--- Strana 22 ---
The ‘torch.nn’ module is a part of PyTorch that contains the necessary
classes and functions to construct neural networks. It simplifies the
construction of complicated neural network designs with its predefined
layers, activation functions, loss functions, and optimization methods. For
GPU-efficient computation, PyTorch is fully compatible with NVIDIA
CUDA. Faster training and deployment of deep learning models is now
possible thanks to this capability.
1.4 Keras
Python-based Keras is an open-source neural network library. It is intended
to be extensible, modular, and user-friendly. Keras was designed to
facilitate rapid prototyping and experimentation of deep learning models.
Functioning as an API for high-level neural networks, it offers
straightforward and user-friendly abstractions for constructing and training
deep learning models. Keras provides a standardized and intuitive interface
that is compatible with a range of deep learning frameworks, such as
TensorFlow, Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit (CNTK), and Theano. Users are
able to effortlessly transition between backend engines without the need to
modify their code.
A fundamental characteristic of Keras is its modular architecture. The
framework provides a collection of basic parts, such as activations, layers,
optimizers, and loss functions, that can be easily put together to create
complex neural network configurations. The extensive customizability of
these building elements enables users to establish and refine models
according to particular tasks and datasets. Sequential and functional model
architectures are both supported by Keras. In contrast to functional models,
which permit more intricate network architectures such as branching and
merging, sequential models consist of linear arrays of layers. Because this
technology is so flexible, it can be used to create a huge range of neural

--- Strana 23 ---
network configurations, from simple feedforward networks to complex
models like convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and recurrent neural
networks (RNNs).
Keras offers a collection of utilities that go beyond model construction to
facilitate training, evaluation, and inference. The software incorporates
automatic differentiation capabilities, enabling users to calculate gradients
and modify model parameters through the utilization of diverse
optimization algorithms, including stochastic gradient descent (SGD),
Adam, and RMSprop. In addition to providing convenient tools for data
preprocessing and augmentation, Keras facilitates the preparation of
training and validation datasets. In addition, Keras facilitates the
incorporation of widely used data formats and libraries, such as Pandas
DataFrames, NumPy arrays, and image data generators.
1.5 XGBoost
XGBoost, which stands for extreme gradient boosting, is a highly effective
and efficient machine learning algorithm that is particularly well-suited for
processing structured or tabular data. It is classified as a member of the
gradient-boosting algorithm family and constructs a robust predictive model
by progressively merging feeble learners. An essential attribute of XGBoost
is its utilization of regularization and gradient-based optimization, two of its
most prominent strengths, which empower it to manage intricate datasets
while mitigatingthe risk of overfitting. By employing an innovative
algorithm architecture that that reduces both training time and memory
consumption, it becomes viable for handling sizable datasets.
XGBoost, an algorithm that facilitates both classification and regression,
has gained significant traction in machine learning competitions and
practical implementations. The software provides users with the ability to
adjust model parameters and hyper parameters in order to achieve the

--- Strana 24 ---
highest level of performance. In addition, XGBoost offers comprehension
functionalities, including feature significance scores that assist users in
comprehending the manner in which individual features contribute to the
predictions made by the model. For the purposes of feature engineering,
model debugging, and obtaining insight into the underlying data, this
transparency is vital.
1.6 LightGBM
LightGBM is a Microsoft-developed gradient-boosting framework with an
emphasis on scalability, performance, and efficiency. The algorithm in
question is classified as an ensemble method and finds extensive
application in supervised learning endeavors including classification,
regression, and ranking. LightGBM constructs a robust predictive model
iteratively from a collection of weak learners, typically decision trees, using
a gradient-based methodology.
An essential characteristic of LightGBM is its effective management of
extensive datasets. A histogram-based algorithm is utilized to partition
continuous features, resulting in memory efficiency and training
performance improvements. Moreover, LightGBM incorporates a leaf-wise
tree growth strategy, which enables it to cultivate trees starting from their
depths, thereby enhancing the efficacy of training even further. LightGBM
contains a multitude of parameters and alternatives that can be utilized to
fine-tune model performance and prevent overfitting. The software
facilitates parallel and distributed computations, which enables it to be used
in conjunction with distributed computing frameworks and dual-core
processors to train models on extensive datasets.
LightGBM additionally distinguishes itself through its capability to
process categorical features without requiring one-hot encoding. In order to
efficiently manage categorical variables, it employs methods including

--- Strana 25 ---
gradient-based one-side sampling and decision tree-based algorithms. In its
entirety, LightGBM is esteemed for its rapidity, expandability, and efficacy
in constructing precise predictive models. In machine learning competitions
and practical applications where efficacy and efficiency are critical, it has
garnered considerable attention.
1.7 CatBoost
The gradient-boosting library CatBoost was created by the global company
Yandex.Its robust architecture enables it to effectively process categorical
features, rendering it a versatile instrument for machine learning endeavors
such as classification, regression, and ranking. CatBoost employs the
gradient boosting algorithm to iteratively incorporate weak learners, which
are typically decision trees, into the ensemble while optimizing a distinct
loss function. The predictive accuracy is improved through the utilization of
gradient-based learning and tree-based algorithms, which minimize the loss
function.
CatBoost stands out because it can process categorical features directly,
eliminatingtheneedforpreprocessingoperationslikelabelencodingorone-hot
encoding. The model utilizes a novel approach known as the ordered
boosting technique, which efficiently divides and sorts categorical variables
throughout the training process. CatBoost employs a multitude of
methodologies in order to mitigate overfitting and enhance generalization.
Regularization techniques like L2 regularization and tree depth
regularization are facilitated, along with early halting, which terminates
training when the model reaches a plateau in performance.
Scalability and efficiency are fundamental tenets of CatBoost. The
software facilitates parallel and GPU-based training, employs sophisticated
data structures and algorithms to reduce memory usage, and expedites the
training procedure, rendering it well-suited for handling extensive datasets

--- Strana 26 ---
and intricate models. CatBoost offers functionality for evaluating the
significance of individual features and interpreting models, thereby
empowering users to comprehend how each feature contributes to the
model’s prognostications.
1.8 Natural Language Toolkit
Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK) is an all-encompassing Python library
designed to facilitate natural language processing (NLP) endeavors. NLTK,
an ensemble of tools and resources designed for various tasks including
tokenization, stemming, lemmatization, part-of-speech labelling, parsing,
and semantic reasoning, was developed by researchers at the University of
Pennsylvania. In academia and industry, NLTK is extensively utilized to
construct and investigate NLP models and applications. The platform
provides an extensive assortment of corpora, lexical resources, grammars,
and algorithms that aid in the execution of diverse facets of natural
language analysis.
NLTK’s simplicity and usability constitute a defining characteristic,
rendering it accessible to novices as well as seasoned NLP professionals. It
offers comprehensive documentation, tutorials, and illustrative instances to
aid users in comprehending and efficiently employing its functionalities. By
providing pre-trained models and resources in various languages, NLTK
empowers users to process text data that is diverse in nature. Furthermore,
NLTK effortlessly integrates with various Python frameworks and libraries,
including Scikit-learn, TensorFlow, and PyTorch, enabling the construction
of comprehensive natural language processing pipelines and applications.
1.9 Gensim
The Gensim library for Python is an unsupervised semantic modelling tool
that is open-source in nature. Topic modelling, document similarity

--- Strana 27 ---
analysis, and natural language processing tasks are its areas of expertise.
Gensim, a framework created by Radim ehek, is extensively implemented
in order to discern patterns and extract insights from vast text corpora.
Gensim offers streamlined executions of widely used algorithms for topic
modelling, including latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA), hierarchical
Dirichlet process (HDP), and latent semantic analysis (LSA). These
algorithms facilitate the identification of latent themes within a given
corpus of documents. Gensim facilitates the computation of document
similarities in accordance with their respective content. It employs cosine
similarity and document embedding’s to determine the degree of similarity
between texts.
Gensim facilitates the generation and control of word embeddings, which
are continuous vector spaces containing dense vector representations of
words. It incorporates word embedding training algorithms such as
Word2Vec and FastText, which utilize extensive text corpora. Gensim offers
text preprocessing utilities such as lemmatization, stemming, tokenization,
and stop word elimination. It is crucial to perform these preprocessing
processes in order to cleanse and prepare text data for modelling. Gensim is
engineered to efficiently manageextensive datasets. By incorporating
streaming and incremental algorithms, this system enables users to process
and analyses enormous text corpora that may exceed the available memory
capacity. Other Python libraries frequently employed in the fields of natural
language processing and machine learning, including Scikit-learn and
NLTK (Natural Language Toolkit), seamlessly integrate with Gensim. This
interoperability enables the development of NLP pipelines and workflows
from beginning to end.
With its intuitive interface and extensive documentation, Gensim is
accessible to practitioners of all experience levels, including novices. It

--- Strana 28 ---
provides tutorials and illustrative examples to aid users in comprehending
and effectively employing its features. An active community of users and
developers contributes to the creation and maintenance of Gensim. Through
forums, mailing lists, and social media channels, users are able to solicit
assistance, pose inquiries, and engage in collaborative efforts.
1.10 SpaCy
Python SpaCy is a robust and effective natural language processing (NLP)
library. Its rapidity, precision, and readiness for production make it an
outstanding option for a vast array of NLP tasks. SpaCy is described in the
following five paragraphs: SpaCy offers an extensive array of
functionalities to facilitate the processing and analysis of textual data. These
include sentence segmentation, named entity recognition (NER),
tokenization, and part-of-speech labelling. By utilizing these functionalities,
subsequent natural language processing (NLP) endeavors, including
sentiment analysis, information retrieval, and text classification, are
empowered to extract meaningful data from text documents.
The quickness and effectiveness of SpaCy are two of its primary
strengths. Operating at a considerably higher speed than numerous
alternative natural language processing (NLP) libraries, it is optimized for
performance and is well-suited for the real-time or batch processing of
substantial quantities of text data. SpaCy attains this level of efficacy by
leveraging Cython, which is a superset of Python and enables effective
optimizations at the C-level. SpaCy is also distinguished by its precision
and robustness. For tasks such as part-ofspeech labelling and named entity
recognition, it generates accurate forecasts by utilizing cutting-edge neural
network architectures trained on massive annotated datasets. Furthermore,
SpaCy provides users with the capability to modify and refine its models in

--- Strana 29 ---
order to accommodate particular domains or use cases, thereby enhancing
its efficacy in specialized endeavors.
SpaCy provides pre-trained models in numerous languages, such as
Spanish, German, French, and English, among others. The pre-existing
linguistic annotations and word vectors of these models allow users to
commence natural language processing (NLP) endeavors without requiring
substantial training data or specialized expertise in the field. In addition, the
user-friendly API and modular design of SpaCy facilitate its seamless
integration with Python workflows and applications that are already in
place. SpaCy provides tools for visualizing linguistic annotations,
investigating language data, and training custom models, in addition to its
primary functionality.

--- Strana 30 ---
CHAPTER 2
Neural Networks
Neural networks have evolved from the field of artificial intelligence (AI)
as an attempt to mimic the brain’s ability to learn and adapt to complex
patterns in data. They are a fundamental component of machine learning, a
subset of AI, where they excel at tasks such as classification, regression,
pattern recognition, and decision making. Neural networks have gained
significant importance in modern society due to their ability to solve a wide
range of real-world problems across various domains [1, 2].
Neural networks can learn complex patterns and relationships in data,
making them effective in tasks such as image recognition, speech
recognition, and natural language processing. This capability is crucial for
applications like facial recognition systems, voice assistants, and automated
language translation. Neural networks can be trained to make predictions
based on input data, enabling applications such as financial forecasting,
medical diagnosis, and predictive maintenance in industries.By analyzing
historical data, neural networks can anticipate future trends and outcomes
with high accuracy [2, 3].
Neural networks play a key role in developing autonomous systems,
including self-driving cars, drones, and robots. These systems rely on neural
networks to perceive their environment, make decisions, and adapt to
changing conditions in real-time, leading to advancements in transportation,
logistics, and manufacturing. Neural networks power recommendation
systems used by online platforms to personalize user experiences. By
analyzing user behavior and preferences, these systems can suggest relevant
products, movies, music, or articles, enhancing user engagement and

--- Strana 31 ---
satisfaction. The artificial intelligence play major role in optimize the
performance of book converter which is mentioned below:
Boost converters are crucial in solar photovoltaic (SPV) systems for
stepping up the voltage from the solar panels to levels suitable for use.
Traditional boost converters, both isolated and non-isolated, have several
limitations such as low voltage gain, significant voltage ripples, temperature
dependence, high voltage stress across switches, and bulkiness. To address
these issues, the integration of artificial intelligence (AI) techniques has
been explored, offering significant improvements in performance,
efficiency, and reliability. The cuckoo search optimization (CSO) algorithm,
inspired by the brood parasitism of some cuckoo species, is an effective AI
technique for optimizing the performance of boost converters. In the
context of SPV systems, CSO-based MPPT controllers have shown superior
accuracy in tracking the maximum power point (MPP) under dynamic
climatic conditions compared to traditional methods. The CSO algorithm
enhances the boost converter’s ability to quickly adapt to changes in
irradiation and temperature, reducing power ripples and improving voltage
gain [3, 4].
Particle swarm optimization (PSO) is another AI technique used to
improve boost converter performance. PSO-based MPPT controllers
optimize the tracking speed and accuracy of the MPP, particularly under
partial shading conditions. By simulating social behavior patterns observed
in nature, PSO algorithms enable the boost converter to achieve higher
efficiency and stability. The adaptive nature of PSO allows for real-time
adjustments, minimizing voltage stress and ensuring consistent power
output. Fuzzy logic controllers (FLC) utilize fuzzy set theory to handle the
non-linearity and uncertainties in SPV systems. An FLC-based MPPT
controller can dynamically adjust the duty cycle of the boost converter,

--- Strana 32 ---
optimizing the output voltage and current. This technique is especially
effective in maintaining stable power output and enhancing voltage gain
under varying atmospheric conditions. FLC provides robust performance by
smoothly handling the transitions between different operating points,
reducing the impact of ripples and voltage stress [5, 6].
Artificial neural networks (ANNs) are employed to predict and optimize
the performance of boost converters. ANNs are capable of learning from
historical data and making real-time adjustments to the converter’s
operation. By incorporating ANN-based MPPT controllers, boost converters
can achieve higher accuracy in MPP tracking and improve overall system
efficiency. The ability of ANNs to model complex non-linear relationships
in SPV systems results in enhanced voltage gain and reduced power losses.
Genetic algorithm optimization (GAO) mimics the process of natural
selection to optimize the performance of boost converters. GAO-based
MPPT controllers iteratively evolve solutions to find the optimal operating
points for the converter. This technique enhances the efficiency of power
conversion by reducing voltage ripples and stress across switches [7, 8, 9].
2.1 Perceptron
Inspired by actual brain neurons, Frank Rosenblatt’s 1957 perceptron was a
watershed moment in the evolution of artificial neural networks. The
perceptron is a basic building block for more complex neural network
designs; it is a one-layer network that is mostly used for binary
categorization. Using its core features, it tries to sort incoming data into two
separate buckets.
The central component of a perceptron is an input layer that takes in
signals that stand in for features in the surrounding environment. A weight
is given to each input signal to indicate its importance in the categorization
process. In order to maximize the network’s performance, these weights are

--- Strana 33 ---
adjusted as parameters during training. An essential part of the perceptron is
the activation function, which defines the network’s output by computing
the weighted sum of the input signals.Whether the weighted total is greater
than a certain threshold determines the output, which is usually a binary
value of 0 or 1. So that the input data may be more easily classified, this
output is used as the projected class label.
Adjusting the weights iteratively depending on the discrepancy between
the projected and actual output is key to a perceptron’s training routine. The
perceptron learning algorithm aims to optimize the weights and minimize
classification mistakes using a version of gradient descent. Nevertheless,
the perceptron does have certain limitations, even if it is very important.
Because it can only learn linear decision limits, it can’t model complex data
relationships. Its effectiveness decreases in cases with noisy or overlapping
classes, and it could have trouble converging if the data isn’t linearly
separable. Notwithstanding these limitations, the groundbreaking work of
the perceptron paved the way for the creation of more advanced neural
network designs including deep neural networks (DNNs) and multi-layer
perceptrons (MLPs). Machine learning and artificial intelligence have come
a long way thanks to these sophisticated designs, which use non-linear
activation functions and numerous layers of neurons to learn intricate data
patterns [10], [11].
Using a straightforward update method called the perceptron learning
rule or the delta rule, the perceptron learning algorithm converges and
learns.When the actual output differs from the projected output, this rule
modifies the weights of the connections between the input and output
layers. In order to minimize the error and enhance the model’s accuracy, the
weights are adjusted iteratively. A linear function serves as the decision
border for a perceptron, dividing the input space into two areas that

--- Strana 34 ---
represent the two classes that could be considered. A straight line represents
the decision boundary in two dimensions, but a hyperplane represents it in
higher dimensions. Data having non-linear correlations are beyond the
perceptron’s capacity to classify because it can only learn linear decision
boundaries.
The multi-layer perceptron (MLP) and other multi-layer neural networks
can learn complicated non-linear patterns in data, in contrast to the basic
perceptron which can only learn linear decision boundaries. Improving
upon the perceptron’s shortcomings, these developments have paved the
way for AI and machine learning to reach new heights.
Theoretical aspects of the perceptron algorithm were crucial to the
advancement of AI and neural network theory. Despite its early decline in
popularity caused by difficulties in dealing with non-linear data, it rekindled
interest in neural networks as deep learning made a comeback in the 21st
century. Assumption of perceptron convergence: If the training data is
linearly separable, then the perceptron learning algorithm will converge and
discover a solution, according to the perceptron convergence theorem, one
of the important theoretical results related to the perceptron. Simply put, the
perceptron method will converge to a set of weights that achieve a complete
separation of data points from various classes if there is a hyperplane that
can do so. Nevertheless, the perceptron algorithm could fail to converge if
the data isn’t separable along linear lines [12], [13].
Contrast this with the multi-layer perceptron (MLP), which expands upon
the perceptron by adding concealed layers of neurons with non-linear
activation functions, in contrast to the fundamental perceptron’s limitation
to single-layer structures with linear decision boundaries. As a result, MLPs
are able to tackle more difficult classification problems and understand
intricate non-linear correlations in the data. In the past, perceptron

--- Strana 35 ---
activation functions were either step functions or threshold functions; these
functions determine if the weighted sum of inputs is greater than a given
threshold, and the perceptron’s output was either 0 or 1. Multi-layer
perceptrons, on the other hand, are trained using non-linear activation
functions like rectified linear unit (ReLU), sigmoid, or tanh. This allows the
network to understand and represent input with non-linear correlations.
When training a multi-layer perceptron (MLP) or convolutional neural
network (CNN), the goal is to minimize a loss function, which quantifies
the discrepancy between the training data’s actual labels and the anticipated
outputs.
Iteratively updating the weights and improving the network’s
performance is a typical practice in optimization techniques like gradient
descent and its derivatives. Python packages such as NumPy and
TensorFlow make it easy to build a perceptron or MLP from the ground up.
But new deep learning frameworks like Keras, TensorFlow, and PyTorch
make it easy to construct, train, and deploy neural networks like perceptrons
and MLPs by providing high-level APIs and abstractions.
In terms of real-world applications, more sophisticated architectures like
CNNs for picture processing and RNNs for sequential data tend to put
perceptrons and MLPs in their proper historical context, but they still have
their place in the annals of neural network theory. To really grasp deep
learning and neural networks, one must be familiar with the ideas and
concepts behind perceptrons and MLPs. Pattern recognition tasks, such as
handwritten digit recognition, speech recognition, and facial recognition,
have utilized perceptrons. Perceptrons in these applications acquire the
ability to categorize input patterns into distinct groups by utilizing the
derived features from the data. Perceptrons are utilized in medical diagnosis
systems to analyses medical data and aid in the identification of disorders.

--- Strana 36 ---
Perceptrons can be trained to classify medical pictures such as X-rays and
MRI scans in order to identify abnormalities. They can also classify patient
records by analyzing symptoms and test results.
2.1.1 Digit classification
Digit classification is a fundamental task in machine learning with
numerous essential applications across various fields. It is a core component
of optical character recognition (OCR) systems, which convert handwritten
or printed text into editable and searchable digital formats, enhancing data
accessibility and efficiency. In finance and banking, digit classification
automates the entry of handwritten checks, invoices, and forms, reducing
manual effort and errors while speeding up processing times. Postal
services use digit classification to automatically read and sort handwritten
addresses and zip codes, improving mail sorting accuracy and delivery
speed. Educational tools employ this technology to grade handwritten
assignments and tests, providing immediate feedback and easing the
workload on educators. Additionally, digit classification is integral to
assistive technologies that convert written text into audio for visually
impaired individuals. It also plays a crucial role in processing various forms
quickly and accurately, from surveys and feedback forms to official
documents like tax forms and applications, streamlining workflows across
industries.

--- Strana 37 ---
Code 2.1:
import numpy as np
from sklearn.datasets import load_digits
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
from sklearn.preprocessing import StandardScaler
from sklearn.metrics import accuracy_score
from sklearn.linear_model import Perceptron as SklearnPerceptron
from sklearn.multiclass import OneVsRestClassifier import matplotlib.pyplot as 
plt
# Load the dataset digits = load_digits()
# Split the dataset into training and testing sets
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(digits.data, digits.target, 
test_size=0.2, random_state=42)
# Scale the features scaler = StandardScaler()
X_train = scaler.fit_transform(X_train)
X_test = scaler.transform(X_test)
# Initialize and train the perceptron using OneVsRestClassifier for multi-class 
classification
perceptron = OneVsRestClassifier(SklearnPerceptron(max_iter=1000, tol=1e-
3, eta0=0.01))
perceptron.fit(X_train, y_train)
# Make predictions on the test set predictions = perceptron.predict(X_test)
# Calculate accuracy
accuracy = accuracy_score(y_test, predictions) print("Accuracy:", accuracy)
# Plot some of the test digits along with their predictions
fig, 
axes 
= 
plt.subplots(3, 
5, 
figsize=(10, 
6)) 
for 
i, 
ax 
in 
enumerate(axes.flat):
ax.imshow(X_test[i].reshape(8, 8), cmap=’binary’)
ax.set_title(f"Predicted: {predictions[i]}, Actual: {y_test[i]}") ax.axis(‘off’)
plt.tight_layout() plt.show()
The Python code provided in Code 2.1 demonstrates the application of a
perceptron model for digit classification using the ‘digits’ dataset from
‘Scikitlearn’. Initially, the dataset is loaded and split into training and
testing sets, ensuring an 80–20 split with a random state for reproducibility.
The features are then scaled using ‘StandardScaler’ to standardize the
dataset, which is essential for the perceptron model to perform optimally.
The perceptron classifier is implemented using ‘OneVsRestClassifier’ from
‘Scikit-learn’ to handle the multi-class classification task. The model is
trained with a maximum of 1000 iterations and a tolerance level of 1e-3 for
convergence, with an initial learning rate of 0.01. After training, predictions
are made on the test set, and the accuracy of these predictions is calculated
and printed. The code also includes a visualization section where a subset of

--- Strana 38 ---
the test digits is plotted alongside their predicted and actual labels for a
visual inspection of the model’s performance. The overall process ensures a
robust implementation, leveraging Scikit-learn’s efficient tools to achieve a
high classification accuracy.
The perceptron model achieved an accuracy of 95.28% on the ‘digits’
dataset, indicating it correctly classified 95.28% of the test samples.The
process began by loading and splitting the dataset into training (80%) and
testing (20%) sets. Features were then standardized using ‘StandardScaler,
ensuring each feature had a mean of 0 and a standard deviation of 1, which
helped the perceptron converge faster and perform better. The model was
trained using OneVsRestClassifier to handle the multi-class classification
problem, with parameters set to allow up to 1000 iterations, a tolerance of
1e-3 for convergence, and an initial learning rate of 0.01. After training, the
model made predictions on the test set, and the accuracy score was
calculated by comparing these predictions to the actual labels. The high
accuracy of 95.28% demonstrates the model’s effectiveness in classifying
handwritten digits.
2.2 Multilayer Perceptron
The term ‘multi-layer perceptron’ (MLP) refers to a specific kind of
artificial neural network that uses interconnected layers of neurons. Several
machine learning tasks, such as pattern recognition, classification, and
regression, make advantage of this robust and flexible framework. To begin
with, a multi-layer perceptron (MLP) takes features from the dataset and
stores them in an input layer. In this layer, the quantity of neurons is directly
proportional to the quantity of features included in the input data, with each
neuron standing in for a feature. A hidden layer or layers may exist between
the input and output layers. With connections to all neurons in both the
preceding and next layers, each hidden layer is made up of several neurons.

--- Strana 39 ---
The MLP is able to understand intricate data patterns and relationships
thanks to these hidden layers.
In regression tasks, the output of the network is a single value; in
classification tasks, it is a probability distribution across many classes. This
is achieved by means of the last layer of the MLP. How many neurons make
up the output layer is directly related to the type of problem that needs
solving. With the help of a bias term and an activation function, each
neuron in a multi-layer perceptron (MLP) calculates the weighted total of
its inputs. A network’s ability to learn and express complicated relationships
in data is enhanced by activation functions, which introduce non-linearity.
Sigmoid, tanh, ReLU, and softmax are some of the most common activation
functions. To train a multi-layer perceptron (MLP), one uses the
backpropagation algorithm, which entails calculating the loss function’s
gradient with regard to the network’s weights and then modifying the
weights using gradient descent or its variations. By effectively sending the
mistake back across the network, backpropagation lets the model learn from
its errors and gradually gets better. Multi-layer perceptrons (MLPs) are
extraordinarily adaptable neural network topologies that may discover
intricate data patterns and relationships. They are an essential component of
state-of-the-art deep learning systems and have shown usefulness in many
machine learning applications. In MLPs, weights denote the strength of
connections between neurons in neighboring layers, while biases enable the
network to acquire knowledge of data offsets and biases. Layers of the
network apply their weights and activation functions to the input data as it
passes through them in feedforward propagation, resulting in an output.
2.2.1 Financial forecasting
Financial forecasting holds immense importance as it enables businesses,
investors, and financial institutions to make informed decisions and plan for

--- Strana 40 ---
the future effectively. By predicting future financial outcomes based on
historical data and current market trends, financial forecasting helps
organizations allocate resources, manage cash flow, set realistic goals, and
mitigate risks. For businesses, accurate forecasting assists in budgeting,
identifying areas for growth, and optimizing operations. Investors rely on
financial forecasts to make investment decisions, assess the performance of
their portfolios, and identify potential opportunities or threats in the market.
Financial institutions use forecasting to evaluate creditworthiness, manage
lending risks, and ensure regulatory compliance. Overall, financial
forecasting plays a pivotal role in driving strategic decision making,
ensuring financial stability, and achieving long-term success in an ever-
changing economic landscape.
The program provided in Code 2.2 demonstrates the use of a multi-layer
perceptron (MLP) for financial forecasting and analysis. It begins by
generating synthetic stock price data for demonstration purposes,
mimicking the movement of stock prices over a specified time period. This
synthetic data is then organized into a DataFrame containing dates and
corresponding stock prices.

--- Strana 41 ---
Code 2.2:
#multilayer perceptron 
import numpy as np 
 import pandas as pd 
 from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split 
 from sklearn.preprocessing import StandardScaler 
 from sklearn.neural_network import MLPRegressor 
 from sklearn.metrics import mean_squared_error, r2_score 
 import matplotlib.pyplot as plt 
 # Load the dataset 
 # For demonstration purposes, let’s generate some synthetic stock price data. 
 # In a real-world scenario, you would load actual historical stock price data. 
 np.random.seed(42) 
 dates = pd.date_range(‘2020-01-01’, periods=100) 
 stock_prices = np.cumsum(np.random.randn(100)) + 100 # Generate some 
 synthetic stock prices 
 # Create a DataFrame 
 data = pd.DataFrame({’Date’: dates, ‘StockPrice’: stock_prices}) 
 # Prepare the features and labels 
 # Use the previous day’s stock price to predict the next day’s price 
 data[‘PreviousPrice’] = data[‘StockPrice’].shift(1) 
 data = data.dropna() 
 X = data[[‘PreviousPrice’]].values 
 y = data[‘StockPrice’].values 
 # Split the dataset into training and testing sets 
 X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.2, ran- 
 dom_state=42) # Scale the features 
 scaler = StandardScaler() 
 X_train = scaler.fit_transform(X_train) 
 X_test = scaler.transform(X_test) 
 # Initialize and train the MLPRegressor 
 mlp = MLPRegressor(hidden_layer_sizes=(50, 50), max_iter=1000, activa- 
 tion=’relu’, solver=’adam’, random_state=42) 
 mlp.fit(X_train, y_train) 
 # Make predictions on the test set 
 y_pred = mlp.predict(X_test) 
 # Calculate performance metrics 
 mse = mean_squared_error(y_test, y_pred) 
 r2 = r2_score(y_test, y_pred) 
 print(f"Mean Squared Error: {mse}") 
 print(f"R ∧ 2 Score: {r2}")
The program prepares the data for training by creating a feature matrix ‘X’
containing the previous day’s stock prices and a target vector ‘y’ containing
the current day’s stock prices. After splitting the dataset into training and
testing sets using ‘train_test_split’, the features are scaled using
‘StandardScaler’ to ensure that each feature has a mean of 0 and a standard
deviation of 1, which helps improve the performance of the MLP.

--- Strana 42 ---
An ‘MLPRegressor’ model is then initialized and trained using the
training data. The model architecture consists of two hidden layers, each
with 50 neurons, and employs the ReLU activation function. The Adam
optimizer is used to optimize the model parameters during training. After
training, the model makes predictions on the test set, and performance
metrics such as mean squared error (MSE) and R-squared score (R ∧ 2) are
calculated to evaluate the model’s accuracy and performance. Finally, the
program visualizes the actual vs. predicted stock prices using ‘matplotlib’,
providing a visual representation of how well the model predicts the stock
price movement over time. It appears that the program achieved an
accuracy of 83.00% on a particular task. This accuracy score suggests how
well the model, likely a classifier trained on the movie reviews data,
performed in predicting sentiment or some other aspect of the reviews.
2.3 Radial Basis Function Network
A radial basis function network (RBFN) is an artificial neural network that
employs radial basis functions as activation functions. The neural network
is composed of several layers, which include an input layer, a hidden layer
with radial basis functions, and an output layer. Below is an analysis of the
fundamental elements and principles of radial basis function networks: The
input layer of a radial basis function network (RBFN) takes input
characteristics directly from the dataset. Every individual neuron in the
input layer represents a distinct characteristic, and the quantity of neurons
corresponds to the quantity of characteristics in the input data. The hidden
layer of a RBFN is comprised of radial basis functions (RBFs). Radial basis
functions are mathematical functions that solely rely on the distance from a
central point, referred to as the centroid or prototype vector. Every
individual neuron in the hidden layer is linked to a prototype vector and

--- Strana 43 ---
calculates its output by measuring the distance between the input data and
the centroid.
Radial basis functions are commonly Gaussian functions, although
alternative radial basis functions such as the inverse multiquadric function
can also be employed. The output layer of a radial basis function network
(RBFN) calculates the ultimate output of the network by using the outputs
of the neurons in the hidden layer. For regression tasks, it can be composed
of a solitary neuron, whereas for classification tasks, it can be composed of
several neurons. The training process of a radial basis function network
(RBFN) consists of two primary steps: centroid selection and parameter
optimization. Centroid selection entails identifying the central points
(centroids) for the radial basis functions, typically by the utilization of
clustering methods such as k-means clustering. Parameter optimization
entails adjusting the parameters of the radial basis functions, such as the
Gaussian functions’ width (σ), as well as any other parameters that are
specific to the selected radial basis function. After being trained, a radial
basis function network (RBFN) has the capability to generate forecasts for
new input data by transmitting the data through the network and calculating
the output of the neurons in the output layer.
RBFNs are utilized in diverse fields because of their capacity to estimate
intricate non-linear relationships in data. Notable applications of RBFNs are
frequently employed for the purpose of approximating an unknown function
by utilizing input–output pairs. These methods have been utilized in various
domains, including signal processing, control systems, and physics
simulations, to represent intricate nonlinear connections between input and
output variables. RBFNs are employed for regression analysis tasks,
whereby the objective is to forecast continuous numerical values by using
input data. These methods have been utilized in financial forecasting, stock

--- Strana 44 ---
market prediction, and time series analysis to anticipate future values by
analyzing past data. RBFNs can also be employed for classification jobs,
which involve categorizing input data into distinct categories or classes.
These techniques have been utilized in various fields, including medical
diagnosis, problem detection, and pattern recognition, to categorize data
into specific groups based on input characteristics.

--- Strana 45 ---
2.3.1 Air quality prediction
Code 2.3:
import numpy as np 
 import pandas as pd 
 from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split 
 from sklearn.preprocessing import StandardScaler 
 from sklearn.metrics import mean_squared_error 
 from sklearn.pipeline import make_pipeline 
 from sklearn.kernel_approximation import RBFSampler  
 from sklearn.linear_model import Ridge 
 # Set random seed for reproducibility 
 np.random.seed(42) 
 # Generate synthetic data for air quality prediction 
 num_samples = 1000 
 # Generating random values for environmental factors: temperature, humidity, 
 wind speed 
 temperature = np.random.uniform(10, 35, num_samples) # Temperature in 
 Celsius 
 humidity = np.random.uniform(20, 80, num_samples) # Humidity in percent- 
 age wind_speed = np.random.uniform(0, 20, num_samples) # Wind speed in km/h 
 # Assuming air quality is influenced by the environmental factors 
 air_quality = 50 + 0.5 * temperature - 0.2 * humidity + 0.3 * wind_speed + 
 np.random.normal(0, 5, num_samples) 
 # Create a DataFrame to store the synthetic data 
 data = pd.DataFrame({ 
 ‘Temperature’: temperature, 
 ‘Humidity’: humidity, 
 ‘WindSpeed’: wind_speed, 
 ‘AirQuality’: air_quality 
 }) 
 # Save the synthetic data to a CSV file 
 data.to_csv(‘synthetic_air_quality_data.csv’, index=False) 
 # Display the first few rows of the generated data 
 print(data.head()) 
 # Load the synthetic dataset 
 data = pd.read_csv(‘synthetic_air_quality_data.csv’) 
 # Split the dataset into features and target variable 
 X = data[[‘Temperature’, ‘Humidity’, ‘WindSpeed’]] 
 y = data[‘AirQuality’] 
 # Split the data into training and testing sets 
 X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.2, ran- 
 dom_state=42) # Preprocess the data by scaling the features 
 scaler = StandardScaler() 
 X_train_scaled = scaler.fit_transform(X_train) 
 X_test_scaled = scaler.transform(X_test) 
 # Create a pipeline with RBFSampler and Ridge Regression 
 model = make_pipeline(RBFSampler(gamma=1, random_state=42), 
 Ridge(alpha=0.1)) 
 # Train the model 
 model.fit(X_train_scaled, y_train) 
 # Make predictions 
 y_pred_train = model.predict(X_train_scaled) 
 y_pred_test = model.predict(X_test_scaled) 
 # Calculate Mean Squared Error 
 mse_train = mean_squared_error(y_train, y_pred_train) 
 mse_test = mean_squared_error(y_test, y_pred_test) 

--- Strana 46 ---
 print(f’Training MSE: {mse_train:.2f}’) 
 print(f’Testing MSE: {mse_test:.2f}’)
The Python program provided in Code 2.3 generates synthetic data for air
quality prediction and then trains a machine learning model to predict air
quality levels based on environmental factors such as temperature,
humidity, and wind speed. First, it generates synthetic data for
demonstration purposes, including random values for temperature,
humidity, and wind speed. The air quality levels are then computed as a
function of these environmental factors, along with some random noise
added for variability. This synthetic data is stored in a Pandas DataFrame
and saved to a CSV filenamed ‘synthetic_air_quality_data.csv’. Next, the
program loads the synthetic dataset from the CSV file and splits it into
features (temperature, humidity, wind speed) and the target variable (air
quality). The dataset is further divided into training and testing sets using
the train_test_split function from Scikit-learn, with 80% of the data used for
training and 20% for testing.
The features are then scaled using StandardScaler to ensure they are on
the same scale, which can improve the performance of some machine
learning algorithms. The model is constructed using a pipeline that includes
RBFSampler for approximating the radial basis function kernel and ridge
regression for prediction. The pipeline simplifies the preprocessing steps
and model construction. The model is trained on the training data using the
fit method. After training, the model makes predictions on both the training
and testing datasets using the predict method. Finally, the program
calculates the mean squared error (MSE) for both the training and testing
predictions to evaluate the model’s performance. The MSE quantifies the
average squared difference between the actual and predicted air quality

--- Strana 47 ---
levels, providing a measure of the model’s accuracy. The lower the MSE,
the better the model’s performance.
A lower training MSE signifies a better fit, suggesting that the model has
effectively captured the underlying patterns present in the training data.
Conversely, the testing MSE measures the average squared difference
between actual and predicted values on the testing dataset, providing insight
into the model’s ability to generalize to unseen data. Ideally, both the
training and testing MSEs should be minimized, reflecting a model that not
only fits the training data well but also generalizes effectively to new,
unseen data. In the context of air quality prediction, the relatively close
values of the training and testing MSEs–22.43 and 29.97, respectively–
suggest that the model exhibits reasonable performance in both fitting the
training data and generalizing to new observations.
2.4 Convolutional Neural Networks
CNNs are a class of deep neural networks primarily used for image
recognition, classification, segmentation, and other tasks involving visual
data. CNNs are inspired by the human visual system and are designed to
automatically and adaptively learn spatial hierarchies of features from input
images. CNNs consist of multiple layers, including convolutional layers,
pooling layers, and fully connected layers. Convolutional layers apply
convolutional filters to the input images, which helps in capturing spatial
patterns and features such as edges, textures, and shapes. Pooling layers
reduce the spatial dimensions of the feature maps, making the network
more computationally efficient and reducing overfitting. Fully connected
layers at the end of the network perform high-level reasoning and decision-
making based on the extracted features.
The core operation in CNNs is the convolution operation, where a
convolutional filter (also known as a kernel) is applied to the input image to

--- Strana 48 ---
produce a feature map. The filter slides over the input image, computing dot
products between the filter weights and the corresponding input pixels. This
process helps detect local patterns and features within the image. By
stacking multiple convolutional layers with different filters, CNNs can learn
hierarchical representations of features, starting from simple edges and
textures to more complex patterns and objects.
Pooling layers follow convolutional layers and serve to downsample the
feature maps obtained from convolution. Common pooling operations
include max pooling and average pooling, where the maximum or average
value within each pooling region is retained, respectively. Pooling helps
reduce the spatial dimensions of the feature maps, making the network
more robust to variations in input and reducing computational complexity.
CNNs revolutionized the field of computer vision by achieving state-of-the-
art performance in various tasks such as image classification, object
detection, and image segmentation. Their ability to automatically learn
hierarchical representations of features from raw pixel data makes them
highly effective for processing visual information. CNNs have been applied
in diverse domains, including healthcare (medical image analysis),
autonomous vehicles (object recognition), security (facial recognition), and
entertainment (image and video understanding).
One of the key advantages of CNNs is their ability to learn meaningful
features directly from raw data, without the need for handcrafted feature
engineering. This end-to-end feature learning enables CNNs to adapt to
different datasets and tasks, making them highly versatile. Moreover, CNNs
trained on large-scale datasets can capture generic features that are useful
across multiple tasks. Transfer learning leverages pre-trained CNN models
on large datasets and fine-tunes them on smaller, task-specific datasets,
allowing for efficient training with limited data. While CNNs have achieved

--- Strana 49 ---
remarkable success, they are not without challenges. Training deep CNNs
requires significant computational resources and large amounts of annotated
data. Overfitting, where the model learns noise in the training data, can also
be a concern, especially with limited data. Addressing these challenges
involves advancements in model architectures, regularization techniques,
and data augmentation strategies. Additionally, ongoing research is
exploring more efficient and interpretable CNN architectures, as well as
their integration with other types of neural networks, such as recurrent
neural networks (RNNs), for handling sequential data in tasks like video
analysis and natural language processing.

--- Strana 50 ---
2.4.1 Image classification
Code 2.4:
import cv2 
 import numpy as np 
 import random 
 import tensorflow as tf 
 # Function to draw a random shape (circle, square, or triangle) on a canvas 
 def draw_shape(canvas): 
 shape_type = random.choice([‘circle’, ‘square’, ‘triangle’]) 
 color = tuple(np.random.randint(0, 256, 3).tolist()) # Random color as a 
 tuple 
 if shape_type == ‘circle’: 
 center = (np.random.randint(20, 80), np.random.randint(20, 80)) 
 radius = np.random.randint(5, 15) 
 cv2.circle(canvas, center, radius, color, -1) 
 elif shape_type == ‘square’: 
 start_point = (np.random.randint(10, 60), np.random.randint(10, 60)) 
 end_point = (start_point[0] + np.random.randint(10, 20), start_point[1] + 
 np.random.randint(10, 20)) 
 cv2.rectangle(canvas, start_point, end_point, color, -1) 
 elif shape_type == ‘triangle’: 
 pt1 = (np.random.randint(10, 90), np.random.randint(10, 90)) 
 pt2 = (np.random.randint(10, 90), np.random.randint(10, 90)) 
 pt3 = (np.random.randint(10, 90), np.random.randint(10, 90)) 
 points = np.array([pt1, pt2, pt3], np.int32) 
 points = points.reshape((-1, 1, 2)) 
 cv2.polylines(canvas, [points], isClosed=True, color=color, thickness=1) 
 cv2.fillPoly(canvas, [points], color) 
 return shape_type, canvas # Return the shape type along with the canvas 
 # Function to generate synthetic dataset 
 def generate_dataset(num_samples): 
 images = [] 
 labels = [] 
 for _ in range(num_samples): 
 shape_type, canvas = draw_shape(np.zeros((100, 100, 3), dtype=np.uint8)) 
 # Draw shape on a blank canvas 
 images.append(canvas) 
 if shape_type == ‘circle’: 
 labels.append(0) 
 elif shape_type == ‘square’: 
 labels.append(1) 
 elif shape_type == ‘triangle’: 
 labels.append(2) 
 return np.array(images), np.array(labels) 
 # Generate synthetic dataset with 1000 samples 
 num_samples = 1000 
 X, y = generate_dataset(num_samples) 
 # Shuffle the dataset 
 indices = np.arange(num_samples) 
 np.random.shuffle(indices) 
 X = X[indices] 
 y = y[indices] 
 # Split the dataset into training and testing sets 
 split_ratio = 0.8 
 split_index = int(split_ratio * num_samples) 
 X_train, X_test = X[:split_index], X[split_index:] 
 y_train, y_test = y[:split_index], y[split_index:] 

--- Strana 51 ---
 # Convert labels to one-hot encoding 
 num_classes = 3 # Number of classes (circle, square, triangle) 
 y_train = tf.keras.utils.to_categorical(y_train, num_classes) 
 y_test = tf.keras.utils.to_categorical(y_test, num_classes) 
 # Define the CNN architecture 
 model = tf.keras.Sequential([ 
 tf.keras.layers.Conv2D(32, (3, 3), activation=’relu’, input_shape=(100, 100, 
 3)), 
 tf.keras.layers.MaxPooling2D((2, 2)), 
 tf.keras.layers.Conv2D(64, (3, 3), activation=’relu’), 
 tf.keras.layers.MaxPooling2D((2, 2)), 
 tf.keras.layers.Conv2D(64, (3, 3), activation=’relu’), 
 tf.keras.layers.Flatten(), 
 tf.keras.layers.Dense(64, activation=’relu’), 
 tf.keras.layers.Dense(num_classes, activation=’softmax’) 
 ]) 
 # Compile the model 
 model.compile(optimizer=’adam’, 
 loss=’categorical_crossentropy’, 
 metrics=[‘accuracy’]) 
 # Train the model 
 model.fit(X_train,y_train,epochs=10,batch_size=32, validation_data = (X_ 
 test, y_test)) 
 # Evaluate the model on the test set 
 test_loss, test_acc = model.evaluate(X_test, y_test, verbose=2) 
 print(‘\nTest accuracy:’, test_acc)
The program provided in Code 2.4 generates a synthetic dataset of images
containing three types of shapes: circles, squares, and triangles. These
shapes are drawn on a blank canvas using OpenCV, and each image is
associated with a corresponding label indicating the type of shape. The
dataset is then split into training and testing sets, with 80% of the samples
used for training and the remaining 20% for testing. The labels are
converted into one-hot encoding format to prepare them for classification.
Next, a convolutional neural network (CNN) model is defined using
TensorFlow’s Keras API, consisting of convolutional layers followed by
max-pooling layers to extract features from the images, and fully connected
layers for classification. The model is compiled with the Adam optimizer
and categorical cross-entropy loss function, suitable for multi-class
classification tasks. It is then trained on the training dataset for 10 epochs.
Finally, the trained model’s performance is evaluated on the test dataset,
and the accuracy of the model is printed. Overall, the program demonstrates

--- Strana 52 ---
the usage of CNNs for image classification tasks, specifically for
recognizing different shapes within the synthetic dataset.
The reported test accuracy of approximately 82% indicates the
performance of the trained convolutional neural network (CNN) model on
the unseen test dataset. This metric signifies the proportion of correctly
classified images out of the total number of test images. In this context, an
accuracy of around 82% suggests that the model performs reasonably well
in distinguishing between the different shapes present in the synthetic
dataset. While the accuracy is not perfect, it demonstrates that the CNN
model has learned meaningful features from the training data and can
generalize effectively to classify unseen images. Factors such as the
complexity of the shapes, variability within the dataset, and the architecture
of the CNN can influence the achieved accuracy. Overall, an accuracy of
approximately 82% is a positive outcome, indicating that the CNN model is
capable of classifying shapes with a high degree of success.
2.5 Recurrent Neural Network
A recurrent neural network (RNN) is an artificial neural network
specifically created to handle sequential or time-series data by preserving
an internal state or memory. RNNs, unlike feedforward neural networks,
have the ability to capture temporal connections in sequential data. This
makes them particularly suitable for applications that involve sequences,
such as natural language processing, speech recognition, time-series
forecasting, and handwriting recognition.
RNNs possess a notable characteristic in their capacity to retain a
concealed state that endures beyond time steps and impacts the handling of
following inputs. RNNs utilize a recurring connection to integrate
information from prior time steps into the current computation, enabling

--- Strana 53 ---
them to acquire knowledge of patterns and interdependencies in sequential
data.
An RNN’s fundamental structure has three primary elements:
Input layer: This layer is responsible for receiving input data at each time
step. The input can be denoted as a series of vectors, where each vector
corresponds to the characteristics of the data at a specific moment in time. It
calculates the hidden state at each time step by merging the current input
with the previous hidden state. The recurrent layer consists of connections
that enable the transmission of information throughout time and capture
temporal relationships within the data. The output layer produces output
predictions using the current hidden state or a combination of hidden states
from multiple time steps. The output layer has the capability to generate
predictions for tasks including classification, regression, or sequence
generation.
Recurrent neural networks (RNNs) can encounter the vanishing gradient
problem, which occurs when gradients become exceedingly small when
back-propagating through time. This issue hinders the ability of RNNs to
effectively learn long-range dependencies. In order to tackle this problem,
other versions of RNNs have been suggested, such as long short-term
memory (LSTM) networks and gated recurrent units (GRUs). These
architectures include specialized gating methods that enhance the ability of
RNNs to capture long-term relationships and address the issue of
disappearing gradients.
Some examples of the uses of recurrent neural networks are:
Language modelling and text generation: RNNs have the ability to
capture the sequential patterns in natural language and produce text
either at the character level or the word level.

--- Strana 54 ---
Speech recognition: RNNs have the ability to analyse consecutive
audio input and convert spoken words into written text.
Time-series prediction: RNNs have the ability to predict forthcoming
values of time-series data, including but not limited to stock prices,
weather patterns, and energy use.
Machine translation: RNNs have the ability to convert text from one
language to another by acquiring knowledge of the relationships
between words or phrases in distinct languages.
Handwriting identification: RNNs have the ability to identify
handwritten letters or symbols in sequential data. This allows for the
development of applications such as digit identification and signature
verification.
Sequence-to-sequence learning: RNNs can be employed for the
purpose of sequence-to-sequence learning, which involves mapping
input sequences to output sequences. Machine translation often
employs the usage of RNNs to encode a sentence in one language and
then decode it into another language.
Attention methods have been used into RNN designs to improve the
handling of extended sequences. Attention mechanisms enable the
model to concentrate on pertinent sections of the input sequence, hence
enhancing performance in tasks such as machine translation and
summarization.
Bidirectional RNNs allow information to travel in both directions,
from past to future and from future to past. This feature enables the
model to comprehend and handle sequential input more effectively by
encompassing both preceding and subsequent context in its
predictions.

--- Strana 55 ---
Hybrid topologies: RNNs are frequently employed in combination
with other neural network topologies. Convolutional neural networks
(CNNs) are capable of extracting features from sequential data. These
extracted features can then be inputted into an RNN for additional
processing.
RNNs have been utilised in the field of robotics and control systems to
develop predictive models of dynamic systems and carry out tasks
such as robotic control, motion planning, and trajectory prediction.
The intersection of real-time systems and edge computing: RNNs that
are lightweight, such as tinyRNN and microRNN, are specifically
created to be used on devices with limited resources and in edge
computing environments. These models facilitate the immediate
processing of sequential data in applications such as intelligent
sensors, Internet of Things (IoT) devices, and embedded systems.
RNNs are applicable in settings involving constant learning, where the
model needs to adjust to evolving surroundings or incoming data
streams as time progresses. Adaptive RNN architectures allow the
model to learn gradually and modify its internal representations when
new information is provided.
2.5.1 Anomaly detection in time series data
Anomaly detection in time series data is essential for various applications
across multiple domains, such as industry, finance, healthcare, and
cybersecurity. In industrial settings, identifying anomalies in sensor data
can prevent machinery failures through timely maintenance, thus avoiding
costly downtime. In finance, detecting unusual patterns in transaction data
can help uncover fraudulent activities, while in healthcare, anomalies in
physiological signals like ECG can signal critical health events, enabling
prompt medical intervention. Cybersecurity also benefits significantly from

--- Strana 56 ---
anomaly detection by identifying irregular patterns in network traffic, which
can indicate cyber-attacks or unauthorized access. Environmental
monitoring, quality control in manufacturing, and supply chain
management further underscore the necessity of anomaly detection, as it
helps in disaster preparedness, maintaining product consistency, and
optimizing logistics.
The benefits of anomaly detection in time series data are manifold,
including early warning systems, cost savings, improved safety, and
enhanced operational efficiency. By detecting problems early, organizations
can take proactive measures, reducing the costs associated with failures,
downtime, and fraudulent activities. In critical applications like healthcare
and industrial environments, anomaly detection can prevent accidents and
save lives, while in finance and operations it ensures better risk
management and resource optimization. Moreover, maintaining the integrity
and quality of data through anomaly detection is crucial for accurate
analysis and informed decision making, making it a pivotal tool for
ensuring the reliability, safety, and efficiency of various systems and
processes.

--- Strana 57 ---
Code 2.5:
import numpy as np 
 import matplotlib.pyplot as plt 
 from tensorflow.keras.models import Sequential 
 from tensorflow.keras.layers import LSTM, Dense 
 from sklearn.preprocessing import MinMaxScaler 
 # Generate synthetic time series data 
 def generate_synthetic_data(seq_length=1000, num_anomalies=10): 
 normal_data = np.sin(np.linspace(0, 50, seq_length)) 
 anomaly_data = normal_data.copy() 
 anomaly_indices = np.random.choice(seq_length, num_anomalies, 
 replace=False) 
 anomaly_data[anomaly_indices] = anomaly_data[anomaly_indices] + 
 np.random.normal(0, 1, num_anomalies) 
 return normal_data, anomaly_data, anomaly_indices 
 # Reshape data for RNN input 
 def create_dataset(data, time_steps=10): 
 X, y = [], [] 
 for i in range(len(data) - time_steps): 
 X.append(data[i:i + time_steps]) 
 y.append(data[i + time_steps]) 
 return np.array(X), np.array(y) 
 time_steps = 50 
 normal_data, anomaly_data, _ = generate_synthetic_data() 
 # Create datasets 
 X_train, y_train = create_dataset(anomaly_data, time_steps) 
 X_test, y_test = create_dataset(anomaly_data, time_steps) 
 # Normalize the data 
 scaler = MinMaxScaler() 
 X_train_flat = X_train.reshape(-1, 1) # Flatten to 2D array for scaler 
 X_train_scaled = scaler.fit_transform(X_train_flat).reshape(-1, time_steps, 1) 
 # Reshape back to 3D array after scaling 
 y_train_scaled = scaler.transform(y_train.reshape(-1, 1)) 
 X_test_flat = X_test.reshape(-1, 1) # Flatten to 2D array for scaler 
 X_test_scaled = scaler.transform(X_test_flat).reshape(-1, time_steps, 1) # 
 Reshape back to 3D array after scaling 
 y_test_scaled = scaler.transform(y_test.reshape(-1, 1)) 
 # Build the RNN model 
 model = Sequential() 
 model.add(LSTM(50, input_shape=(time_steps, 1), return_sequences = False 
 )) 
 model.add(Dense(1)) 
 model.compile(optimizer=’adam’, loss=’mse’) 
 # Train the model 
 history = model.fit(X_train_scaled, y_train_scaled, epochs=10, batch_size=32, 
 validation_split=0.2, verbose=1) 
 # Predictions 
 y_pred_scaled = model.predict(X_test_scaled) 
 y_pred = scaler.inverse_transform(y_pred_scaled) # Inverse scaling 
 # Plot the results 
 plt.figure(figsize=(12, 6)) 
 plt.plot(np.concatenate([y_train, y_test]), label=’True Data’) 
 plt.plot(range(len(y_train), len(y_train) + len(y_test)), y_test, label=’Test 
 Data’, linestyle=’–’) 
 plt.plot(range(len(y_train), len(y_train) + len(y_pred)), y_pred, 
 label=’Predicted Data’, linestyle=’–’) 
 plt.title(‘Synthetic Time Series Data and Predictions’, fontsize=14, 
 fontweight=’bold’) 
 plt.xlabel(‘Time’, fontsize=12, fontweight=’bold’) 

--- Strana 58 ---
 plt.ylabel(‘Value’, fontsize=12, fontweight=’bold’) 
 plt.legend() 
 plt.show()
The program provided in Code 2.5 generates synthetic time series data,
models it using a long short-term memory (LSTM) neural network for
anomaly detection, and visualizes the results. Initially, synthetic data is
generated with anomalies introduced into a sine wave signal. The data is
then split into training and testing sets, and MinMaxScaler is applied to
normalize the data. The LSTM model is constructed with an architecture
consisting of an LSTM layer followed by a dense output layer. The model is
trained on the scaled training data, and predictions are made on the scaled
testing data. Afterward, the predictions are inverse-scaled to obtain values
in the original data scale. Finally, the true data, testing data, and
corresponding predictions are plotted to visualize the performance of the
model in detecting anomalies in the time series data. The plot showcases the
true data, the portion of data used for testing, as shown in Figure 2.1, and
the model’s predictions, providing insights into the model’s accuracy in
identifying anomalies.

--- Strana 59 ---
Figure 2.1: Anomaly on time series data.
2.6 Long Short-term Memory
Long short-term memory (LSTM) is a specialized architecture of recurrent
neural networks (RNNs) that is specifically developed to tackle the problem
of learning long-term dependencies in sequential input. In contrast to
conventional RNNs, which frequently encounter difficulties in preserving
information across numerous time steps as a result of the vanishing gradient
problem, LSTM networks integrate specialized memory cells that enable
them to acquire and keep information over prolonged durations. The main
advancement of LSTM rests in its capacity to selectively keep or discard
information via gating mechanisms, which allow the model to control the
flow of information through the network.
The fundamental components of an LSTM unit consist of three key
elements: the input gate, the forget gate, and the output gate. The gates,
which consist of sigmoid and tanh activation functions, regulate the
information flow by determining the acceptance, retention, or rejection of
information at each time step. The input gate controls the influx of fresh
input data into the memory cell, while the forget gate determines which
information to eliminate from the memory cell’s previous state. The output
gate ultimately determines which information will be transmitted to the
subsequent time step or output layer.
Through the incorporation of these gating mechanisms, LSTM networks
are able to proficiently acquire and retain patterns, connections, and
interdependencies in sequential data. This makes them highly suitable for a
diverse array of applications, including language modelling, speech
recognition, machine translation, and time-series forecasting. LSTM
networks possess the capability to effectively capture long-term
relationships and address the issue of disappearing gradients. As a result,

--- Strana 60 ---
they have become a fundamental component of contemporary deep learning
architectures. This has facilitated the creation of more intricate and robust
models for analyzing and processing sequential data.
LSTM networks have played a crucial role in tackling the inherent
difficulties of analyzing sequential data, thanks to their strength and
adaptability. An important difficulty arises when dealing with sequences
that have varying lengths or missing data points. LSTM networks excel in
managing such situations by adaptively modifying their memory states and
selectively processing pertinent information, rendering them highly suitable
for tasks such as time-series prediction and modelling irregular sequences.
In addition, LSTM networks have facilitated progress in sequence-to-
sequence learning tasks. LSTM-based architectures have significantly
transformed machine translation, speech recognition, and picture captioning
applications by effectively encoding input sequences into fixed-size
representations and decoding them into output sequences. By incorporating
attention mechanisms with LSTM networks, their performance has been
significantly improved. This enhancement enables models to choose to
concentrate on relevant segments of the input sequence when decoding.
In addition, LSTM networks have been effectively utilized in fields
including healthcare, finance, and robotics, where the analysis of sequential
data is common. LSTM models have found applications in healthcare for
tasks such as patient monitoring, disease prediction, and medical picture
analysis. LSTM networks are utilized in finance for tasks including as
forecasting stock prices, implementing algorithmic trading strategies, and
managing risks. LSTM-based architectures in robotics facilitate the
perception and interpretation of intricate sequential data from sensors,
allowing robots to execute tasks such as navigation, manipulation, and
interaction with the environment.

--- Strana 61 ---
Long short-term memory (LSTM) networks have significantly
transformed the domain of analyzing and processing sequential data. They
have exceptional skills to model temporal relationships, manage irregular
sequences, and generate consistent sequences of data. Their extensive use in
several fields highlights their efficacy and adaptability in tackling a wide
array of practical problems. As the field of deep learning advances, LSTM
networks are anticipated to continue leading the way in innovation,
propelling progress in sequence modelling, generation, and comprehension.

--- Strana 62 ---
2.6.1 Battery state estimation
Code 2.6:
# LSTM for State of Battery 
 import numpy as np 
 import matplotlib.pyplot as plt 
 from sklearn.metrics import mean_squared_error 
 from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split 
 from tensorflow.keras.models import Sequential 
 from tensorflow.keras.layers import LSTM, Dense 
 # Generate synthetic battery data 
 def generate_battery_data(num_samples=1000, sequence_length=10): 
 # Generate random charge/discharge sequences 
 data = np.random.rand(num_samples, sequence_length) 
 return data 
 # Generate labels for battery data (state of battery) 
 def generate_labels(data): 
 # Calculate mean of each sequence 
 labels = np.mean(data, axis=1) 
 return labels 
 # Create LSTM model 
 def create_lstm_model(input_shape): 
 model = Sequential() 
 model.add(LSTM(50, input_shape=input_shape, return_sequences =False)) 
 model.add(Dense(1)) 
 model.compile(optimizer=’adam’, loss=’mse’) 
 return model 
 # Generate synthetic data 
 data = generate_battery_data() 
 labels = generate_labels(data) 
 # Split data into training and testing sets 
 
X_train, 
X_test, 
y_train, 
y_test 
= 
train_test_split(data, 
labels, 
test_size=0.2, 
 random_state=42) 
 # Reshape data for LSTM input (samples, time steps, features) 
 X_train = np.reshape(X_train, (X_train.shape[0], X_train.shape[1], 1)) 
 X_test = np.reshape(X_test, (X_test.shape[0], X_test.shape[1], 1)) 
 # Create and train LSTM model 
 model = create_lstm_model(input_shape=(X_train.shape[1], X_train .shape[2])) 
 
history 
= 
model.fit(X_train, 
y_train, 
epochs=10, 
batch_size=32, 
validation_data=(X_test, y_test), verbose=1) 
 # Evaluate the model 
 y_pred = model.predict(X_test) 
 mse = mean_squared_error(y_test, y_pred) 
 print("Mean Squared Error (MSE):", mse) 
 # Plot training and validation loss 
 plt.plot(history.history[‘loss’], label=’Training Loss’) 
 plt.plot(history.history[‘val_loss’], label=’Validation Loss’) 
 plt.xlabel(‘Epoch’) 
 plt.ylabel(‘Loss’) 
 plt.title(‘Training and Validation Loss’) 
 plt.legend() 
 plt.show()

--- Strana 63 ---
The program in Code 2.6 employs long short-term memory (LSTM) neural
networks to predict the state of a battery using synthetic data. It starts by
importing necessary libraries such as NumPy for numerical computations,
Matplotlib for data visualization, and Scikit-learn for evaluation metrics
like mean squared error (MSE). The synthetic battery data is generated
through a function that creates random charge and discharge sequences,
while another function calculates the mean of each sequence to generate
labels representing the battery’s state. Subsequently, the data is split into
training and testing sets using the ‘train_test_split’ function. The LSTM
model is constructed with a single LSTM layer followed by a dense output
layer, configured to minimize MSE loss with the Adam optimizer. The
training process involves fitting the model to the training data for a
specified number of epochs. After training, the model is evaluated on the
testing data to compute the MSE. Finally, the training and validation loss
are plotted to visualize the model’s performance over epochs, providing
insights into its training dynamics and generalization capabilities. This
program serves as a demonstration of LSTM usage for battery state
prediction, offering a foundational framework applicable to various
predictive modeling tasks in energy systems and beyond.
A mean squared error (MSE) value of approximately 0.0003 suggests that
the LSTM model’s predictions are quite close to the actual values,
indicating a relatively accurate prediction performance. In the context of
battery state prediction, this MSE value implies that the model’s predictions
are highly accurate, with minimal deviation from the true state values.
However, it’s essential to interpret this MSE value in the context of the
specific application and domain requirements. Depending on the criticality
of accurate battery state prediction, stakeholders may have different
tolerance levels for prediction errors. In some applications, such as battery

--- Strana 64 ---
management systems for electric vehicles or renewable energy storage,
even small prediction errors could have significant consequences.
Therefore, it’s crucial to assess the model’s performance comprehensively
and consider additional evaluation metrics and real-world validation before
deploying it in practical applications.
2.7 Gated Recurrent Unit
The gated recurrent unit (GRU) is a variant of the recurrent neural network
(RNN) architecture that aims to overcome some limitations of conventional
RNNs. Similar to other RNNs, the gated recurrent unit (GRU) is
specifically built to handle sequential data by preserving hidden states that
reflect temporal relationships. The GRU incorporates various significant
advancements to enhance the efficiency and efficacy of acquiring
knowledge from sequential data.
A GRU unit primarily comprises two gates: the update gate and the reset
gate. The gates regulate the transmission of data within the system and
allow the model to selectively modify and reset its concealed state
according to the input received at each moment in time. The update gate
specifies the proportion of previous information that should be retained in
the current concealed state, while the reset gate determines whether portions
of the previous information are pertinent for the current time step. A notable
characteristic of the GRU is its capacity to acquire and retain knowledge
about long-term relationships, while effectively addressing the issue of the
vanishing gradient that is frequently found in conventional RNNs. The
update gate of the GRU architecture enables the model to dynamically
control the flow of input, ensuring that crucial data is retained over
extended periods without being affected by the problem of vanishing
gradients.

--- Strana 65 ---
The GRU offers a computational edge over other types of RNNs, such as
LSTM, in terms of efficiency. The GRU has similar performance to LSTM
despite possessing a smaller number of parameters, resulting in faster
training and less susceptibility to overfitting, particularly on smaller
datasets. GRU networks are extensively utilized in many natural language
processing tasks, such as language modelling, machine translation,
sentiment analysis, and speech recognition. Due to their proficiency in
capturing long-term dependencies and effectively processing sequential
data, they are highly suitable for tasks that require analyzing and creating
sequences of text.
GRU networks have been applied in various domains including time
series prediction, music production, and video analysis, in addition to its
use in natural language processing. Due to their adaptability and efficiency
in representing data that occurs in a specific order, they are a viable option
for various tasks in different fields. In general, GRUs provide a robust and
effective structure for representing sequential data, overcoming certain
drawbacks of conventional RNNs. GRU networks have proven
indispensable in the field of deep learning due to their capacity to capture
long-term dependencies, address the issue of vanishing gradients, and
effectively handle sequential data. They have played a crucial role in
advancing applications that involve the analysis and production of
sequential data.
The flexibility and efficacy of GRU networks derive from their capacity
to catch complicated patterns and dependencies within sequential data,
making it crucial to comprehend this. The flexibility of GRU networks
makes them well-suited for tasks that need a deep understanding of
temporal correlations, such as time series forecasting, speech recognition,
and gesture detection. GRU networks are highly proficient in time series

--- Strana 66 ---
prediction as they effectively capture the fundamental patterns and trends
present in sequential data. This enables them to provide precise forecasts of
future values by leveraging past observations. GRU networks are capable of
efficiently analyzing audio signals over time in speech recognition tasks,
resulting in accurate identification of spoken words and phrases.
Furthermore, GRU networks are capable of analyzing sequential data that
represents hand movements or body gestures in gesture recognition
applications. This allows for the precise identification of certain gestures or
activities performed by users. The ability to comprehend and react to human
gestures in real-time has noteworthy consequences for human–computer
interaction systems, virtual reality applications, and robotics. Moreover,
GRU networks have exhibited encouraging outcomes in tasks related to
sequence generation, such as composing music and generating spoken
language. GRU networks can develop new compositions or words by
analyzing sequences of musical notes or text data. These generated
compositions or sentences will have similar patterns and structures as the
input data, showcasing the creative capabilities of artificial intelligence.
GRU networks are a subject of ongoing inquiry and invention in the field
of research and development. Scientists are consistently improving and
expanding the powers of GRU networks to tackle new difficulties and
opportunities in many fields, like as healthcare, finance, and autonomous
systems.
2.7.1 Machinery failure prediction
Machinery failure prediction is a critical aspect of industrial maintenance
and operations. By predicting when machinery is likely to fail, companies
can perform proactive maintenance, thereby reducing downtime, avoiding
costly repairs, and extending the lifespan of equipment. Traditional
maintenance strategies, such as scheduled maintenance and reactive

--- Strana 67 ---
maintenance, are often inefficient and expensive. Predictive maintenance,
enabled by advanced machine learning algorithms, offers a more effective
solution. One of the most promising techniques for this purpose involves
the use of gated recurrent units (GRUs), a type of recurrent neural network
(RNN) that excels in handling sequential data.
Predictive maintenance relies heavily on analyzing time-series data from
machinery, such as vibration readings, temperature, pressure, and other
sensor data. This data is inherently sequential, as it captures the state of the
machinery over time. Traditional machine learning models often struggle to
capture the temporal dependencies in such data, leading to suboptimal
predictions. This is where GRUs come into play. GRUs are designed to
handle sequences of data and are capable of retaining information over long
periods. This ability to remember and use past information makes GRUs
particularly well-suited for machinery failure prediction, as they can detect
patterns and trends that precede equipment failures.
GRUs offer several advantages over other types of RNNs, such as long
short-term memory (LSTM) networks, especially in the context of
machinery failure prediction. GRUs are computationally less complex,
which means they can be trained more quickly and with fewer resources.
They achieve this efficiency by using fewer gates than LSTMs, which
simplifies the model while maintaining performance. Additionally, GRUs
effectively mitigate the vanishing gradient problem, which is a common
issue in training traditional RNNs. This makes GRUs capable of learning
long-term dependencies more effectively, a crucial feature for accurately
predicting machinery failures based on historical data.
The Python program in Code 2.7 simulates equipment failure prediction
using synthetic data and implements the GRU algorithm. The synthetic data
generation function creates sensor readings with the potential for

--- Strana 68 ---
introducing anomalies, representing failure events. These anomalies are
randomly inserted into the data to mimic real-world equipment failures. The
GRU model, constructed using the Keras library, is trained on this synthetic
data to learn patterns indicative of equipment failures. During training, the
model optimizes its parameters to minimize binary cross-entropy loss and
maximize accuracy.

--- Strana 69 ---
Code 2.7:
import numpy as np 
 import matplotlib.pyplot as plt 
 from sklearn.metrics import accuracy_score, precision_score, recall_score 
 from tensorflow.keras.models import Sequential 
 from tensorflow.keras.layers import GRU, Dense 
 # Generate synthetic data for equipment sensor readings 
 def generate_synthetic_data(num_samples=1000, sequence_length=50, 
 num_features=5, anomaly_prob=0.1): 
 data = np.random.normal(0, 1, size=(num_samples, sequence_length, 
 num_features)) 
 labels = np.zeros(num_samples) 
 # Introduce anomalies (failure events) 
 for i in range(num_samples): 
 if np.random.rand() < anomaly_prob: 
 start_idx = np.random.randint(0, sequence_length // 2) 
 end_idx = np.random.randint(start_idx + 1, sequence_length) 
 data[i, start_idx:end_idx] += 5 # Increase sensor readings during 
 anomaly 
 labels[i] = 1 # Set label to 1 for anomaly 
 return data, labels 
 # Create GRU model 
 def create_gru_model(input_shape): 
 model = Sequential() 
 model.add(GRU(32, input_shape=input_shape)) 
 model.add(Dense(1, activation=’sigmoid’)) 
 
model.compile(optimizer=’adam’, 
loss=’binary_crossentropy’, 
metrics=
[‘accuracy’]) 
 return model 
 # Generate synthetic data 
 X, y = generate_synthetic_data() 
 # Split data into training and testing sets 
 split = int(0.8 * len(X)) 
 X_train, X_test = X[:split], X[split:] 
 y_train, y_test = y[:split], y[split:] 
 # Create and train GRU model 
 model = create_gru_model(input_shape=(X_train.shape[1], 
 X_train.shape[2])) 
 
history 
= 
model.fit(X_train, 
y_train, 
epochs=10, 
batch_size=32, 
validation_data=(X_test, y_test), verbose=1) 
 # Evaluate the model 
 y_pred = model.predict(X_test) 
 y_pred_classes = np.round(y_pred) # Convert probabilities to binary predictions 
 accuracy = accuracy_score(y_test, y_pred_classes) 
 precision = precision_score(y_test, y_pred_classes) 
 recall = recall_score(y_test, y_pred_classes) 
 print("Accuracy:", accuracy) 
 print("Precision:", precision) 
 print("Recall:", recall) 
 # Plot training and validation loss 
 plt.plot(history.history[‘loss’], label=’Training Loss’) 
 plt.plot(history.history[‘val_loss’], label=’Validation Loss’) 
 plt.xlabel(‘Epoch’) 
 plt.ylabel(‘Loss’) 
 plt.title(‘Training and Validation Loss’) 
 plt.legend() 
 plt.show()

--- Strana 70 ---
After training, the model’s performance is evaluated on a separate testing
dataset using metrics such as accuracy, precision, and recall, providing
insights into its predictive capabilities. Additionally, the program plots the
training and validation loss over epochs to visualize the training dynamics
and assess model convergence. Overall, this program serves as a
demonstration of utilizing GRU networks for equipment failure prediction,
offering a framework applicable to various predictive maintenance tasks in
industrial settings.
The high accuracy of 99.5% indicates that the GRU model effectively
predicts equipment failures, with only a small fraction of misclassifications.
The precision score of 95% implies that when the model predicts a failure,
it is correct 95% of the time, minimizing false positives. The perfect recall
score of 100% indicates that the model successfully identifies all actual
failure instances, minimizing false negatives. The relation between raining
and validation loss is shown in Figure 2.2. This combination of high
accuracy, precision, and recall demonstrates the robustness and reliability of
the GRU model in equipment failure prediction, making it a valuable tool
for proactive maintenance and operational efficiency in industrial
applications.

--- Strana 71 ---
Figure 2.2: Relation between training and validation loss.

--- Strana 72 ---
CHAPTER 3
Supervised Machine Learning
Machine learning (ML) is a branch of artificial intelligence (AI) that
enables systems to learn and improve from experience without being
explicitly programmed. At its core, machine learning involves the use of
algorithms that can identify patterns and make decisions based on data. This
data-driven approach allows systems to autonomously adapt and optimize
their performance over time. Common applications of machine learning
include image and speech recognition, recommendation systems, and
predictive analytics.
The process of machine learning typically involves several key steps:
data collection, data pre-processing, model selection, training, and
evaluation. Data collection is the first step, where relevant data is gathered
from various sources. This data is then cleaned and transformed in the pre-
processing phase to ensure it is suitable for training the model. Model
selection involves choosing the appropriate algorithm that best fits the
nature of the problem at hand. During training, the model learns from the
data by adjusting its parameters to minimize errors. Finally, the model’s
performance is evaluated using test data to ensure its accuracy and
effectiveness in real-world applications.
Machine learning is categorized into three main types: supervised
learning, unsupervised learning, and reinforcement learning. Supervised
learning uses labelled data to train models, enabling them to make
predictions or classify data accurately. Unsupervised learning, on the other
hand, deals with unlabeled data and aims to uncover hidden patterns or
intrinsic structures within the data. Reinforcement learning involves

--- Strana 73 ---
training models to make a sequence of decisions by rewarding them for
desirable actions and penalizing them for undesirable ones. Each type has
its unique strengths and is suited for different types of tasks, making
machine learning a versatile and powerful tool in the realm of AI.
Support vector machines (SVMs) are a fundamental principle in the
realm of artificial intelligence and data science. They provides a robust
framework for constructing predictive models from labelled data.
Supervised learning is an algorithm that gains knowledge from a training
dataset of input–output pairs. Each input is linked to a corresponding output
or label. The objective is to acquire knowledge of the correspondence or
connection between the input variables and the target variable, which
empowers the algorithm to generate forecasts on novel, unobserved data.
The method of guided learning generally entails multiple essential stages.
Initially, the training dataset is partitioned into input features and their
matching target labels. The algorithm subsequently acquires knowledge
from this labelled data to construct a model that effectively captures the
fundamental patterns and connections between the input and output
variables. Depending on the task and data characteristics, different
supervised learning techniques, such as linear regression, logistic
regression, decision trees, support vector machines (SVMs), and neural
networks, can be used.
After the model has been trained, it is assessed for its performance and
ability to generalize using a distinct validation dataset. Metrics such as
accuracy, precision, recall, F1-score, and mean squared error are frequently
employed to assess the model’s predicted accuracy and efficacy. The
validation dataset’s performance is indicative of the model’s robustness and
its capacity to make correct predictions on unseen data.

--- Strana 74 ---
Supervised learning is utilized in several disciplines and industries.
Health-care applications involve utilizing patient data to forecast disease
diagnosis and prognosis. Within the field of finance, it can be utilized to aid
in the evaluation of creditworthiness, identification of fraudulent activities,
and forecasting of stock prices. Marketing can benefit from the use of
consumer segmentation, churn prediction, and recommendation systems.
These applications utilize the predictive skills of supervised learning
models to make judgements based on data and extract practical insights
from the given data.
Supervised learning has a significant benefit in its capacity to utilize
labelled data for training precise predictive models. Supervised learning
algorithms utilize prior data to discern intricate patterns and correlations
present in the data, allowing them to generate well-informed predictions
about new, unseen instances. Nevertheless, supervised learning has specific
difficulties, including the requirement for extensive and superior labelled
datasets, the possibility of bias in the training data, and the potential for
overfitting if the model is excessively intricate or the training data is
inadequate.
Supervised learning is a fundamental technique in machine learning that
provides a systematic and efficient way to solve various prediction and
classification tasks. It offers essential resources to organizations and
academics for obtaining meaningful information from data, making well-
informed choices, and promoting innovation in different fields and
businesses.
3.1 Logistic Regression
A basic and popular statistical method in machine learning for binary
classification applications is logistic regression. Logistic regression predicts
the likelihood that an instance belongs to a specific class, as opposed to

--- Strana 75 ---
linear regression, which forecasts continuous outcomes. The logistic
regression model converts the linear combination of input data and model
coefficients into a probability score that is bounded between 0 and 1. It does
this by using the logistic function, often known as the sigmoid function. The
possibility of an occurrence falling into the positive class is represented by
this probability score, and the model determines the class label based on a
predetermined threshold (often 0.5). When there are two possible outcomes
for a categorical dependent variable, such as whether or not an email is
spam, if a transaction is fraudulent, or whether a patient has a certain
condition, logistic regression is especially well-suited.
The interpretability of logistic regression is one of its main benefits since
it sheds light on how each input feature affects the likelihood of the result.
Furthermore, compared to more intricate models, logistic regression is less
prone to overfitting, easy to apply, and computationally efficient.
Nevertheless, in real-world situations, this may not always hold true
because logistic regression relies on a linear relationship between the input
features and the log-odds of the outcome. Furthermore, when the decision
border between classes is linear or nearly linear, logistic regression works
well. Notwithstanding these drawbacks, logistic regression is nevertheless a
potent and extensively applied technique in many fields, providing the basis
for more complex classification algorithms and acting as a standard for
assessing model efficacy.
Through its coefficients, logistic regression offers significant insights
into the importance of each input feature. Practitioners can determine the
direction and strength of each feature’s influence on the expected likelihood
of the result by examining these coefficients. Because of its interpretability,
logistic regression is a popular option in industries like marketing, finance,
and healthcare where it’s critical to comprehend the link between input

--- Strana 76 ---
factors and the outcome. Furthermore, logistic regression can handle both
categorical and numerical input features, making it flexible for a wide range
of data types. It is also noise resistant. Furthermore, it is easily extensible to
multi-class classification issues with methods such as multi-nomial logistic
regression or one-versus-rest.
Logistic regression is not without its limits, despite its simplicity. It
makes the assumption that there is a linear relationship between the input
attributes and the log-odds of the result, which may not necessarily be the
case in intricate real-world situations. Furthermore, severely unbalanced
datasets or non-linear decision boundaries may cause logistic regression to
falter, necessitating the employment of more sophisticated models or pre-
processing methods. To sum up, logistic regression is a useful tool in the
toolbox of a data scientist because it strikes a balance between performance,
interpretability, and simplicity. Building a solid foundation in machine
learning and predictive modelling requires an understanding of its concepts
and properties, even though it might not always be the ideal option for
every categorization challenge.

--- Strana 77 ---
3.1.1 Prediction of sports outcome
Code 3.1:
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
from sklearn.linear_model import LogisticRegression
from 
sklearn.metrics 
import 
accuracy_score, 
confusion_matrix, 
classification_report
from sklearn.datasets import make_classification
# Generate synthetic data for predicting sports match outcomes
X, y = make_classification(n_samples=1000, n_features=10,
n_classes=2, random_state=42)
# Create a DataFrame for the synthetic data
data = pd.DataFrame(X, columns=[f’feature_{i+1}’ for i in range(X.shape[1])])
data[‘Outcome’] = y
# Split data into train and test sets
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split
(data.drop(‘Outcome’, axis=1), data[‘Outcome’], test_size=0.2, random_state=42)
# Train logistic regression model
model = LogisticRegression()
model.fit(X_train, y_train)
# Predict match outcomes on test set
predictions = model.predict(X_test)
# Evaluate accuracy
accuracy = accuracy_score(y_test, predictions)
print("Accuracy:", accuracy)
# Generate confusion matrix
conf_matrix = confusion_matrix(y_test, predictions)
print("\nConfusion Matrix:")
print(conf_matrix)
# Generate classification report
class_report = classification_report(y_test, predictions)
print("\nClassification Report:")
print(class_report)
# Plot confusion matrix
plt.figure(figsize=(8, 6))
plt.imshow(conf_matrix, cmap=plt.cm.Blues)
plt.title(‘Confusion Matrix’, fontsize=16, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.colorbar()
plt.xticks([0, 1], [‘Predicted Negative’, ‘Predicted Positive’],
fontsize=12, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.yticks([0, 1], [‘Actual Negative’, ‘Actual Positive’],
fontsize=12, fontweight=’bold’)
for i in range(2):
for j in range(2):
plt.text(j, i, str(conf_matrix[i, j]), ha=’center’,
va=’center’, color=’white’, fontsize=14, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.xlabel(‘Predicted Label’, fontsize=14, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.ylabel(‘True Label’, fontsize=14, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.show()

--- Strana 78 ---
You can see from Code 3.1 how logistic regression works in sports analytics
with this sample Python program that uses simulated data. To start, it uses
the Scikit-learn library’s ‘make_classification’ function to generate
synthetic data for use in making predictions about the results of sporting
events. A binary outcome variable indicates the match outcome, and
features represent team performance measures and player traits in this
synthetic data. The ‘train_test_split’ function is then used by the program to
divide this synthetic dataset into two parts: one for training and one for
testing only. The training data is used to train a logistic regression model
using the ‘LogisticRegression’ class from Scikit-learn. After training, the
model is applied to the testing set to forecast the results of matches. We
calculate a number of evaluation criteria to see how well the model worked.
Two of them are the accuracy score and the confusion matrix. The former
assesses the percentage of correct predictions and the latter breaks down the
predictions into true positives, true negatives, false positives, and false
negatives. In addition, a report detailing the categorization is created, which
provides an overview of the accuracy, recall, and F1-score for every
category. To provide a visual representation of the model’s performance, the
program uses matplotlib to plot the confusion matrix. Taken as a whole, this
program exemplifies the use of logistic regression in sports analytics,
demonstrating how to forecast match results and assess model efficacy with
synthetic data.
The results obtained from the logistic regression model applied to the
synthetic sports analytics dataset show promising performance with an
overall accuracy of 83%. The confusion matrix further illustrates the
model’s predictive capabilities, indicating that out of the 200 test samples,
75 were correctly classified as true negatives (indicating correct predictions
of negative outcomes) and 91 were correctly classified as true positives

--- Strana 79 ---
(correct predictions of positive outcomes). However, the model also made
some incorrect predictions, misclassifying 14 instances of negative
outcomes as positive (false positives) and 20 instances of positive outcomes
as negative (false negatives). The classification report provides additional
insights into the model’s performance by presenting precision, recall, and
F1-score metrics for each class. For class 0 (indicating negative outcomes),
the model achieved a precision of 0.79, recall of 0.84, and F1-score of 0.82.
For class 1 (indicating positive outcomes), the precision was higher at 0.87,
with a slightly lower recall of 0.82, resulting in an F1-score of 0.84. These
metrics collectively indicate that while the model demonstrates good
predictive accuracy, there may be room for improvement, particularly in
reducing false positive and false negative predictions to enhance overall
performance.
3.2 Decision Trees
For both classification and regression, decision trees are the go-to
supervised learning methods. The basic idea is that they construct a tree-like
structure with decision nodes and leaf nodes to simulate the way humans
make decisions. Based on the results of feature tests, each decision node
can have one or more child nodes. In contrast, the last call or forecast is
represented by the leaf nodes. Decision trees’ ease of use and
interpretability is a major plus. Even people without technical backgrounds
will have no trouble understanding decision trees due to their visual nature,
which provides a straightforward and natural depiction of the decision-
making process. This ability to be understood by others is very important in
fields like healthcare and finance where comprehending the logic behind
forecasts is paramount.
In addition to being able to process multi-output jobs and numerical and
categorical data, decision trees are extremely flexible. Datasets with

--- Strana 80 ---
intricate feature relationships are a good fit for them because of their ability
to automatically manage feature interactions and feature selection. Decision
trees also simplify modelling and minimize information loss by requiring
minimum data pre-processing, including scaling or normalization. Decision
trees are easy to understand and use, but they are vulnerable to overfitting
when trained on noisy data or high-dimensional datasets. Pruning, depth
limitation in trees, and ensemble methods like random forests or gradient
boosting machines are some of the approaches used to tackle this problem.
By avoiding the capture of noise or unimportant features in the data, these
strategies enhance decision trees’ generalization performance.
Classification and regression are only two of the many areas where
decision trees shine as strong, interpretable machine learning algorithms.
They are widely used because of their versatility, ease of interpretation, and
capacity to process both numerical and categorical data. It is critical to use
suitable regularization techniques and ensemble approaches to reduce the
risk of overfitting. In summary, decision trees are a helpful resource for
gaining insight and understanding from data in an approachable and clear
way.

--- Strana 81 ---
3.2.1 Plant Classification
Code 3.2:
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from sklearn.datasets import load_iris
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
from sklearn.tree import DecisionTreeClassifier, plot_tree
from 
sklearn.metrics 
import 
accuracy_score, 
classification_report, 
confusion_matrix
# Load the Iris dataset
iris = load_iris()
X = iris.data
y = iris.target
# Convert to a DataFrame for better understanding
data = pd.DataFrame(X, columns=iris.feature_names)
data[‘species’] = y
# Split the data into training and testing sets
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.2, ran-
dom_state=42)
# Initialize the Decision Tree Classifier
model = DecisionTreeClassifier(random_state=42)
# Train the model
model.fit(X_train, y_train)
# Make predictions on the test set
y_pred = model.predict(X_test)
accuracy = accuracy_score(y_test, y_pred)
print("Accuracy:", accuracy)
conf_matrix = confusion_matrix(y_test, y_pred)
print("\nConfusion Matrix:")
print(conf_matrix)
class_report = classification_report(y_test, y_pred)
print("\nClassification Report:")
print(class_report)
# Plot the decision tree
plt.figure(figsize=(20, 10))
plot_tree(model, feature_names=iris.feature_names, class_names =
iris.target_names, filled=True, fontsize=10, rounded=True)
plt.title(‘Decision Tree for Iris Species Classification’, fontsize=16,
fontweight=’bold’)
plt.show()
plt.figure(figsize=(8, 6))
plt.imshow(conf_matrix, cmap=plt.cm.Blues)
plt.title(‘Confusion Matrix’, fontsize=16, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.colorbar()
plt.xticks([0, 1, 2], iris.target_names, fontsize=12, fontweight =’bold’)
plt.yticks([0, 1, 2], iris.target_names, fontsize=12, fontweight =’bold’)
for i in range(conf_matrix.shape[0]):
for j in range(conf_matrix.shape[1]):
plt.text(j, i, str(conf_matrix[i, j]), ha=’center’, va=’center’, color=’white’,
fontsize=14, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.xlabel(‘Predicted Label’, fontsize=14, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.ylabel(‘True Label’, fontsize=14, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.show()

--- Strana 82 ---
The Python program shown in Code 3.2 employs a decision tree classifier
to classify iris species based on the Iris dataset. It first loads the dataset
using ‘load_iris’ from ‘sklearn.datasets’, then splits it into training and
testing sets using ‘train_test_split’ from ‘sklearn.model_selection’. After
initializing and training the decision tree classifier, the program makes
predictions on the test set and evaluates the model’s performance using
accuracy, confusion matrix, and classification report metrics. The decision
tree is visualized using ‘plot_tree’ from ‘sklearn.tree’, and the confusion
matrix is plotted with enhanced formatting for readability. This
comprehensive approach showcases the process of building, evaluating, and
visualizing a decision tree model for iris species classification. Accuracy:
1.0. The confusion matrix is shown in Figure 3.1.The provided confusion
matrix and classification report offer insights into the performance of a
classification model, particularly in the context of multi-class classification
tasks. In the confusion matrix, each row represents the actual classes, while
each column represents the predicted classes. The diagonal elements
represent the instances where the predicted class matches the actual class,
indicating correct predictions. For instance, in the given confusion matrix,
the model correctly predicted 10 instances of class 0, 9 instances of class 1,
and 11 instances of class 2. The classification report further provides
metrics such as precision, recall, and F1-score for each class, as well as the
overall accuracy of the model. Precision measures the proportion of
correctly predicted instances among all instances predicted as belonging to
a particular class, while recall measures the proportion of correctly
predicted instances among all instances that truly belong to a class. F1-
score is the harmonic mean of precision and recall, offering a balanced
measure of a model’s performance. In this case, the model achieves perfect

--- Strana 83 ---
precision, recall, and F1-score for all classes, indicating its high accuracy in
classifying iris species.
Figure 3.1 Confusion matrix.
3.3 Random Forest
As a member of the ensemble learning family, random forest is both a
strong and flexible machine learning method. Its high accuracy, resilience,
and capacity to manage big datasets with high dimensionality make it a
popular choice for regression and classification problems.
Random forest is based on the idea of ensemble learning, which is
integrating several models to get better predictions. When random forest is
trained, it generates a large number of decision trees. To build each tree, we
use a bootstrapped sample of the training data and a randomly selected
subset of the features. This unpredictability enhances the model’s
generalizability by injecting variation into the individual trees, which in
turn prevents overfitting.

--- Strana 84 ---
Decision trees, a type of hierarchical structure made up of branches and
nodes, are fundamental to random forest. The feature attributes are
represented by nodes, and decisions are represented by branches. Typically,
a stopping requirement based on purity metrics like entropy or Gini
impurity is reached throughout the process of building a decision tree,
which entails recursively subdividing the feature space into smaller and
smaller subgroups. Overfitting is a problem with decision trees, but random
forest solves it by combining the predictions of different trees.
Random forest uses a method known as bootstrap aggregating, or
bagging, to distribute the training data into varied groups. Bagging is a
method of creating numerous equal-sized subsets from the training dataset
by randomly selecting it with replacement. The random forest’s decision
trees are trained on distinct subsets of the data, creating a collection of trees
that have seen diverse data variants. Random forest outperforms individual
trees in terms of robustness and accuracy by averaging or voting on the
predictions made by these trees.
Random forest calculates the value of each feature in predicting the target
variable, a metric known as feature value. This data is extracted from the
mean reduction in impurity (or some other metric) throughout the entire
forest when a certain feature is utilized for splitting. The predictive capacity
of the model is enhanced by features with higher significance values,
whereas those with lower values are considered less significant. Feature
selection, dimensionality reduction, and understanding the underlying data
linkages can all be aided by random forest’s feature importance analysis.
Random forest has a lot of benefits, like being able to handle big datasets
with a lot of dimensions, being resilient to overfitting, and being robust to
noisy data. Classification, regression, anomaly detection, and feature
selection are just a few of the many applications it has in many different

--- Strana 85 ---
fields, including healthcare, marketing, ecology, and finance. Random
forest is a great option for people new to machine learning as well as
seasoned pros due to its ease of implementation and tuning.
Using bootstrapped samples of the training data and random subsets of
features, random forest builds several decision trees as an ensemble
learning approach. It reduces the risk of overfitting and generates reliable
results by integrating the forecasts of these trees. A popular choice for many
machine learning projects, random forest is straightforward to use,
adaptable, and extensively relevant across diverse domains.
Tuning the hyper parameters can further improve the performance of
random forest, which is already easy to deploy and hyper parameter robust.
Important hyper parameters include forest tree count, tree maximum depth,
feature count, minimum sample size, and number of features to use when
node splitting. To optimize these hyper parameters, which strike a balance
between model complexity and generalization performance, one might use
grid search or randomized search cross-validation approaches.
Estimating out-of-bag errors: A distinctive aspect of random forest is
the estimation of out-of-bag (OOB) errors. There are data points that are not
included in each iteration (out-of-bag samples) since every decision tree in
the forest is trained on a bootstrapped sample. You can estimate the model’s
generalization error using these out-of-bag data instead of using a separate
validation set. A helpful statistic for evaluating and comparing models is the
sum of the tree forecasts for the out-of-bag samples, which allows one to
calculate an approximation of the model’s performance.
Considerations and limitations: Although random forest is an effective
algorithm, it might not be the ideal fit for every issue. Optimal random
forest performance may not be achievable with very high dimensional or
strongly correlated feature datasets. Also, unlike more straightforward

--- Strana 86 ---
models like logistic regression, the ensemble of decision trees could be
difficult to understand, so it might not be the best choice for problems that
require a clear and understandable model. In addition, when contrasted with
more sophisticated methods such as deep learning models or gradient
boosting machines, random forest could struggle to grasp the non-linear
correlations within the data.
The future of random forest is bright, since it has undergone several
revisions and additions to better handle various problems and enhance its
overall performance. Some examples of these modifications include random
forest regression trees (RFRT) for dealing with continuous target variables
and 
extremely 
randomized 
trees 
(ExtraTrees) 
for 
adding 
extra
randomization to tree construction. In addition, there has been a rise in the
popularity of ensemble methods that combine random forest with other
algorithms, such as gradient boosting machines (GBM). This highlights the
possibility of future innovations and hybridization in ensemble learning
techniques.

--- Strana 87 ---
3.3.1 Traffic prediction
Code 3.3
import numpy as np
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
from sklearn.ensemble import RandomForestRegressor
from sklearn.metrics import mean_squared_error, r2_score
import matplotlib.font_manager as fm
# Define font properties
bold_font = fm.FontProperties(weight=’bold’, size=12)
# Generate synthetic data for traffic flow prediction
np.random.seed(0)
n_samples = 1000
time_of_day = np.random.uniform(0, 24, n_samples) # Time of day in hours
day_of_week = np.random.randint(0, 7, n_samples) # Day of the week (0:
Monday, 6: Sunday)
weather_condition = np.random.randint(0, 3, n_samples) # Weather condition
(0: Sunny, 1: Cloudy, 2: Rainy)
traffic_volume = 1000 + 50 * time_of_day + 100 * day_of_week +
np.random.normal(0, 200, n_samples)
# Create a DataFrame for the synthetic data
data = pd.DataFrame({
‘Time_of_Day’: time_of_day,
‘Day_of_Week’: day_of_week,
‘Weather_Condition’: weather_condition,
‘Traffic_Volume’: traffic_volume
})
# Split data into features (X) and target variable (y)
X = data[[‘Time_of_Day’, ‘Day_of_Week’, ‘Weather_Condition’]]
y = data[‘Traffic_Volume’]
# Split data into training and testing sets
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.2, ran-
dom_state=42) # Create and train the Random Forest Regression model
random_forest 
= 
RandomForestRegressor(n_estimators=100, 
ran-dom_state=42) 
random_forest.fit(X_train, y_train)
# Make predictions on the test set
y_pred = random_forest.predict(X_test)
# Evaluate the model
mse = mean_squared_error(y_test, y_pred)
r2 = r2_score(y_test, y_pred)
print("Mean Squared Error:", mse)
print("R-squared:", r2)
# Plot predicted vs. actual traffic volume
plt.figure(figsize=(10, 6))
plt.scatter(y_test, y_pred)
plt.plot([y_test.min(), y_test.max()], [y_test.min(), y_test.max()], ‘–’,
color=’red’)
plt.title(‘Predicted vs. Actual Traffic Volume’, fontproperties=bold_font)
plt.xlabel(‘Actual Traffic Volume’, fontproperties=bold_font)
plt.ylabel(‘Predicted Traffic Volume’, fontproperties=bold_font)
plt.xticks(fontproperties=bold_font)
plt.yticks(fontproperties=bold_font)
plt.grid(True)
plt.show()

--- Strana 88 ---
The Python program shown in Code 3.3 utilizes random forest regression to
predict traffic flow based on synthetic data. Initially, synthetic data is
generated to mimic real-world traffic patterns, incorporating features like
time of day, day of the week, and weather conditions, along with
corresponding traffic volume data. Following this, the dataset is structured
into feature variables (such as time of day and weather conditions) and the
target variable, traffic volume. The data is then split into training and testing
sets 
using 
a 
standard 
approach 
of 
‘train_test_split’ 
from
‘sklearn.model_selection’, ensuring model validation. Subsequently, a
random forest regression model is instantiated and trained on the training
data using ‘RandomForestRegressor’ from ‘sklearn.ensemble’. Predictions
are made on the test set using the trained model, and its performance is
evaluated using mean squared error (MSE) and R-squared (R2) score
metrics. Finally, the program visually represents the predicted versus actual
traffic volumes through a scatter plot, where the x-axis corresponds to
actual traffic volume, the y-axis represents predicted traffic volume, and
each data point symbolizes an instance from the test set. Moreover, the
program enhances the readability and emphasis of the visualizations by
setting all text elements, including title, labels, ticks, and grid, to bold font
properties.
The program’s evaluation metrics reveal the model’s performance on the
test data. The mean squared error (MSE) of approximately 47074.91
indicates the average squared difference between the predicted traffic
volumes and the actual values. A lower MSE suggests better model
accuracy, albeit the value here seems relatively high, implying some level
of variability or error in the predictions. Additionally, the R-squared (R2)
score of approximately 0.7037 indicates the proportion of variance in the
traffic volume that is explained by the model. This value ranges from 0 to 1,

--- Strana 89 ---
with higher values indicating better model fit to the data. Here, an R2 score
of around 0.70 suggests that the model explains approximately 70.37% of
the variance in the traffic volume, indicating a reasonably good fit to the
data. However, further analysis and potential model refinement may be
necessary to improve prediction accuracy and explain more variance in the
traffic flow data.
3.4 Support Vector Machine
Support vector machine (SVM) is a robust and versatile supervised machine
learning algorithm widely used for classification tasks, regression, and
outlier detection. It operates by finding the optimal hyperplane that best
separates different classes within the feature space. This hyperplane is
positioned to maximize the margin, which refers to the distance between the
hyperplane and the nearest data points from each class, known as support
vectors. By maximizing the margin, SVM aims to achieve better
generalization and robustness to new data, making it suitable for a variety
of real-world applications across different domains.
In situations where the data is not linearly separable, SVM utilizes a
kernel trick to map the input features into a higher-dimensional space where
they may become separable. This allows SVM to learn complex, non-linear
decision boundaries that might not be achievable in the original feature
space. Commonly used kernel functions include linear, polynomial, radial
basis function (RBF), and sigmoid kernels. The choice of kernel function
significantly impacts the performance of the SVM model and should be
carefully selected based on the characteristics of the data and the problem at
hand.
One of the key components of SVM is the cost function, which penalizes
misclassifications and adjusts the position of the hyperplane to maximize
the margin. The regularization parameter (C) controls the trade-off between

--- Strana 90 ---
maximizing the margin and minimizing classification errors. By tuning the
regularization parameter, users can adjust the flexibility of the SVM model,
balancing between achieving a wider margin and allowing for more
misclassifications, or vice versa, depending on the specific requirements of
the problem.
Support vectors, or the data points closest to the decision boundary, play
a crucial role in determining the position and orientation of the hyperplane.
These support vectors are critical for defining the decision boundary and are
the primary focus of the SVM algorithm. Additionally, SVM tends to
generalize well to new data due to its ability to maximize the margin and
separate classes effectively. However, selecting the appropriate kernel and
tuning hyper parameters such as the regularization parameter is essential to
prevent overfitting and ensure optimal model performance.
SVM is a powerful and effective algorithm known for its versatility,
robustness, and ability to handle complex decision boundaries in high-
dimensional spaces. It is widely used across various domains, including but
not limited to, image classification, text categorization, bioinformatics, and
finance. While SVM offers many advantages, such as its ability to handle
non-linear relationships and robustness to outliers, it may face scalability
issues with large datasets. Therefore, careful consideration of kernel
selection and hyper parameter tuning is crucial for achieving optimal
performance in SVM models.

--- Strana 91 ---
3.4.1 House price prediction
Code 3.4
# Importing necessary libraries
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from sklearn.datasets import make_regression
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
from sklearn.preprocessing import StandardScaler
from sklearn.svm import SVR
from sklearn.metrics import mean_squared_error, r2_score
# Generating sample house price dataset
X, 
y 
= 
make_regression(n_samples=1000, 
n_features=3, 
noise=0.1, 
ran-
dom_state=42)
# Splitting data into training and testing sets
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.2, ran-
dom_state=42) # Feature scaling
scaler = StandardScaler()
X_train_scaled = scaler.fit_transform(X_train)
X_test_scaled = scaler.transform(X_test)
# Creating and training the SVR model
svr = SVR(kernel=’linear’)
svr.fit(X_train_scaled, y_train)
# Making predictions
y_pred = svr.predict(X_test_scaled)
# Evaluating the model
mse = mean_squared_error(y_test, y_pred)
r2 = r2_score(y_test, y_pred)
print("\033[1mMean Squared Error:\033[0m", mse)
print("\033[1mR-squared:\033[0m", r2)
# Plotting the regression plot
plt.figure(figsize=(10, 6))
plt.scatter(y_test, y_pred, color=’blue’)
plt.plot([y_test.min(), y_test.max()], [y_test.min(), y_test.max()], ‘k–’, lw=2)
plt.xlabel(r’$\bf{Actual\ House\ Prices}$’, fontsize=12)
plt.ylabel(r’$\bf{Predicted\ House\ Prices}$’, fontsize=12)
plt.title(r’$\bf{House\ 
Price\ 
Prediction:\ 
Actual\ 
vs\ 
Predicted}$’, 
fontsize=14)
plt.xticks(fontsize=10, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.yticks(fontsize=10, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.show()
The Python program shown in Code 3.4 utilizes support vector regression
(SVR) to predict house prices using a synthetic dataset. Initially, a synthetic
dataset simulating house prices is generated with 1000 samples and three
features, including a noise level of 0.1. The dataset is then split into training
and testing sets using the ‘train_test_split’ function. Feature scaling is
applied to standardize the features using ‘StandardScaler’ to ensure

--- Strana 92 ---
consistent scales across features. An SVR model with a linear kernel is
instantiated and trained on the scaled training data. Subsequently,
predictions are made on the scaled testing data using the trained SVR
model. Model performance is evaluated using mean squared error (MSE)
and R-squared (R2) metrics, providing insights into the model’s accuracy.
Finally, a regression plot is generated to visualize the relationship between
actual and predicted house prices, with bold font settings applied to axis
labels, ticks, and text numbers for enhanced readability and emphasis on
key information.
The program’s evaluation metrics reveal the exceptional performance of
the SVR model on the test data. The mean squared error (MSE) of
approximately 0.011 indicates an extremely low average squared difference
between the predicted house prices and the actual values. Such a low MSE
suggests high precision and accuracy of the model’s predictions.
Additionally, the R-squared (R2) score of approximately 0.999999 reflects
an almost perfect fit of the model to the data, with the model explaining
nearly 100% of the variance in the house prices. This exceptionally high R2
score signifies an excellent level of correlation between the predicted and
actual house prices, showcasing the robustness and effectiveness of the
SVR model in accurately predicting house prices based on the given
features.
3.5 Gradient Boosting Machines
An advanced ensemble learning method, gradient boosting machines
(GBMs), are well-known for their remarkable predictive abilities in
classification and regression jobs. Their operation is based on the sequential
combination of numerous ineffective prediction models, usually decision
trees, into a strong and precise ensemble model. The idea of boosting, in
which succeeding models in an ensemble work to fix the mistakes of their

--- Strana 93 ---
predecessors, is central to GBMs. In GBM training, each weak learner is
constructed to handle the ensemble’s residual errors; this process unfolds
iteratively. The data is fitted to the first model initially, and then, one by
one, other models are added to the ensemble, with each addition improving
the predictions of the ones before it. To improve the model’s performance,
GBMs use an iterative strategy that gradually decreases the overall error.
Using gradient descent to minimize a given loss function is an essential part
of GBM’s optimization method. In order to minimize prediction errors, the
model parameters are updated according to the gradient of the loss function.
With the help of gradient descent, GBMs are able to successfully traverse
the high-dimensional parameter space, which allows them to unravel
intricate data patterns and relationships. The capacity of GBMs to manage
various data distributions and formats is one of their main features. Whether
it’s numerical, category, or textual data, GBMs are able to accurately predict
outcomes by capturing complex patterns. In addition, they can withstand
data noise and outliers, which makes them ideal for real-world datasets that
could have anomalies. No matter how well they work, GBMs still have
their share of problems. When the model is very complicated or the training
dataset is too small, overfitting becomes a major risk. Regularization
strategies and careful hyperparameter tuning during model training are
common ways practitioners reduce this risk. Furthermore, effective
implementation solutions are required to guarantee scalability due to the
significant computational complexity of GBMs, particularly for big
datasets. Nevertheless, these obstacles aside, gradient-boosting machines
are still highly regarded as an essential component of contemporary
machine learning due to their adaptability, precision, and capacity to handle
various predicted jobs.

--- Strana 94 ---
3.5.1 Genomics
Code 3.5
import numpy as np
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from sklearn.datasets import make classification
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
from sklearn.ensemble import GradientBoostingClassifier
from sklearn.metrics import classification_report, confusion_matrix,
roc_curve, auc
# Generate synthetic genomics dataset
X, y = make classification(n_samples=1000, n_features=20, n_informative=10,
n_redundant=5, n_clusters_per_class=2, random_state=42)
# Split the data into training and test sets
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.3, ran-
dom_state=42) # Create and train the Gradient Boosting Classifier
gbc = GradientBoostingClassifier(n_estimators=100, learning_rate=0.1,
max_depth=3, random_state=42)
gbc.fit(X_train, y_train)
# Predict the test set results
y_pred = gbc.predict(X_test)
y_pred_proba = gbc.predict_proba(X_test)[:, 1]
# Evaluate the model
print("Confusion Matrix:")
print(confusion_matrix(y_test, y_pred))
print("\nClassification Report:")
print(classification_report(y_test, y_pred))
# Plotting the ROC curve
fpr, tpr, _ = roc_curve(y_test, y_pred_proba)
roc_auc = auc(fpr, tpr)
plt.figure(figsize=(10, 6))
plt.plot(fpr, tpr, color=’darkorange’, lw=2, label=’ROC curve (area = %0.2f)’ %
roc_auc)
plt.plot([0, 1], [0, 1], color=’navy’, lw=2, linestyle=’–’)
plt.xlim([0.0, 1.0])
plt.ylim([0.0, 1.05])
plt.xlabel(‘False Positive Rate’, fontsize=14, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.ylabel(‘True Positive Rate’, fontsize=14, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.title(‘Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) Curve’, fontsize=16,
fontweight=’bold’)
plt.legend(loc="lower right")
plt.grid(True)
plt.show()
The Python program shown in Code 3.5 generates a synthetic genomics
dataset for modeling purposes. It begins by importing necessary libraries
such as NumPy for numerical operations, pandas for data manipulation, and
make classification from Scikit-learn datasets to create synthetic datasets.
To ensure reproducibility, a random seed is set using np.random.seed (42).

--- Strana 95 ---
Then, the number of samples (n_samples) and features (n_features),
representing genetic variants, is defined. The make classification function is
used to generate the synthetic dataset, specifying parameters such as the
number of informative and redundant features, the number of classes
(binary classification in this case), and the random state for reproducibility.
The generated data is converted into a pandas DataFrame with column
names representing genetic variants (SNP_i). A target column indicating the
presence or absence of a trait or disease is added to the DataFrame. Finally,
the first few rows of the synthetic genomics dataset are displayed to inspect
the generated data. This program serves as a demonstration of generating
synthetic genomic data, which can be used for various modeling and
analysis tasks in genomics research. The variuation of these prediction as
shown in Figure 3.2.
Figure 3.2 Operating characteristics curve.
The code snippet provided evaluates the performance of a binary
classification model through the analysis of a confusion matrix and a

--- Strana 96 ---
classification report. The confusion matrix provides a concise summary of
the model’s predictions, breaking them down into true positives, true
negatives, false positives, and false negatives. In this instance, the matrix
reveals that out of 160 instances of class 0, 141 are correctly predicted,
while 19 are incorrectly classified as class 1. Similarly, for class 1, out of
140 instances, 131 are accurately predicted, while 9 are misclassified as
class 0. This information helps in understanding the model’s ability to
discriminate between the two classes and identify areas where it may be
making errors.
Furthermore, the classification report offers detailed insights into the
model’s performance, presenting precision, recall, and F1-score for each
class. Precision denotes the proportion of true positive predictions among
all positive predictions, while recall indicates the proportion of true
positives correctly identified by the model out of all actual positives. The
F1-score, a harmonic mean of precision and recall, provides a balanced
measure of a model’s performance. In this case, the classification report
demonstrates that the model achieves high precision and recall for both
classes, with slight variations between the two. Overall, the report aids in
assessing the model’s performance comprehensively and identifying areas
for potential improvement, contributing to informed decision making in
classification tasks.
3.6 AdaBoost
One common ensemble learning approach for classification problems is
AdaBoost, which stands for adaptive boosting. A powerful classifier is
generated by repeatedly merging the forecasts of numerous weak learners.
Starting with a basic base learner like decision stumps, every weak learner
is trained on the whole dataset in the first stage. On their own, these
incompetent students fare somewhat better than random guessing. Each

--- Strana 97 ---
training instance is originally given the same weight by AdaBoost during
the training process. In the following training rounds, it gives greater weight
to the misclassified occurrences by training a new weak learner. In this
iterative process, the algorithm is trained on instances that are challenging
to categorize in order to improve over time by learning from its
errors.Following training, AdaBoost takes each weak learner’s accuracy
from the training set and gives it a weight according to that. When building
the final ensemble model, weaker learners are given more weight. To create
the final strong classifier, AdaBoost uses weighted majority voting to
integrate the predictions of all weak learners. Simplicity and ease of
implementation are two of AdaBoost’s main features. Its performance is
frequently comparable to other algorithms, requiring little to no adjustment.
In comparison to conventional decision trees, AdaBoost has a lower
overfitting risk, which makes it an attractive option for many different kinds
of categorization job.However, AdaBoost’s performance could take a hit if
the data is too noisy or contains too many outliers. In addition, training each
weak learner sequentially can make the process computationally expensive,
and it could not work well if the weak learners are overly complicated or if
the data has a significant class imbalance. Regardless of these drawbacks,
AdaBoost is still widely used for classification problems since it is simple
and effective. When compared to other SVM algorithms, AdaBoost stands
out due to its unique method of model construction and prediction. In
contrast to more conventional methods that use the whole dataset to
optimize a single model, AdaBoost uses an ensemble learning strategy.
With each weak learner concentrating on a separate part of the data, it
merges their predictions to form a powerful classifier.Also, AdaBoost
changes its training emphasis depending on the results of prior poor learners
since it is an adaptable algorithm. It gives more weight to cases that were

--- Strana 98 ---
misclassified, making it more likely that weak learners in the future will
focus on these cases. Alternatively, a lot of other algorithms just try to
optimize one model according to predetermined criteria and don’t change
their training process depending on past iterations. One further thing that
sets AdaBoost apart is its focus on simplicity. Decision stumps, which are
shallow decision trees with just one split, are examples of simple base
learners that are frequently used in this context. Because of its
computationally cheap and simple weak learners, AdaBoost is well-suited
to jobs that prioritize efficiency and interpretability. Due to its iterative
design and focus on misclassified instances, AdaBoost is also less likely to
overfit than other algorithms. A strong model that generalizes effectively to
new data is what AdaBoost achieves by persistently concentrating on the
hardest samples.In situations where there is a lot of noise or outliers,
AdaBoost might not be the best algorithm to use. In addition, dealing with
big datasets or complicated weak learners can make its sequential training
method computationally expensive. In addition, a large class imbalance in
the data or overly complex weak learners could hurt AdaBoost’s
performance.The data type, the existence of outliers or noise, and
computing limitations are a few of the variables that determine whether
AdaBoost is appropriate for a certain job, despite the fact that it provides
distinct benefits, including simplicity, adaptability, and resistance to
overfitting. In order to choose the best algorithm for a specific problem, it is
essential to weigh the benefits and drawbacks of each option.

--- Strana 99 ---
3.6.1 Bioinformatics data classification
Code 3.6
import numpy as np
from sklearn.ensemble import AdaBoostClassifier
from sklearn.datasets import make_classification
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
from sklearn.metrics import accuracy_score
# Generate synthetic dataset for bioinformatics application
X, y = make_classification(n_samples=1000, n_features=20, n_classes=2, ran-
dom_state=42) # Split the dataset into training and testing sets
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.2, ran-
dom_state=42) # Initialize AdaBoost classifier
adaboost_classifier = AdaBoostClassifier(n_estimators=50, random_state=42)
# Train the AdaBoost classifier
adaboost_classifier.fit(X_train, y_train)
# Make predictions on the testing data
predictions = adaboost_classifier.predict(X_test)
# Calculate the accuracy of the model
accuracy = accuracy_score(y_test, predictions)
print("Accuracy:", accuracy)
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import seaborn as sns
from sklearn.metrics import confusion_matrix
# Generate confusion matrix
conf_matrix = confusion_matrix(y_test, predictions)
# Plot confusion matrix
plt.figure(figsize=(8, 6))
sns.heatmap(conf_matrix, annot=True, cmap=’Blues’, fmt=’g’, cbar=False)
plt.xlabel(‘Predicted Label’)
plt.ylabel(‘True Label’)
plt.title(‘Confusion Matrix’)
plt.show()
The Python script shown in Code 3.6 showcases the application of the
AdaBoostClassifier algorithm, a popular ensemble learning technique, on a
synthetic dataset tailored for a bioinformatics application. Firstly, it
generates a synthetic dataset using the make classification function, creating
1000 samples with 20 features and 2 classes. The dataset is then split into
training and testing sets with an 80–20 ratio using train_test_split,
facilitating the model’s evaluation. An AdaBoost classifier is instantiated
with 50 estimators and trained on the training data to harness the power of
multiple weak learners. Subsequently, predictions are made on the testing
data, and the accuracy of the model is computed using accuracy_score,

--- Strana 100 ---
providing a quantitative measure of its performance. Finally, the confusion
matrix, a pivotal tool for assessing classification models, is generated using
confusion_matrix and visualized with a heatmap using seaborn and
matplotlib, offering a comprehensive overview of the model’s predictive
capabilities. Through this script, AdaBoost’s effectiveness in handling
binary classification tasks is demonstrated, along with the importance of
model evaluation through accuracy metrics and confusion matrices in
assessing its robustness and reliability.
3.7 Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost)
Extreme 
gradient 
boosting 
(XGBoost) 
stands 
as 
an 
advanced
implementation of gradient boosting machines, a potent machine learning
technique renowned for its effectiveness in classification and regression
tasks. At its core, XGBoost emphasizes optimization for speed and
efficiency, making it an optimal choice for handling large-scale datasets
efficiently. Through parallelization and cache-aware algorithms, XGBoost
accelerates both the training and prediction processes, ensuring high
performance even with massive datasets. This optimization contributes to
its popularity in machine learning competitions and real-world applications
where speed and scalability are paramount considerations.
Another key feature of XGBoost lies in its incorporation of regularization
techniques, such as L1 and L2 regularization, to mitigate overfitting and
enhance model generalization. By applying regularization on the leaf
weights of decision trees, XGBoost effectively balances model complexity,
thus preventing it from memorizing the training data and improving its
ability to generalize to unseen data. Additionally, XGBoost offers flexibility
through customizable objective functions and evaluation metrics, allowing
users to tailor the algorithm to specific problem domains and optimize
performance based on the desired criteria.

--- Strana 101 ---
XGBoost also boasts built-in capabilities to handle missing values in
datasets during both training and prediction phases, streamlining the
preprocessing pipeline and making it more robust to real-world data
challenges. Furthermore, its advanced techniques for tree pruning
contribute to preventing overfitting and improving model interpretability by
producing simpler and more interpretable decision trees. These features,
combined with XGBoost’s built-in cross-validation functionality and
insights into feature importance, empower users to develop robust models
with optimized hyper parameters and gain valuable insights into the
underlying data patterns.
Overall, extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost) stands as a versatile and
powerful machine learning algorithm renowned for its speed, efficiency,
and effectiveness in handling structured/tabular data. Its optimization for
speed, regularization techniques, flexibility, and built-in capabilities for
handling missing values and tree pruning make it a popular choice for a
wide range of machine learning tasks across various domains, solidifying its
reputation as a go-to algorithm for data scientists and machine learning
practitioners alike.

--- Strana 102 ---
3.7.1 Churn prediction
Code 3.7
import numpy as np
import pandas as pd
from sklearn.datasets import make classification
# Set the random seed for reproducibility
np.random.seed(42)
# Number of samples
n_samples = 10000
# Generate features using make classification for more realistic distributions
X, y = make classification(n_samples=n_samples, n_features=6,
n_informative=4,
n_redundant=2, n_clusters_per_class=2, flip_y=0.1, random_state=42)
# Convert the features to a DataFrame
df = pd.DataFrame(X, columns=[‘Age’, ‘Tenure’, ‘Balance’, ‘NumOfProducts’,
‘EstimatedSalary’, ‘Feature6’])
# Drop Feature6 since it’s a redundant feature
df.drop(‘Feature6’, axis=1, inplace=True)
# Add additional categorical features
df[‘CustomerID’] = np.arange(1, n_samples + 1)
df[‘Gender’] = np.random.choice([‘Male’, ‘Female’], size=n_samples)
df[‘HasCrCard’] = np.random.choice([0, 1], size=n_samples)
df[‘IsActiveMember’] = np.random.choice([0, 1], size=n_samples)
# Add the target variable
df[‘Churn’] = y
# Rearrange columns
df = df[[‘CustomerID’, ‘Gender’, ‘Age’, ‘Tenure’, ‘Balance’, ‘NumOfProducts’,
‘HasCrCard’, ‘IsActiveMember’, ‘EstimatedSalary’, ‘Churn’]]
# Ensure realistic values for Age, Tenure, Balance, and EstimatedSalary
df[‘Age’] = (df[‘Age’] -df[‘Age’].min()) / (df[‘Age’].max() - df[‘Age’].min()) * 
60
+ 18 # Age between 18 and 78
df[‘Tenure’] = (df[‘Tenure’] - df[‘Tenure’].min()) / (df[‘Tenure’].max() -
df[‘Tenure’].min()) * 10 # Tenure between 0 and 10 years
df[‘Balance’] = (df[‘Balance’] - df[‘Balance’].min()) / (df[‘Balance’].max() -
df[‘Balance’].min()) * 100000 # Balance between 0 and 100000
df[‘EstimatedSalary’] = (df[‘EstimatedSalary’] - df[‘EstimatedSalary’].min()) /
(df[‘EstimatedSalary’].max() - df[‘EstimatedSalary’].min()) * 150000 # Salary
between 0 and 150000
# Display the first few rows of the dataset
print(df.head())
# Save to CSV
df.to_csv(‘churn_prediction_dataset.csv’, index=False)
import pandas as pd
# Load the dataset
df = pd.read_csv(‘churn_prediction_dataset.csv’)
from sklearn.preprocessing import LabelEncoder
# Encode categorical variables
label_encoder = LabelEncoder()
df[‘Gender’] = label_encoder.fit_transform(df[‘Gender’])
# Define features and target
X = df.drop(columns=[‘CustomerID’, ‘Churn’])
y = df[‘Churn’]
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
# Split the data into training and testing sets
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.2, ran-
dom_state=42) !pip install xgboost

--- Strana 103 ---
import xgboost as xgb
from sklearn.metrics import accuracy_score, confusion_matrix, classifica-
tion_report # Create an XGBoost classifier
xgb_model = xgb.XGBClassifier(use_label_encoder=False,
eval_metric=’logloss’)
# Train the model
xgb_model.fit(X_train, y_train)
# Make predictions
y_pred = xgb_model.predict(X_test)
# Evaluate the model
accuracy = accuracy_score(y_test, y_pred)
conf_matrix = confusion_matrix(y_test, y_pred)
class_report = classification_report(y_test, y_pred)
print(f’Accuracy: {accuracy}’)
print(‘Confusion Matrix:’)
print(conf_matrix)
print(‘Classification Report:’)
print(class_report)
The program shown in Code 3.7 begins by importing necessary libraries
such as NumPy and pandas for data manipulation, LabelEncoder from
sklearn for encoding categorical variables, train_test_split for splitting the
data into training and testing sets, and xgboost for the XGBoost classifier. It
loads the dataset from a CSV file into a pandas DataFrame, encodes the
‘Gender’ categorical variable into numerical values using LabelEncoder,
and separates the features (X) from the target variable (y). The data is then
split into training and testing sets with an 80–20 ratio using train_test_split.
An XGBoost classifier is instantiated and trained on the training data
(X_train and y_train). After training, the model makes predictions on the
test data (X_test), and the accuracy, confusion matrix, and classification
report are computed to evaluate the model’s performance. The accuracy
score provides the overall correctness of the model, the confusion matrix
shows the true versus predicted classifications, and the classification report
details precision, recall, and F1-score for both classes (churn and no churn).
The model achieved an accuracy of 0.8955, indicating that it correctly
predicted approximately 89.55% of the cases. The confusion matrix shows
that out of 983 customers who did not churn, 893 were correctly identified,

--- Strana 104 ---
and 90 were incorrectly classified as churners, while out of 1017 customers
who churned, 898 were correctly identified, and 119 were incorrectly
classified as non-churners. The classification report reveals that the model
has a precision of 0.88 and a recall of 0.91 for predicting non-churners, and
a precision of 0.91 and a recall of 0.88 for predicting churners, resulting in
an overall F1-score of 0.90 for both classes. These metrics indicate that the
model performs well, balancing precision and recall effectively across both
churn and non-churn classes, with a high overall accuracy.

--- Strana 105 ---
CHAPTER 4
Unsupervised Machine Learning
Among the many machine learning approaches, "unsupervised learning
algorithms" allow models to acquire knowledge from unlabeled data sets in
the absence of human oversight. It is the job of unsupervised learning
algorithms to discover patterns, structures, or relationships within the data
without any labelled data (inputs coupled with matching outputs), in
contrast to supervised learning. Clustering, dimensionality reduction, and
density estimation are just a few examples of the many applications of these
methods, which also help to uncover and comprehend the fundamental
structure of data sets. The significance of unsupervised machine learning is
discussed below
These algorithms divide a dataset into smaller sets called clusters
according on how similar their individual data points are. The objective is
to form clusters of data points that are comparable to one another yet
different from other clusters. Hierarchical clustering, K-means clustering,
and DBSCAN (density-based spatial clustering of applications with noise)
are some of the most prevalent clustering algorithms.
Methods for reducing dimensionality: A dataset’s core structure and
attributes are preserved while the number of features (or dimensions) is
reduced using dimensionality reduction techniques. These methods are
commonly employed to enhance the performance of following machine
learning algorithms or to provide a visual representation of data with a high
dimensionality. Some popular methods for reducing dimensionality include
autoencoders, t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding (t-SNE), and
principal component analysis (PCA).

--- Strana 106 ---
Association rule learning: Algorithms for association rule learning find
intriguing correlations or linkages among variables in big datasets. When
doing market basket analysis, which seeks to discover patterns of frequently
purchased items, these algorithms are frequently employed. Association
rule learning has several famous examples, one of which is the Apriori
method.
Anomaly detection: Algorithms for detecting anomalies seek out data
patterns that don’t fit the norm. There may have been mistakes in data
collecting, suspicious conduct, or something else entirely if these outliers
persist. Methods based on density, grouping, and classification are some of
the techniques used for anomaly identification.
Generative models: In order to create new samples that are similar to
the original data, generative models learn the underlying probability
distribution of the data. Data augmentation, synthetic data production, and
data generation are just a few of the many common uses for these models.
Generic adversarial networks (GANs), hidden Markov models (HMMs),
and variational autoencoders (VAEs) are generative models.
Maps that can organize themselves: One method for visualizing and
reducing the dimensionality of high-dimensional data is the usage of self-
organizing maps, which are algorithms based on neural networks. SOMs
maintain the input space’s topology while organizing data points into a low-
dimensional grid. When trying to find hidden patterns or clusters in large
datasets, their visualization capabilities really shine.
Density estimation: Algorithms for density estimation try to guess the
distribution’s probability density function. Useful for jobs like data
visualization, 
outlier 
detection, 
and 
modelling 
complicated 
data
distributions, these methods give insights into the distribution of data

--- Strana 107 ---
points. When estimating densities, two popular methods are Gaussian
mixture models (GMMs) and kernel density estimation (KDE).
Unsupervised learning: Neural networks are finding more and more
applications in unsupervised learning as deep learning techniques continue
to progress. An example of a neural network architecture is an autoencoder,
which is designed to learn a compact representation of input data in an
unsupervised way by training it to reconstruct the data. Unsupervised
learning models that can generate fresh data samples based on neural
networks are quite common, and two examples are GANs and variational
autoencoders (VAEs).
Manifold learning algorithms try to mimic the underlying manifold or
surface on which the data lies in order to understand the low-dimensional
structure of high-dimensional data. Effective visualization, dimensionality
reduction, and understanding of complicated data distributions are made
possible by these methods, which aid in capturing the fundamental
geometry of the data. Some examples of manifold learning techniques are t-
distributed stochastic neighbor embedding (t-SNE), Isomap, and locally
linear embedding (LLE).
The tenth method is graph-based unsupervised learning, which uses the
graph structure to take advantage of the links and connections between data
points. In order to find groups, communities, or key nodes in the data, these
methods examine the graph’s topology. The graph-based unsupervised
learning methods include community detection algorithms, graph-based
anomaly detection, and spectral clustering.
Due to their capacity to identify insights from unlabeled data, simplify
exploratory data analysis, and uncover hidden patterns, unsupervised
learning algorithms are actively investigated and used in numerous
domains. Unsupervised learning techniques are becoming more important

--- Strana 108 ---
for data interpretation and pre-processing jobs as datasets become larger
and more complex.
4.1 Hierarchical Clustering
A strong unsupervised learning method, hierarchical clustering, groups data
points into nested clusters based on their similarity. Hierarchical clustering
provides a more detailed comprehension of the connections between
clusters at various degrees of granularity than partitioning approaches such
as K-means. It does this by organizing data points in a hierarchical or tree-
like structure. As a first step, hierarchical clustering treats each data point
independently. The technique continues by iteratively merging the nearest
clusters until either all data points are part of the same cluster or a
predetermined stopping requirement is addressed. A dendrogram, like a tree
diagram, is produced as a byproduct; it describes the merging process and
sheds light on the clustering structure.
The capacity to detect hierarchical connections in the data is a major
strength of hierarchical clustering. What this means is that you may look at
clusters at various granularities, from individual data points to bigger, more
generalized groupings, at each level of the dendrogram. Hierarchical
clustering is great for exploratory data analysis and datasets with an unclear
underlying structure because of its hierarchical organization. Agglomerative
and divisive methods are the two most common ways to cluster
hierarchically. Most often used is agglomerative hierarchical clustering,
which treats each data point independently at first before gradually merging
them into bigger clusters according to a similarity metric. Conversely,
dividing hierarchical clustering starts with all data points in one cluster and
repeats the process of splitting them into smaller clusters until every data
point is in its own cluster. Both methods, in spite of their distinctions, are

--- Strana 109 ---
flexible enough to accommodate different kinds of datasets and similarity
metrics, and they yield useful insights into the data’s structure.
In hierarchical clustering, dendrograms are useful for visualizing the
process of cluster merging or splitting as a tree-like structure. The vertical
axis of a dendrogram shows the degree of similarity or dissimilarity
between two clusters, with each node representing a cluster. With this visual
aid, analysts can intuitively understand the clustering results and select a
suitable granularity level for data splitting. Choosing a distance metric or
similarity measure to establish how close together data points or clusters are
is an important decision in hierarchical clustering. Cosine similarity,
Manhattan distance, and the Euclidean distance are only a few of the
common distance measurements. Factors unique to the data and clustering
challenge dictate the distance metric to be used. The clustering results are
also heavily influenced by the linking criteria, which specify the method for
calculating the distance between clusters when merging. Famous linkage
techniques include Ward’s approach, average linkage, single linkage, and
complete linkage.
Numerous fields find use for hierarchical clustering, such as the social
sciences, 
biology, 
bioinformatics, 
and 
marketing 
for 
consumer
segmentation. For example, hierarchical clustering finds sets of genes that
exhibit consistent expression patterns across experiments by analyzing gene
expression data. Hierarchical clustering is a powerful tool for customer
segmentation that helps organizations understand their customers better. By
identifying similarities and differences, they can create focused marketing
campaigns and provide personalized advice. When it comes to exploring
data, seeing patterns, and delving into complicated datasets, hierarchical
clustering is a go-to method.

--- Strana 110 ---
4.1.1 Gene expression data
Code 4.1:
import numpy as np
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from sklearn.datasets import make_blobs
from sklearn.cluster import AgglomerativeClustering
from sklearn.metrics import silhouette_score
from scipy.cluster.hierarchy import dendrogram, linkage
# Generate synthetic gene expression data
data, _ = make_blobs(n_samples=300, centers=4, random_state=42)
# Perform hierarchical clustering
n_clusters = 4#Number of clusters
agg_clustering = AgglomerativeClustering(n_clusters=n_clusters, linkage=’ward’)
agg_labels = agg_clustering.fit_predict(data)
# Calculate silhouette score
silhouette_avg = silhouette_score(data, agg_labels)
print(f"Silhouette Score: {silhouette_avg}")
# Plot dendrogram
plt.figure(figsize=(12, 6))
dendrogram(linkage(data, method=’ward’), truncate_mode=’level’, p=3)
plt.title(‘Hierarchical Clustering Dendrogram’, fontsize=16, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.xlabel(‘Sample Index’, fontsize=14, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.ylabel(‘Distance’, fontsize=14, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.xticks(fontsize=12, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.yticks(fontsize=12, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.show()
# Plot clustering results
plt.figure(figsize=(10, 6))
scatter = plt.scatter(data[:, 0], data[:, 1], c=agg_labels, cmap=’viridis’, 
s=50, alpha=0.5)
plt.title(‘Hierarchical Clustering’, fontsize=16, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.xlabel(‘Feature 1’, fontsize=14, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.ylabel(‘Feature 2’, fontsize=14, fontweight=’bold’)
cbar = plt.colorbar(scatter)
cbar.set_label(‘Cluster Label’, fontsize=14, fontweight=’bold’)
cbar.ax.yaxis.set_tick_params(labelsize=12)
plt.xticks(fontsize=12, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.yticks(fontsize=12, fontweight=’bold’) plt.show()
plt.show()
Hierarchical clustering on synthetic gene expression data is demonstrated in
the Python program shown in Code 4.1. First, it loads the libraries needed
to generate, cluster, evaluate, and display data. After that, we use the
‘make_blobs’ function to mimic data point clusters with defined centers and
create 
synthetic 
gene 
expression 
data. 
We 
use 
the
‘AgglomerativeClustering’ class to do hierarchical clustering, with four

--- Strana 111 ---
clusters and ‘ward’ as our linkage condition. The compactness and
separation of clusters can be better understood with the help of a silhouette
score, which is computed to assess the clustering quality. The dendrogram
visualization provides a visual depiction of the clustering structure,
showcasing the hierarchical clustering process and cluster merging. Lastly,
a scatter plot is used to display the clustering findings. The color of each
data point is based on its cluster label. In order to analyze gene expression
data and visualize clustering findings for additional analysis and
interpretation, this program shows how hierarchical clustering is applied.
The silhouette score quantifies the degree to which an item resembles its
own cluster in terms of both cohesiveness and separation. It can take on
values between −1 and 1, with closer values indicating better cluster
matching and lower values indicating worse cluster matching. Negative
numbers imply that the item may have been mistakenly allocated to the
incorrect cluster, while scores close to 0 show that the object is on or near
the decision boundary between two nearby clusters. The clustering process
yielded clearly defined clusters with respectable inter-cluster distance, as
shown by the silhouette score of around 0.792. That the gene expression
data was successfully clustered using the hierarchical clustering algorithm
and that these clusters are unique from one another is supported by the
results. The relation in between hierarchical clustering analysis and
hierarchical clustering formation are shown in Figures 4.1 and 4.2.

--- Strana 112 ---
Figure 4.1: Hierarchical clustering analysis.
Figure 4.2: Hierarchical clustering formation.
4.2 Principal Component Analysis
In order to reduce dimensionality and extract features, principal component
analysis (PCA) is a commonly used method in machine learning and data
analysis. It is effective because it reduces high-dimensional data to a lower-

--- Strana 113 ---
dimensional space while keeping the data’s variability intact. Principal
component analysis (PCA) does this by determining the most variable
directions (or components) in the data. A more succinct representation of
the data is possible thanks to the new orthogonal basis set that these primary
components create. Centering the data by subtracting the mean of each
feature is the first step in principal component analysis (PCA). This will
guarantee that the new set of coordinates is centered around the original.
Afterwards, PCA determines the centered data’s covariance matrix. The
correlation matrix measures the connections between various data features.
In principle component analysis (PCA), the eigenvectors and eigenvalues of
the covariance matrix are computed to identify the primary components.
The eigenvalues show how much variance is explained by each eigenvector,
and the eigenvectors show which way the data is most variable.
The principal component analysis (PCA) sorts the principal components
according to their eigenvalues; the first principal component, with the
highest eigenvalue, accounts for the greatest amount of data variation. The
variance is reduced by a decreasing proportion by each successive primary
component. Dimensionality reduction can be achieved by principal
component analysis (PCA) by picking only a subset of the top principal
components; this method preserves the majority of the critical data points.
Improving performance in downstream machine learning tasks and making
computation and visualization of high-dimensional data more efficient are
both possible outcomes of this dimensionality reduction.
Principal component analysis (PCA) has multiple applications beyond
dimensionality reduction, such as data visualization and exploratory
research. Principal component analysis (PCA) creates visual representations
that capture the data’s underlying structure by projecting high-dimensional
data onto a lower-dimensional space defined by the elements. Data clusters,

--- Strana 114 ---
patterns, and relationships can be better grasped with the aid of these
visualizations. In order to better understand the underlying structure of
complicated datasets with many features, principal component analysis
(PCA) is a great tool to employ.
Natural language processing, image processing, genetics, and finance are
just a few of the many areas where principal component analysis (PCA)
finds use. Image processing applications of principal component analysis
include denoising, picture compression, and face recognition. PCA is used
in genetics for analyzing gene expression data and finding genetic markers.
In the financial sector, principal component analysis (PCA) is used for
managing risk and optimizing portfolios. Document classification and text
mining are two areas where principal component analysis (PCA) is useful in
NLP. When applied to high-dimensional datasets, principal component
analysis (PCA) is a strong and flexible tool for reducing data
dimensionality, identifying useful features, and revealing latent patterns.

--- Strana 115 ---
4.2.1 Climate predictions
Code 4.2:
import numpy as np
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from sklearn.decomposition import PCA
from sklearn.preprocessing import StandardScaler
# Step 1: Generate Synthetic Data
np.random.seed(42)
num_samples = 1000
num_features = 12
# Generate data
data = np.random.rand(num_samples, num_features) * 100
# Define columns
columns = [
‘Industrial Emissions’, ‘Vehicle Emissions’, ‘Chemical Spills’, ‘Agricultural 
Runoff’,
‘Livestock Methane’, ‘Urban Waste’, ‘Construction Dust’, ‘Energy Produc-tion 
Emissions’,
‘Deforestation Impact’, ‘Landfill Emissions’, ‘Household Chemical Use’, ‘Mining 
Waste’
]
# Create DataFrame
df = pd.DataFrame(data, columns=columns)
# Step 2: Apply PCA
# Standardize the data
scaler = StandardScaler()
scaled_data = scaler.fit_transform(df)
#ApplyPCA
pca = PCA()
pca.fit(scaled_data)
# Get explained variance ratio
explained_variance = pca.explained_variance_ratio_
explained_variance_cumulative = np.cumsum(explained_variance)
# Transform data using PCA
transformed_data = pca.transform(scaled_data)
# Step 3: Monitor Industrial Pollution
# Function to visualize pollution levels
def visualize_pollution(data, pca_model, components=(0, 1), title=’Industrial
Pollution Monitoring’):
plt.figure(figsize=(10, 6))
plt.scatter(data[:, components[0]], data[:, components[1]], alpha=0.5, c=’red’)
plt.title(title, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.xlabel(f’Principal Component {components[0] + 1}’, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.ylabel(f’Principal Component {components[1] + 1}’, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.grid(True)
plt.xticks(fontweight=’bold’)
plt.yticks(fontweight=’bold’)
plt.show()
# Function to print explained variance
def print_explained_variance(pca_model):
explained_variance_df = pd.DataFrame({
‘Principal Component’: range(1, num_features + 1),
‘Explained Variance Ratio’: pca_model.explained_variance_ratio_
})
print(explained_variance_df)
# Monitor Industrial Emissions

--- Strana 116 ---
def monitor_industrial_emissions(data, pca_model):
# Focusing on the first two principal components for simplicity
visualize_pollution(data, 
pca_model, 
components=(0, 
1), 
title=’Industrial 
Emissions Monitoring’)
print_explained_variance(pca_model)
# Step 4: Execute Monitoring
monitor_industrial_emissions(transformed_data, pca)
# Additional Step: Continuous Monitoring Simulation
# Assuming new data arrives periodically
def simulate_continuous_monitoring(pca_model, scaler, interval=100):
for i in range(0, num_samples, interval):
new_data = np.random.rand(interval, num_features) * 100
scaled_new_data = scaler.transform(new_data)
transformed_new_data = pca_model.transform(scaled_new_data)
visualize_pollution(transformed_new_data, 
pca_model, 
components=(0, 
1), 
title=f’Industrial Emissions Monitoring (Sample {i} to {i+interval})’)
# Simulate continuous monitoring
simulate_continuous_monitoring(pca, scaler)
The code provided in Code 4.2 performs principal component analysis
(PCA) on a synthetic dataset representing various factors influencing
industrial pollution. Initially, synthetic data is generated, simulating
pollution levels across different categories such as industrial emissions,
vehicle emissions, chemical spills, and others. PCA is then applied after
standardizing the data, enabling the identification of principal components
that capture the most significant sources of pollution variance. The program
includes functions to visualize pollution levels based on the first two
principal components and print the explained variance ratio for each
component. Additionally, 
a 
continuous 
monitoring 
simulation 
is
implemented, generating new data periodically and updating the
visualization to simulate real-time monitoring of industrial emissions. This
approach facilitates the analysis and monitoring of industrial pollution
trends, aiding in the identification of key contributing factors and informing
pollution mitigation strategies.
The information provided in Table 4.1 outlines the results of principal
component analysis (PCA) applied to a dataset, presenting the explained
variance ratio for each principal component. Each principal component,

--- Strana 117 ---
denoted by its ordinal number, sequentially captures varying amounts of
variance in the original data. Principal component 1 accounts for
approximately 9.83% of the total variance, followed by principal
component 2, which explains about 9.67% of the variance. Subsequent
components, such as principal component 3 and principal component 4,
contribute approximately 8.98% and 8.76% to the total variance,
respectively. This trend continues for each component, with the explained
variance ratio providing insights into the significance of each principal
component in retaining information from the original dataset. Typically,
analysts prioritize principal components with higher explained variance
ratios as they contain more relevant information for subsequent analysis or
modeling tasks.
Table 4.1:
0
1
0.098269
1
2
0.096692
2
3
0.089756
3
4
0.087590
4
5
0.087356
5
6
0.085215
6
7
0.080508
7
8
0.079220
8
9
0.077885
9
10
0.074454
10
11
0.072592
11
12
0.070464
Principal component
Explained variance ratio

--- Strana 118 ---
4.3 Singular Value Decomposition
A basic matrix factorization technique, singular value decomposition (SVD)
has extensive application in many domains, including data analysis,
machine learning, signal processing, and linear algebra. At its core, SVD
decomposes a matrix into three constituent matrices, providing a low-rank
approximation of the original matrix. Given a matrix A, SVD decomposes it
into three matrices: U, Σ, and VT, where U represents the left singular
vectors, Σ is a diagonal matrix containing the singular values, and VT
denotes the right singular vectors. These matrices capture essential
information about the structure and properties of the original matrix.
Dimensionality reduction is a major use case for support vector density.
It is possible to decrease the dimensionality of high-dimensional data using
SVD by keeping only the most important singular values and their
accompanying 
singular 
vectors. 
The 
feature 
extraction, 
picture
compression, and collaborative filtering tasks are where SVD really shines
because of this trait. One application of SVD is in collaborative filtering,
where it is used to factorize user-item interaction matrices. This allows for
more efficient recommendation systems by revealing latent features that are
underlying user preferences and item qualities.
In addition, SVD is essential for inverting matrices, computing pseudo-
inverses, and solving systems of linear equations. Using the diagonal matrix
sigma that is derived from SVD, one can manipulate and analyze singular
values, which in turn reveal information about the original matrix’s rank
and condition number. When it comes to image processing, SVD is useful
for denoising, compressing, and reconstructing images. In order to make
storage, transmission, and manipulation of image data more efficient, SVD
breaks down an image matrix into its individual components. This allows
for a variety of image processing tasks to be performed more easily.

--- Strana 119 ---
In addition, SVD is useful in NLP, which is the area of natural language
processing. A few applications of SVD in natural language processing
include semantic analysis, topic modelling, and text analysis. Document
clustering, sentiment analysis, and word similarity estimates are some of the
tasks made possible by SVD’s ability to decompose term-document
matrices or word embeddings, which in turn reveal latent semantic
structures inside textual data. Singular value decomposition (SVD) is a
general-purpose matrix factorization method that has many uses in many
different fields, including data science, machine learning, signal processing,
and linear algebra. Dimensionality reduction, matrix approximation, image
processing, collaborative filtering, and natural language processing are just
a few of the many applications that benefit from its capacity to extract
relevant data while lowering dimensionality.
4.3.1 Signal denoising
The program for signal denoising is given in Code 4.3. The SNR, or signal-
to-noise ratio, is 3.11 dB. When comparing the strength of the original
signal to that of the noise, the resulting ratio is the signal-to-noise ratio. A
greater signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) means that the denoised signal has a
higher signal-to-noise ratio, which means that the denoising process was
successful. It stands for root mean square error: This results in an RMSE of
0.4940. The RMS error quantifies the typical discordance between the
denoised and original signals. The degree to which the denoised and
original signals are in good agreement is indicated by the RMSE value. A
lower value shows that the denoised signal closely matches the original
signal. This picture provides a visual representation of the denoising
process, which aims to restore the original signal’s structure by decreasing
the impact of noise. To evaluate the efficacy of the denoising method, it

--- Strana 120 ---
gives a transparent comparison of the original, noisy, and denoised signal.
The comparative analysis in between the signal as shown in Figure 4.3.
Figure 4.3: Denoising signal using SVD.

--- Strana 121 ---
Code 4.3:
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
# Generate a noisy signal
np.random.seed(0)
t = np.linspace(0, 5, 1000)
signal = np.sin(2 * np.pi * t) # Original signal
noise = 0.5 * np.random.randn(1000) # Gaussian noise
noisy_signal = signal + noise # Noisy signal
# Apply Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) for denoising
U, s, Vt = np.linalg.svd(noisy_signal.reshape(-1, 1), full_matrices=False) # 
Perform SVD
rank = 10 # Number of singular values to keep
denoised_signal = (U[:, :rank] @ np.diag(s[:rank])) @ Vt[:rank, :] # Reconstruct 
denoised signal
# Compute evaluation metrics
SNR 
= 
10 
* 
np.log10(np.mean(signal 
** 
2) 
/ 
np.mean((signal 
- 
denoised_signal.flatten()) 
** 
2)) 
RMSE 
= 
np.sqrt(np.mean((signal 
- 
denoised_signal.flatten()) ** 2))
RMSE = np.sqrt(np.mean((signal - denoised_signal.flatten()) ** 2))
# Plot original signal, noisy signal, and denoised signal
plt.figure(figsize=(10, 6))
plt.plot(t, signal, label=’Original Signal’, color=’blue’)
plt.plot(t, noisy_signal.flatten(), label=’Noisy Signal’, linestyle=’–’,
color=’red’, alpha=0.7)
plt.plot(t, denoised_signal.flatten(), label=’Denoised Signal’, linestyle=’-’,
color=’green’)
plt.title(‘Signal Denoising using Singular Value Decomposition (SVD)’,
fontweight=’bold’)
plt.xlabel(‘Time’, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.ylabel(‘Amplitude’, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.legend()
plt.grid(True) plt.show()
plt.show()
# Print evaluation metrics
print(f’Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR): {SNR:.2f} dB’) print(f’Root Mean Square 
Error (RMSE): {RMSE:.4f}’)
print(f’Root Mean Square Error (RMSE): {RMSE:.4f}’)
4.4 Robot Navigation
Robot navigation, a critical aspect of robotics, involves the process of
enabling a robot to move through its environment effectively and
efficiently. This encompasses a range of tasks such as path planning,
obstacle avoidance, and environmental mapping. Unsupervised machine
learning plays a significant role in enhancing these capabilities by allowing
robots to understand and interpret their surroundings without pre-labeled
data. By leveraging data from various sensors, such as cameras, LiDAR,

--- Strana 122 ---
and ultrasonic sensors, robots can autonomously learn to navigate complex
and dynamic environments.
One of the primary applications of unsupervised learning in robot
navigation is in environmental mapping and segmentation. Robots equipped
with sensors gather raw data from their surroundings, which unsupervised
learning algorithms can then process to identify and cluster different
segments of the environment. For instance, these algorithms can distinguish
between different types of terrain, identify obstacles, and categorize
navigable spaces. This segmentation is crucial for creating detailed maps of
the environment, which are essential for effective path planning and
navigation.
Clustering techniques, a common approach in unsupervised learning,
help robots to make sense of the data collected from their sensors. By
grouping similar data points, robots can identify patterns and regularities in
the environment, such as recurring obstacles or common pathways. This
information enables the robot to predict and adapt to changes in its
environment more effectively. For example, a robot can learn to recognize
frequently traveled paths and use this knowledge to optimize its routes,
reducing travel time and increasing efficiency.
Furthermore, 
anomaly 
detection, 
another 
unsupervised 
learning
technique, is instrumental in ensuring safe navigation. By continuously
monitoring sensor data and identifying deviations from normal patterns,
robots can detect potential hazards or unusual obstacles that were not
present during initial mapping. This capability allows robots to respond to
dynamic changes in real-time, avoiding collisions and navigating safely
even in unpredictable environments. Overall, unsupervised machine
learning empowers robots with the ability to autonomously explore, learn,

--- Strana 123 ---
and adapt to their surroundings, significantly advancing the field of
autonomous navigation.

--- Strana 124 ---
Code 4.4:
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from sklearn.cluster import KMeans
from sklearn.ensemble import IsolationForest
from sklearn.metrics import silhouette_score, precision_score, recall_score,
f1_score
# Function to set plot style
def set_plot_style(ax):
# Set axis label font size and bold
ax.set_xlabel(‘X Coordinate’, fontsize=14, fontweight=’bold’)
ax.set_ylabel(‘Y Coordinate’, fontsize=14, fontweight=’bold’)
# Change axis color
ax.spines[‘bottom’].set_color(‘green’)
ax.spines[‘top’].set_color(‘green’)
ax.spines[‘right’].set_color(‘green’)
ax.spines[‘left’].set_color(‘green’)
# Set tick parameters
ax.tick_params(axis=’both’, which=’major’, labelsize=12, colors=’green’)
# Generate synthetic data
np.random.seed(42)
# Cluster 1: Navigable space
navigable_space = np.random.randn(100, 2) + [5, 5]
# Cluster 2: Obstacles
obstacles = np.random.randn(20, 2) + [2, 2]
# Combine data
data = np.vstack((navigable_space, obstacles))
# Plot the synthetic environment
fig, ax = plt.subplots()
ax.scatter(data[:, 0], data[:, 1], c=’blue’, label=’Data Points’)
ax.set_title(‘Synthetic Robot Navigation Environment’, fontsize=16,
fontweight=’bold’)
set_plot_style(ax)
ax.legend()
plt.show()
# Apply KMeans clustering
kmeans = KMeans(n_clusters=2, random_state=42)
kmeans_labels = kmeans.fit_predict(data)
# Evaluate clustering using Silhouette Score
silhouette_avg = silhouette_score(data, kmeans_labels) print(f’Silhouette Score 
for KMeans Clustering: {silhouette_avg:.2f}’)
print(f’Silhouette Score for KMeans Clustering: {silhouette_avg:.2f}’)
# Plot the clustering results
fig, ax = plt.subplots()
ax.scatter(data[:, 0], data[:, 1], c=kmeans_labels, cmap=’viridis’,
label=’Clustered Points’)
ax.set_title(‘KMeans Clustering of Environment’, fontsize=16,
fontweight=’bold’)
set_plot_style(ax)
plt.show()
# Apply Isolation Forest for anomaly detection (obstacle identification)
iso_forest = IsolationForest(contamination=0.2, random_state=42)
iso_forest.fit(data)
anomaly_labels = iso_forest.predict(data)
# Convert anomaly labels from (-1, 1) to (1, 0) for evaluation
anomaly_labels_binary = (anomaly_labels == -1).astype(int)
# True labels (assuming last 20 are obstacles)
true_labels = np.array([0]*100 + [1]*20)
# Evaluate anomaly detection

--- Strana 125 ---
precision = precision_score(true_labels, anomaly_labels_binary)
recall = recall_score(true_labels, anomaly_labels_binary)
f1 = f1_score(true_labels, anomaly_labels_binary)
print(f’Precision: {precision:.2f}’)
print(f’Recall: {recall:.2f}’)
print(f’F1-Score: {f1:.2f}’)
# Plot anomaly detection results
fig, ax = plt.subplots()
ax.scatter(data[:, 0], data[:, 1], c=anomaly_labels, cmap=’coolwarm’,
label=’Anomaly Detection’)
ax.set_title(‘Anomaly Detection (Obstacles Identification)’, fontsize=16,
fontweight=’bold’)
set_plot_style(ax)
plt.show()
The Python script provided in Code 4.4 generates synthetic data
representing a robot navigation environment, where ‘navigable_space’
points are clustered around [5, 5] and ‘obstacles’ around [2, 2]. It uses K-
means clustering to segment the environment and evaluates the clustering
using the silhouette score, which yields a moderate score of 0.59, indicating
reasonably well-defined clusters. The script then applies the isolation forest
algorithm to detect anomalies, labeling the last 20 points as true obstacles
and evaluating the detection using precision, recall, and F1-score metrics.
The results show a precision of 0.58, a recall of 0.70, and an F1-score of
0.64, reflecting a moderate performance in identifying obstacles. The script
also includes custom plotting functions to enhance the visualization, such as
setting bold axis labels, changing axis colors, and adjusting tick parameters,
which are applied to plots of the synthetic environment, clustering results,
and anomaly detection outcomes. Figure 4.4 shows distribution of root
navigation, the clustering formation is shown in Figure 4.5 and the obstacle
detection is shown in Figure 4.6.

--- Strana 126 ---
Figure 4.4: Distribution of robot navigation on the X–Y
coordinate.

--- Strana 127 ---
Figure 4.5: Navigation data set clustering.

--- Strana 128 ---
Figure 4.6: Obstacle detection.
The evaluation of the unsupervised learning techniques applied to the
synthetic robot navigation dataset reveals several insights. The K-means
clustering algorithm achieved a silhouette score of 0.59, indicating that the
clusters are moderately well defined, with a reasonable separation between
navigable spaces and obstacles. This score suggests that while the clustering
captures some structure in the data, there is room for improvement, possibly
due to the overlap between the two clusters. For anomaly detection, the
isolation forest algorithm achieved a precision of 0.58, meaning that 58% of
the detected anomalies were actual obstacles. The recall was 0.70,
indicating that 70% of the actual obstacles were correctly identified. The
F1-score, which balances precision and recall, was 0.64, reflecting a
moderate overall performance in detecting obstacles. These results
demonstrate that while the unsupervised learning techniques provide a

--- Strana 129 ---
useful starting point for robot navigation and obstacle detection, further
refinement and optimization could enhance their accuracy and reliability.
4.5 Network Security
Anomaly detection plays a crucial role in ensuring the security and integrity
of computer networks by identifying unusual or suspicious activities that
may indicate potential security threats. In network security, anomaly
detection techniques leverage unsupervised machine learning algorithms to
analyze vast amounts of network traffic data in real-time. These algorithms
are trained to learn the normal behavior of the network by identifying
patterns and trends in network traffic, without the need for labeled examples
of attacks. Once the normal behavior is established, the algorithms can
detect deviations from this baseline, which may indicate anomalous
activities such as malicious intrusions, unauthorized access attempts, or
unusual data transfers.
One common approach to anomaly detection in network security is
through the use of clustering algorithms such as K-means or DBSCAN.
These algorithms group network traffic data points into clusters based on
similarity, allowing anomalies to stand out as data points that do not belong
to any cluster or belong to small, sparse clusters. Another approach involves
the use of autoencoder neural networks, which are trained to reconstruct
normal network traffic data. During inference, if the reconstruction error for
a particular data point is high, it indicates that the data point deviates
significantly from normal patterns, thus flagging it as a potential anomaly.
The significance of anomaly detection in network security lies in its
ability to proactively identify and mitigate security threats before they can
cause significant harm. By continuously monitoring network traffic and
identifying anomalies in real-time, organizations can detect and respond to
security incidents promptly, thereby minimizing the impact of cyber attacks,

--- Strana 130 ---
data breaches, and other malicious activities. Anomaly detection
complements traditional security measures such as firewalls and intrusion
detection systems, providing an additional layer of defense to safeguard
sensitive information and critical assets within the network infrastructure.

--- Strana 131 ---
Code 4.5:
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np
from sklearn.cluster import KMeans
from sklearn.preprocessing import StandardScaler
from sklearn.metrics import silhouette_score
# Generate some sample network traffic data (replace this with your actual data)
# Assume each row represents a data point (e.g., network flow features)
data = np.random.rand(1000, 5) # 1000 data points, 5 features
# Standardize the data
scaler = StandardScaler()
scaled_data = scaler.fit_transform(data)
# Determine optimal number of clusters using silhouette score
silhouette_scores = []
for n_clusters in range(2, 11):
kmeans = KMeans(n_clusters=n_clusters, random_state=42)
cluster_labels = kmeans.fit_predict(scaled_data)
silhouette_avg = silhouette_score(scaled_data, cluster_labels)
silhouette_scores.append(silhouette_avg) 
optimal_n_clusters 
= 
silhouette_scores.index(max(silhouette_scores)) + 2
optimal_n_clusters = silhouette_scores.index(max(silhouette_scores)) + 2
# Perform k-means clustering with optimal number of clusters
kmeans = KMeans(n_clusters=optimal_n_clusters, random_state=42)
cluster_labels = kmeans.fit_predict(scaled_data)
# Identify anomalies (outliers)
cluster_centers = kmeans.cluster_centers_
distances 
= 
np.linalg.norm(scaled_data 
- 
cluster_centers[cluster_labels], 
axis=1)
threshold = np.percentile(distances, 95) # Adjust the percentile threshold as
needed
anomalies_indices = np.where(distances > threshold)[0]
anomalies = data[anomalies_indices]
print("Anomalies:")
print(anomalies)
# Plot silhouette scores
num_clusters = range(2, 11)
plt.plot(num_clusters, silhouette_scores, marker=’o’)
#Add title and labels with bold fonts
plt.title(‘Silhouette Score for Different Number of Clusters’,
fontweight=’bold’)
plt.xlabel(‘Number of Clusters’, fontweight=’bold’)
plt.ylabel(‘Silhouette Score’, fontweight=’bold’)
# Make ticks and labels bold
plt.xticks(fontweight=’bold’)
plt.yticks(fontweight=’bold’)
# Show the plot
plt.grid(True)
plt.show()
The code provided in Code 4.5 utilizes unsupervised machine learning
techniques, specifically K-means clustering, for anomaly detection in
network traffic data. It begins by generating synthetic network traffic data,

--- Strana 132 ---
assuming each row represents a data point with five features. This data is
then standardized using StandardScaler to ensure each feature has a mean of
0 and a variance of 1.
Next, the code determines the optimal number of clusters for K-means
clustering using the silhouette score, which measures the compactness and
separation between clusters. The silhouette score is calculated for different
numbers of clusters ranging from 2 to 10, and the number of clusters with
the highest silhouette score is chosen as the optimal number of clusters.
After determining the optimal number of clusters, K-means clustering is
performed on the standardized data with this number of clusters. The cluster
labels are then used to identify anomalies in the data. Anomalies are
detected as data points that have distances from their cluster centers
exceeding a certain threshold, which is set to the 95th percentile of
distances.
Finally, the code plots the silhouette scores against the number of clusters
to visualize the quality of clustering for different cluster numbers as shown
in Figure 4.7. The plot includes bold font for the title, x-axis label, y-axis
label, and tick labels, enhancing readability and emphasis on key
information. This visualization aids in understanding the relationship
between the number of clusters and the quality of clustering, assisting in the
selection of the optimal number of clusters for anomaly detection in
network traffic data.

--- Strana 133 ---
Figure 4.7: Silhouette score for difference number of clusters
The list of anomalies provided represents instances of abnormal behavior
detected within the network traffic data. Each anomaly, denoted by a row,
encompasses a combination of feature values that deviate significantly from
the expected patterns observed in normal network traffic. These anomalies
exhibit variability, outlying behavior, and unusual patterns across different
features, suggesting potential security threats or irregularities within the
network. Analyzing these anomalies provides valuable insights for
enhancing network security measures and mitigating potential risks.
Security analysts can delve deeper into investigating these anomalies to
determine their underlying causes and take appropriate measures to address
security vulnerabilities and potential breaches effectively, thereby
safeguarding the integrity and security of the network infrastructure.

--- Strana 134 ---
CHAPTER 5
Natural Language Processing
5.1 Overview of NLP
Natural language processing (NLP) is a subfield of artificial intelligence
(AI) that focuses on enabling computers to understand, interpret, and
generate human language in a way that is both meaningful and useful. The
scope of NLP encompasses a wide range of tasks and applications,
including but not limited to speech recognition, language translation,
sentiment analysis, text summarization, and question answering. NLP
techniques and algorithms allow computers to process and analyze
unstructured text data, extract valuable insights, and perform tasks that
traditionally require human-level language understanding.
The roots of NLP can be traced back to the 1950s when researchers
began exploring ways to enable computers to understand and process
natural language. One of the earliest milestones in NLP was the
development of the Georgetown-IBM Experiment in 1954, which
demonstrated the feasibility of machine translation. In the following
decades, researchers made significant progress in areas such as speech
recognition, information retrieval, and syntactic analysis. The 1980s and
1990s witnessed the rise of statistical approaches to NLP, fueled by
advancements in machine learning and computational linguistics. The
advent of the internet and the explosion of digital text data in the 21st
century further accelerated the development of NLP, leading to
breakthroughs in areas such as deep learning, neural language models, and
large-scalelanguage understanding.

--- Strana 135 ---
In recent years,NLP has seen unprecedented growth and innovation,
driven by advancements in deep learning, neural networks, and large-scale
language models. Models such as BERT (bidirectional encoder
representations from transformers) and GPT (generative pre-trained
transformer) have achieved remarkable performance across a wide range of
NLP tasks, pushing the boundaries of what is possible in language
understanding and generation. Looking ahead, the future of NLP holds
immense promise, with continued research and development expected to
unlock new capabilities and applications in areas such as conversational AI,
multimodal understanding, and human–machine collaboration. However,
challenges such as bias and fairness, privacy concerns, and ethical
considerations remain important considerations as NLP technologies
continue to evolve and shape our interactions with machines and each other.
5.2 Fundamental Concepts of NLP
Text preprocessing techniques are essential steps in natural language
processing (NLP) to prepare textual data for further analysis. Tokenization
involves breaking down the text into smaller units called tokens, which can
be words, phrases, or symbols. Stemming and lemmatization are techniques
used to reduce words to their root or base form to normalize the text.
Stemming simply chops off prefixes or suffixes to get to the root, while
lemmatization considers the meaning of the word and transforms it to its
canonical form. These techniques help in standardizing the text and
reducing its dimensionality, making it easier for NLP algorithms to process
and analyze.
N-grams are contiguous sequences of N items (words, characters, or
symbols) extracted from a text. In NLP, N-grams are commonly used to
capture the sequential nature of language and provide context for predictive
modeling tasks. Language modeling involves building statistical or neural

--- Strana 136 ---
network-based models that learn the probability distribution of sequences of
words in a language. N-gram language models estimate the likelihood of a
word given its context (preceding N-1 words), which is useful for tasks
such as text generation, speech recognition, and machine translation.
Syntax and grammar play a crucial role in understanding the structure
and meaning of natural language text. In NLP, syntactic analysis involves
parsing the text to identify the grammatical structure and relationships
between words in a sentence. This includes tasks such as part-of-speech
tagging, dependency parsing, and syntactic parsing. Understanding the
syntax and grammar of a language is essential for tasks like information
extraction, text generation, and machine translation, as it provides valuable
insights into how words are organized and combined to convey meaning.
Text representation techniques are used to convert textual data into
numerical formats that can be processed by machine learning algorithms.
The bagof-words (BoW) model represents text as a vector of word counts,
ignoring the order and structure of the words. TF-IDF (term frequency-
inverse document frequency) is a weighting scheme that assigns weights to
words based on their frequency in the document and across the entire
corpus, helping to identify important and discriminative terms. Word
embeddings are dense vector representations of words in a continuous
vector space, which capture semantic and syntactic similarities between
words.Models 
such 
as 
Word2Vec,GloVe, 
and
FastTextlearndistributedrepresentationsofwordsbyconsideringtheircontext in
a large corpus of text data, enabling better performance in NLP tasks such
as sentiment analysis, machine translation, and document classification.
5.3 NLP Applications and Use Cases
Information retrieval (IR) using natural language processing (NLP)
involves the process of retrieving relevant information from a large corpus

--- Strana 137 ---
of text data based on user queries or information needs. This process is
essential for various applications such as search engines, document retrieval
systems, and personalized recommendation systems. Here’s how IR using
NLP works:
The first step in IR using NLP is to index the text data to make it
searchable. This involves creating an inverted index, which maps terms
(words or phrases) to the documents in which they occur. NLP techniques
such as tokenization, stemming, and lemmatization are applied to
preprocess the text data and generate a list of terms for indexing. The index
allows for efficient retrieval of documents containing specific terms or
combinations of terms.
When a user submits a query, NLP techniques are used to understand the
user’s intent and extract relevant keywords or concepts from the query. This
may involve techniques such as part-of-speech tagging, named entity
recognition, and syntactic analysis to parse the query and identify important
terms or entities. Additionally, techniques like query expansion may be
employed to broaden the scope of the search by including synonyms or
related terms.
Once the query has been processed and understood, the next step is to
retrieve relevant documents from the indexed corpus. This is done by
matching the terms in the query to the terms in the index and retrieving
documents that contain those terms. NLP techniques such as term weighting
(e.g., TF-IDF) may be used to assign relevance scores to the retrieved
documents based on the frequency and importance of the query terms
within each document.
In many IR systems, retrieved documents are ranked based on their
relevance to the query. NLP techniques may be used to compute relevance
scores for each document, taking into account factors such as term

--- Strana 138 ---
frequency, inverse document frequency, document length, and query term
proximity. Machine learning algorithms may also be employed to learn
ranking models from relevance judgments provided by human assessors,
allowing for more accurate and personalized document ranking.
Finally, the retrieved documents are presented to the user in a ranked list,
typically with summaries or snippets of text to provide context. NLP
techniques may be used to generate these summaries by extracting key
sentences or passages from the documents.Additionally, user feedback and
interaction data may be collected to further personalize and refine the
search results over time.
5.4 Chatbots and Virtual Assistants
Designing chatbots requires a strong focus on the user experience. A
usercentric approach ensures that the chatbot is intuitive, easy to use, and
capable of fulfilling the user’s needs effectively. This involves
understanding the target audience, their preferences, and their pain points. A
well-designed chatbot should have a clear and friendly interface, provide
quick responses, and be accessible on the platforms most used by its target
audience. User feedback is crucial during the design phase to iteratively
improve the chatbot’s functionality and usability.
Defining the purpose and scope of the chatbot is essential for its success.
A chatbot should have a specific set of tasks it excels at, rather than trying
to handle everything inadequately.For instance, a customer service chatbot
should be able to assist with common inquiries, order tracking, and basic
troubleshooting. Setting clear boundaries helps manage user expectations
and allows the chatbot to perform its designated functions efficiently.
Additionally, providing users with clear instructions and options at the
beginning of the interaction helps guide them through the chatbot’s
capabilities.

--- Strana 139 ---
Rule-based dialog management involves using predefined rules and
scripts to manage the conversation flow between the user and the chatbot.
This approach is straightforward and effective for handling simple and
predictable interactions.Rule-based systems rely on decision trees or
flowcharts where each user input triggers a specific response or action.
While this method is easy to implement and control, it can be limited in
flexibility and scalability. It works best for scenarios where the range of
user inputs is limited and well-defined, such as FAQs or booking systems.
AI-driven dialog management leverages machine learning and natural
language processing to handle more complex and dynamic conversations.
This approach allows chatbots to understand context, manage multi-turn
dialogs, and provide more personalized responses. Techniques like intent
recognition, entity extraction, and reinforcement learning enable the chatbot
to learn from interactions and improve over time. AI-driven dialog
management can handle a broader range of inputs and adapt to various
conversation styles, making it suitable for more sophisticated applications
like virtual assistants and customer support bots.
Integrating chatbots with voice assistants like Amazon Alexa, Google
Assistant, or Apple Siri involves several key considerations.First, the
chatbot must be able to process and understand spoken language, which
requires robust speech recognition capabilities.Additionally, the responses
must be generated in a natural and conversational tone. Voice assistants
provide a hands-free, interactive experience, making them ideal for tasks
such as setting reminders, controlling smart home devices, or retrieving
information.Integration with voice assistants also means adhering to
platform-specific guidelines and leveraging their APIs for smooth operation
and user experience.

--- Strana 140 ---
Chatbots integrated with messaging platforms like Facebook Messenger,
WhatsApp, and Slack can reach users in their preferred communication
channels. These platforms provide a text-based interface that is familiar and
convenient for users. Integration involves using the APIs and SDKs
provided by these platforms to connect the chatbot with their messaging
infrastructure.This allows the chatbot to send and receive messages, handle
multimedia content, and interact with users in real-time. Messaging
platform integration is particularly effective for customer service,
marketing, and engagement applications, where quick and accessible
communication is crucial.
5.5 Clinical NLP Applications
Clinical NLP applications significantly enhance the efficiency and accuracy
of clinical documentation. Traditionally, healthcare providers spend a
substantial amount of time documenting patient interactions, treatments,
and outcomes. NLP can automate and streamline this process by converting
spoken or written clinical notes into structured data. Speech recognition
technologies coupled with NLP algorithms can transcribe doctor–patient
conversations in real-time, allowing physicians to focus more on patient
care rather than administrative tasks. Additionally, NLP can identify and
extract relevant information from unstructured text, ensuring that critical
data is accurately captured and recorded in electronic health records
(EHRs).
Managing and maintaining EHRs is another crucial area where NLP
makes a significant impact. EHRs contain vast amounts of patient data,
often in unstructured formats like clinical notes, lab results, and radiology
reports. NLP techniques can analyze and structure this data, making it
easier to search, retrieve, and interpret. For example, NLP can be used to
identify key medical terms, symptoms, diagnoses, and treatment plans from

--- Strana 141 ---
free-text clinical notes, thus improving the organization and accessibility of
patient records. Furthermore, NLP can facilitate interoperability between
different EHR systems by standardizing and harmonizing the data, leading
to better coordination of care across different healthcare providers.
NLP-powered tools can also enhance predictive analytics and decision
support in healthcare settings. By analyzing historical and real-time data
from clinical documentation and EHRs, NLP can identify patterns and
trends that might indicate the onset of diseases or complications. For
instance, NLP algorithms can flag potential adverse drug reactions by cross-
referencing patient symptoms with medication records. Similarly, predictive
models can forecast patient outcomes and suggest personalized treatment
plans based on the analysis of comprehensive patient data. These
capabilities help healthcare providers make informed decisions, improve
patient outcomes, and optimize resource allocation.
NLP plays a vital role in the annotation and interpretation of medical
images. While traditional image analysis focuses on visual patterns,
integrating NLP allows for the incorporation of textual information such as
radiology reports and patient histories. NLP algorithms can parse and
understand these reports, correlating the findings with the images. This
integrated approach helps in creating comprehensive annotations that
provide context to the visual data. For instance, NLP can highlight relevant
findings in a radiology report, such as the presence of a tumor, and link
them directly to the corresponding regions in the medical image, enhancing
the accuracy and speed of image interpretation.
By combining NLP with advanced imaging techniques, healthcare
providers can significantly improve diagnostic accuracy. NLP can assist in
identifying subtle signs and anomalies that might be overlooked during
manual reviews.For example, in radiology, NLP can analyze previous

--- Strana 142 ---
reports and current imaging results to identify patterns indicative of disease
progression or recurrence. Additionally,NLP can facilitate comparative
analysis by retrieving similar cases from medical databases, providing
radiologists with reference points that support more accurate diagnoses.
This reduces diagnostic errors and ensures that patients receive timely and
appropriate treatments.
NLP enhances workflow efficiency in medical imaging departments by
automating routine tasks and streamlining communication. For example,
NLP can automatically generate preliminary reports based on initial image
analysis, which radiologists can then review and finalize. This reduces the
time spent on documentation and allows radiologists to focus on more
complex cases. Furthermore,NLP can prioritize imaging studies based on
urgency by analyzing accompanying clinical notes and patient histories,
ensuring that critical cases receive prompt attention. Integrating NLP into
the imaging workflow not only boosts productivity but also enhances the
overall quality of care provided to patients.
NLP significantly accelerates the drug discovery process by enabling
researchers to efficiently mine vast amounts of biomedical literature and
clinical trial data. By analyzing scientific publications, patent databases,
and clinical trial records, NLP can identify potential drug targets,
understand mechanisms of action, and uncover previously unknown drug
interactions. NLP tools can extract relevant information about molecular
structures, pharmacokinetics, and therapeutic effects, facilitating the
identification of promising drug candidates. This automated literature
mining reduces the time and cost associated with the initial phases of drug
discovery, allowing researchers to focus on experimental validation and
development.

--- Strana 143 ---
During clinical trials, NLP helps in the analysis and interpretation of
large volumes of unstructured data generated from patient records, trial
reports, and adverse event logs. NLP techniques can systematically extract
and categorize information about patient responses, side effects, and
treatment outcomes.This enables researchers to monitor the progress of
clinical trials more effectively, identify trends and anomalies, and ensure
regulatory compliance. Additionally, NLP can assist in patient recruitment
by matching patient profiles with trial eligibility criteria, thus enhancing the
efficiency and success rates of clinical trials.
Pharmacovigilance involves monitoring the safety of drugs post-market
to identify and evaluate adverse drug reactions (ADRs). NLP is crucial in
this field as it can process and analyze large datasets from various sources
such as medical literature,EHRs, social media, and adverse event reporting
systems.By detecting and classifying reports of adverse reactions, NLP
helps in the early identification of potential safety issues. Moreover, NLP
can analyze trends and patterns in ADR data, providing insights into the risk
factors and mechanisms underlying adverse reactions. This proactive
approach to drug safety ensures that harmful effects are promptly identified
and mitigated, safeguarding public health.
5.6 Social Media Analytics
NLP plays a pivotal role in social media analytics by helping businesses
understand consumer sentiment. By analyzing the vast amounts of
unstructured data generated on platforms like Twitter, Facebook, and
Instagram, NLP algorithms can identify and quantify the emotions and
opinions expressed by users. Sentiment analysis, a key NLP application,
categorizes these sentiments as positive, negative, or neutral. This
information is invaluable for businesses seeking to gauge public opinion
about their products, services, or brand as a whole. It allows companies to

--- Strana 144 ---
quickly respond to positive trends or mitigate negative feedback, fostering
better customer relationships and enhancing brand perception.
Beyond sentiment analysis, NLP enables the extraction of deeper insights
and trends from social media conversations. Topic modeling techniques can
identify the main themes and subjects being discussed, while entity
recognition can pinpoint specific products, brands, or individuals
mentioned. This helps businesses stay abreast of emerging trends,
understand the factors driving consumer interest, and tailor their marketing
strategies accordingly. For instance, if a company notices a surge in
discussions about sustainability, it can adjust its messaging to highlight eco-
friendly practices and products. By leveraging NLP for social media
analytics, businesses can make data-driven decisions and maintain a
competitive edge in the market.
NLP significantly enhances the efficiency of processing customer
feedback, whether collected through surveys, reviews, or direct
communications. Traditional methods of feedback analysis are time-
consuming and labor-intensive, but NLP automates this process by
categorizing and summarizing vast amounts of textual data. Techniques
such as text classification and clustering can group feedback into
meaningful categories, such as product features, service quality, or pricing
concerns. This automated categorization helps businesses quickly identify
common issues and prioritize areas for improvement, ensuring that
customer concerns are addressed promptly and effectively.
Beyond categorization,NLP provides deeper insights by identifying
specific sentiments and key themes within customer feedback. Sentiment
analysis can determine the overall tone of the feedback, while more
advanced NLP techniques can extract nuanced opinions about particular
aspects of a product or service. For example, a company might discover that

--- Strana 145 ---
customers are generally satisfied with a product but consistently mention
issues with its durability. These insights enable businesses to make targeted
improvements and enhancements. Additionally, by tracking changes in
feedback over time, companies can assess the impact of their interventions
and continuously refine their offerings to better meet customer needs.
NLP empowers businesses to monitor their brand reputation in real-time
across various online channels. By continuously analyzing data from news
articles, blogs, forums, and social media, NLP tools can detect mentions of
the brand and assess the context in which it appears. This real-time
monitoring helps businesses stay informed about public perception and
quickly identify any potential crises or negative trends. For instance, if a
sudden spike in negative mentions is detected, a company can promptly
investigate and address the underlying issues before they escalate, thereby
protecting its reputation.
In addition to real-time monitoring, NLP aids in proactive reputation
management by providing comprehensive insights into brand perception
and stakeholder sentiment.Sentiment analysis can gauge the overall tone of
conversations about the brand, while entity recognition can identify key
influencers and detractors.This allows businesses to engage with their
audience more effectively, addressing concerns and amplifying positive
messages. Furthermore, NLP can help track the effectiveness of public
relations campaigns and marketing efforts by analyzing shifts in sentiment
and brand mentions over time. By leveraging these insights, companies can
strategically manage their reputation, build stronger relationships with their
audience, and foster long-term brand loyalty.
5.7 Recent Advancements in NLP Research
One of the most significant advancements in NLP research is the
development and widespread adoption of transformer-based models, such

--- Strana 146 ---
as BERT (bidirectional encoder representations from transformers) and
GPT 
(generative 
pre-trained 
transformer). 
These 
models 
have
revolutionized the field by achieving state-of-the-art results across a variety
of NLP tasks, including text classification, machine translation, and
question answering.Transformers leverage attention mechanisms to process
input data in parallel, leading to more efficient training and improved
performance. The concept of pre-training on large text corpora followed by
fine-tuning on specific tasks has become a standard practice, dramatically
enhancing the capabilities and versatility of NLP models.
Another noteworthy advancement is the progress in multilingual and
cross-lingual models. With the advent of models like mBERT and XLM-R
(cross-lingual language model),NLP systems can now understand and
process multiple languages with a single architecture. These models are
trained on diverse multilingual datasets, allowing them to capture language-
agnostic representations. This capability is particularly valuable for
applications requiring translation, cross-lingual information retrieval, and
sentiment analysis in non-English languages. The ability to leverage a
single model across different languages not only simplifies deployment but
also democratizes access to advanced NLP technologies globally.
NLP is increasingly being applied in the healthcare sector, leading to
transformative changes in how medical information is processed and
utilized. Applications include automated clinical documentation, where
NLP systems transcribe and structure doctors’ notes, and EHR management,
where patient records are organized and analyzed to extract relevant clinical
insights. Additionally, NLP aids in predictive analytics, identifying potential
health risks and suggesting preventive measures based on patient data.
These advancements help in reducing administrative burdens on healthcare

--- Strana 147 ---
providers, improving patient outcomes, and enabling more personalized and
efficient healthcare services.
In the finance and legal sectors, NLP is being leveraged to automate and
enhance various processes. For instance, in finance, NLP-driven systems
can analyze vast amounts of unstructured data, such as news articles,
earnings reports, and social media posts, to predict market trends and
inform trading strategies. In the legal industry, NLP applications include
contract analysis, where legal documents are reviewed and key information
is extracted, and legal research, where relevant case law and statutes are
identified more efficiently. These applications not only enhance accuracy
and efficiency but also enable professionals to focus on higher-value tasks,
such as strategic decision-making and client interactions.
One of the primary challenges facing NLP is ensuring data privacy and
addressing ethical concerns. As NLP systems often require large amounts of
data to function effectively, there is a risk of violating user privacy,
particularly when dealing with sensitive information.Additionally, biases
present in training data can lead to biased outcomes, which can perpetuate
stereotypes and result in unfair treatment of certain groups. Addressing
these challenges requires the development of robust data anonymization
techniques, bias detection and mitigation strategies, and adherence to
ethical guidelines and regulations to ensure that NLP applications are both
fair and secure.
While NLP models have become more powerful, understanding and
interpreting their decisions remains a significant challenge. Many advanced
models, especially deep learning-based ones, function as “black boxes,”
making it difficult to explain how they arrive at specific conclusions. This
lack of transparency can be problematic in critical applications, such as
healthcare and finance, where stakeholders need to trust and understand the

--- Strana 148 ---
model’s decisions. Advancements in explainable AI (XAI) seek to address
this by developing techniques that provide insights into model behavior,
enhance interpretability, and allow for better debugging and improvement
of NLP systems. This not only increases user trust but also broadens the
applicability of NLP in sensitive and regulated domains.
5.8 Application of NLP
5.8.1 Text pre-processing
NLP (natural language processing) is preferred for text preprocessing
because it understands language nuances, context, and variations, making it
robust, flexible, and scalable. It extracts meaningful features from text,
adapts to different domains and languages, and offers a range of techniques
for tasks like tokenization, stemming, and named entity recognition. This
makes NLP a powerful tool for various text analysis and machine learning
tasks.

--- Strana 149 ---
Code 5.1:
!pip install nltk spacy
python -m spacy download en_core_web_sm
import nltk
import spacy
from nltk.corpus import stopwords
from nltk.tokenize import word_tokenize
from nltk.stem import PorterStemmer,WordNetLemmatizer
# Download necessary NLTK data files
nltk.download(‘punkt’)
nltk.download(‘stopwords’)
nltk.download(‘wordnet’)
# Initialize spaCy model
nlp = spacy.load(‘en_core_web_sm’)
# Sample text
text = "Text pre-processing is an essential task in Natural Language Processing
(NLP). It helps to clean and prepare text data for further analysis."
# Tokenization using nltk
tokens = word_tokenize(text)
print("Tokens:", tokens)
# Lowercasing
tokens = [token.lower() for token in tokens]
print("Lowercased Tokens:", tokens)
# Stop word removal using nltk
stop_words = set(stopwords.words(‘english’))
tokens = [token for token in tokens if token not in stop_words]
print("Tokens after Stop Word Removal:", tokens)
# Stemming using nltk
stemmer = PorterStemmer()
stemmed_tokens = [stemmer.stem(token) for token in tokens]
print("Stemmed Tokens:", stemmed_tokens)
# Lemmatization using nltk
lemmatizer = WordNetLemmatizer()
lemmatized_tokens = [lemmatizer.lemmatize(token) for token in tokens]
print("Lemmatized Tokens (nltk):", lemmatized_tokens)
# Lemmatization using spaCy
doc = nlp(text.lower()) # Convert text to lowercase before processing
lemmatized_tokens_spacy = [token.lemma_ for token in doc if token.text not
in stop_words and token.is_alpha]
print("Lemmatized Tokens (spaCy):", lemmatized_tokens_spacy)
The Python program shown in Code 5.1 demonstrates essential text
preprocessing techniques in natural language processing (NLP) using the
natural language toolkit (NLTK) and spaCy libraries. It begins by importing
the necessary libraries and downloading required resources for NLTK, such
as tokenizers, stop words, and lemmatizers. The sample text is then
tokenized into individual words using ‘nltk.word_tokenize()’, and these
tokens are converted to lowercase to ensure uniformity.Next, common stop

--- Strana 150 ---
words (e.g., ‘and’, ‘the’) are removed to focus on meaningfulwords.The
program then applies stemming using the Porter stemmer to reduce words
to their root form, which can sometimes result in nondictionary words. For
a more accurate base form, lemmatization is performed using both NLTK’s
WordNet 
lemmatizer 
and 
spaCy, 
which 
provides 
contextaware
lemmatization. Throughout the process, intermediate results are printed,
illustrating the transformation of the text from raw input to a preprocessed
form ready for further analysis. This comprehensive approach ensures that
the text is clean, standardized, and more manageable for subsequent NLP
tasks such as sentiment analysis, text classification, or information
extraction.
5.8.2 Syntactic analysis
Syntactic analysis, a fundamental component of natural language
processing (NLP), holds significant importance for understanding the
intricate structure of sentences. By dissecting the grammatical framework,
syntactic analysis allows NLP systems to decipher the relationships
between words and phrases, facilitating accurate interpretation and semantic
understanding of text. This process aids in resolving the inherent ambiguity
present in natural language, providing insights into the intended meaning
based on syntactic clues.Moreover, syntactic analysis enables the detection
and correction of grammatical errors, enhancing the quality of automated
proofreading and grammar checking applications. Additionally, through
dependency parsing, which is a type of syntactic analysis, NLP systems can
identify the intricate dependencies between words, essential for tasks such
as information extraction and text summarization. Furthermore, in machine
translation systems, syntactic analysis ensures the preservation of
grammatical structures, contributing to the accuracy and fluency of
translated text. Thus, syntactic analysis serves as a cornerstone in NLP,

--- Strana 151 ---
empowering systems to comprehend and process human language
effectively.
Code 5.2:
pip install spacy nltk
python -m spacy download en_core_web_sm
import spacy
import nltk
from nltk import pos_tag
from nltk.tokenize import word_tokenize
from nltk.corpus import treebank
# Ensure NLTK resources are downloaded
nltk.download(‘averaged_perceptron_tagger’)
nltk.download(‘punkt’)
nltk.download(‘treebank’)
# Define the sentence for analysis
sentence = "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog."
# — spaCy Analysis —
print("spaCy Analysis")
# Load the English NLP model
nlp = spacy.load("en_core_web_sm")
# Process the sentence
doc = nlp(sentence)
# Print tokens and their syntactic dependencies
for token in doc:
print(f"{token.text} ({token.pos_}): {token.dep_} -> {token.head.text}")
# Visualize the dependency parse
spacy.displacy.serve(doc, style="dep")
# — NLTK Analysis —
print("\nNLTK Analysis")
# Tokenize the sentence
tokens = word_tokenize(sentence)
# Part-of-speech tagging
pos_tags = pos_tag(tokens)
print("POS Tags:", pos_tags)
# Parse a sentence using a pre-trained parser from the treebank corpus
t = treebank.parsed_sents(‘wsj_0001.mrg’)[0]
print("\nParse Tree:")
t.pretty_print()
The Python script shown in Code 5.2 performs syntactic analysis on a given
sentence using two popular NLP libraries: spaCy and NLTK. The script
begins by ensuring that the necessary libraries (spaCy and NLTK) and
resources (such as the spaCy English model and NLTK datasets) are
installed and downloaded. It then defines a sample sentence, ‘The quick
brown fox jumps over the lazy dog,’ for analysis. In the spaCy section, the

--- Strana 152 ---
script loads the English model and processes the sentence to create a ‘doc’
object. It iterates through each token in the ‘doc’, printing the token’ s text,
part-of-speech (POS) tag, syntactic dependency, and the head token it
depends on. Additionally, it uses spaCy’s ‘displaCy’ module to visualize the
syntactic dependencies in a web browser. In the NLTK section, the script
tokenizes the sentence into words and performs POS tagging using the
‘pos_tag’ function. It prints the POS tags for each token. The script then
retrieves and prints a parse tree from the Penn Treebank corpus using a pre-
trained parser, displaying the syntactic structure of a different sample
sentence from the treebank dataset in a readable format using the
‘pretty_print’ method. This combined approach showcases the capabilities
of both libraries in syntactic analysis and visualization.
The image displays two outputs from the NLTK section of the syntactic
analysis script. The first output is the part-of-speech (POS) tagging of the
sentence ‘The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.’ Each word in the
sentence is paired with its corresponding POS tag in a tuple. For example,
(‘The’, ‘DT’) indicates that ‘The’ is a determiner, (‘quick’, ‘JJ’) indicates
that ‘quick’ is an adjective, and (‘fox’, ‘NN’) indicates that ‘fox’ is a noun.
The complete POS tagging list is as follows: [(‘The’,‘DT’),(‘quick’,‘JJ’),
(‘brown’,‘NN’),(‘fox’,‘NN’), (‘jumps’, ‘VBZ’), (‘over’, ‘IN’), (‘the’,
‘DT’), (‘lazy’, ‘JJ’), (‘dog’, ‘NN’), (‘.’, ‘.’)].
The second output is a syntactic parse tree visualizing the grammatical
structure of a different sentence from the Penn Treebank corpus,
specifically: ‘Pierre Vinken, 61 years old, will join the board as a
nonexecutive director Nov. 29.’ This tree represents the hierarchical
relationships between words and phrases within the sentence. It starts with
the root sentence (S), which branches into various sub-phrases like noun
phrases (NP), verb phrases (VP), and adjective phrases (ADJP). Each word

--- Strana 153 ---
or phrase is connected through syntactic functions, such as subjects (NP-
SBJ), verb phrases (VP), prepositional phrases (PP-CLR), and noun phrases
with temporal modifiers (NP-TMP). This parse tree helps to understand the
sentence’s syntactic structure by displaying how different parts of the
sentence are grammatically linked.
5.8.3 Machine translation
Machine translation (MT) is the process of automatically translating text
from one language to another, and it’s a quintessential example of how
machine learning (ML) revolutionizes language processing. At its core, MT
employs sophisticated ML algorithms, particularly neural machine
translation (NMT) models, to learn the mappings between source and target
languages. These models utilize large-scale parallel corpora, where
corresponding sentences in different languages are aligned, to infer
translation patterns and relationships. Through training on such data, NMT
models can effectively capture complex linguistic phenomena, including
syntax, semantics, and context, enabling them to generate accurate and
fluent translations. Moreover, with advancements in deep learning and the
advent of transformer architectures like the transformer model, MT systems
have achieved unprecedented levels of performance, surpassing traditional
rule-based and statistical approaches.
One of the key advantages of ML-based MT is its adaptability and
scalability. Unlike rule-based systems that rely on handcrafted linguistic
rules, ML models can automatically learn from data and improve their
translation quality over time. Additionally, ML allows MT systems to
handle a wide range of language pairs and domains, making them versatile
and applicable in diverse scenarios. Furthermore, ML techniques enable
continuous refinement and optimization of MT models through techniques
like fine-tuning on domain-specific data or ensemble learning. As a result,

--- Strana 154 ---
ML-powered MT has become an indispensable tool for breaking down
language barriers, facilitating cross-cultural communication, and enabling
access to information across the globe.
Code 5.3:
from transformers import MarianMTModel, MarianTokenizer
# Load pre-trained model and tokenizer
model_name = "Helsinki-NLP/opus-mt-en-de"
tokenizer = MarianTokenizer.from_pretrained(model_name)
model = MarianMTModel.from_pretrained(model_name)
# Define input text in English
input_text = "Machine translation is a challenging task."
# Tokenize input text
input_ids = tokenizer(input_text, return_tensors="pt").input_ids
# Translate input text to German
translated_ids = model.generate(input_ids)
# Decode translated text
translated_text=tokenizer.decode(translated_ids[0],skip_special_tokens
=True)
# Print translated text
print("Translated text (German):", translated_text)
The Python program shown in Code 5.3 performs machine translation from
English to German using the transformers library. It first imports the
necessary components for Marian models, which are specifically designed
for machine translation tasks. Then, it loads a pre-trained English to
German translation model along with its corresponding tokenizer. The
program defines an English sentence you want to translate and converts it
into a format suitable for the model using the tokenizer. With everything
prepared, the model translates the English sentence and returns the
translated text in the form of tokens. Finally, the tokenizer decodes these
tokens back into human-readable German text, and the translated sentence
is printed.
5.8.4 Text classification
Text classification is a core application of natural language processing
(NLP) that involves categorizing text into predefined labels based on its

--- Strana 155 ---
content. This process uses algorithms such as naive Bayes, support vector
machines, or deep learning models like recurrent neural networks (RNNs)
and transformers to analyze and assign categories to text data. Text
classification is widely used in various applications, including spam
detection, sentiment analysis, topic labeling, document organization, and
language detection. By transforming unstructured text into structured data,
text classification enables efficient information retrieval, content filtering,
and automated decision-making in numerous fields such as customer
service, social media monitoring, and content management systems.

--- Strana 156 ---
Code 5.4:
import nltk
from sklearn.feature_extraction.text import TfidfVectorizer
from sklearn.naive_bayes import MultinomialNB
from sklearn.pipeline import make_pipeline
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split, cross_val_score
from sklearn.metrics import classification_report, accuracy_score
# Download NLTK data files (if not already installed)
nltk.download(‘punkt’)
# Expanded sample data
texts = [
"I love this movie, it’s amazing!", # Positive
"This film is terrible, I hate it.", # Negative
"What a great performance by the actors.", # Positive
"The plot was boring and predictable.", # Negative
"An excellent film, highly recommended.", # Positive
"Not worth the time, very disappointing.", # Negative
"The cinematography is beautiful.", # Positive
"The storyline was dull and uninteresting.", # Negative
"I enjoyed every moment of the film.", # Positive
"The acting was poor and unconvincing.", # Negative
"Absolutely fantastic! A must-watch.", # Positive
"One of the worst movies I’ve seen.", # Negative
]
labels = [
"positive",
"negative",
"positive",
"negative",
"positive",
"negative",
"positive",
"negative",
"positive",
"negative",
"positive",
"negative",
]
# Split data into training and testing sets
X_train, 
X_test, 
y_train, 
y_test 
= 
train_test_split(texts, 
labels, 
test_size=0.2,
random_state=42)
# Create a text classification pipeline with TfidfVectorizer and MultinomialNB
model = make_pipeline(TfidfVectorizer(), MultinomialNB())
# Train the model
model.fit(X_train, y_train)
# Predict the labels for the test set
predicted_labels = model.predict(X_test)
# Evaluate the model
print("Accuracy:", accuracy_score(y_test, predicted_labels))
print("Classification Report:")
print(classification_report(y_test, predicted_labels))
# Example of predicting new texts
new_texts = [
"I really enjoyed the storyline and the acting.",
"It was a waste of time, very bad movie.",
]
predicted_new_labels = model.predict(new_texts)
for text, label in zip(new_texts, predicted_new_labels):

--- Strana 157 ---
print(f"Text: {text}\nPredicted Label: {label}\n")
# Perform cross-validation to better evaluate the model
cross_val_scores = cross_val_score(model, texts, labels, cv=5)
print("Cross-validation scores:", cross_val_scores)
print("Mean cross-validation score:", cross_val_scores.mean())
The program shown in Code 5.4 demonstrates text classification using
natural language processing (NLP) in Python with an improved approach
for better accuracy and evaluation. It starts by importing necessary libraries
and downloading NLTK data if not already installed. An expanded dataset
of text samples, labeled as positive or negative, is created to provide a more
substantial basis for training the model. The data is then split into training
and testing sets using ‘train_test_split’. A machine learning pipeline is built
using ‘TfidfVectorizer’ for transforming text data into TF-IDF features and
‘MultinomialNB’ for classification. The model is trained on the training
data, and predictions are made on the test data. The performance of the
model is evaluated using accuracy and classification report metrics.
Additionally, the model’s predictions on new, unseen text samples are
demonstrated. To further validate the model’s performance, cross-validation
is performed, providing an average score over multiple folds to ensure
robustness and reliability of the classifier. This comprehensive approach
showcases the steps and considerations for building an effective text
classification model using NLP techniques.

--- Strana 158 ---
Code 5.5:
Accuracy: 0.3333333333333333
Classification Report:
precision recall f1-score support
negative 0.33 1.00 0.50 1
positive 0.00 0.00 0.00 2
accuracy 0.33 3
macro avg 0.17 0.50 0.25 3
weighted avg 0.11 0.33 0.17 3
Text: I really enjoyed the storyline and the acting.
Predicted Label: negative
Text: It was a waste of time, very bad movie.
Predicted Label: negative
Cross-validation scores: [0. 0.66666667 0.5 0.5 0. ]
The program in Code 5.5 attempts to classify text samples into positive or
negative sentiments using a naive Bayes classifier within a machine
learning pipeline that includes TF-IDF vectorization for feature extraction.
Despite the enhancements, the model’s performance is limited, achieving an
accuracy of 33.33% on the test set. The classification report indicates that
while the model perfectly identifies the negative class (precision and recall
of 1.00), it fails to correctly classify any positive instances (precision and
recall of 0.00), resulting in a low overall F1-score. The cross-validation
scores, which vary between 0.00 and 0.67 across different folds, highlight
the inconsistency and potential overfitting or data imbalance issues.
Predictions on new texts also demonstrate a bias towards the negative class,
indicating that the model may need a more balanced and extensive dataset,
along with possible parameter tuning or the use of more sophisticated
algorithms, to improve its classification performance.
5.8.5 Named entity recognition
Named entity recognition (NER) is a crucial natural language processing
(NLP) task that involves identifying and classifying proper nouns in text
into predefined categories such as names of people, organizations,

--- Strana 159 ---
locations, dates, and other entities. By transforming unstructured text into
structured data, NER enables the extraction of meaningful information,
which is essential for various applications like information retrieval,
question answering systems, and content recommendation. Advanced NER
systems utilize machine learning models, including conditional random
fields (CRFs), BiLSTM (bidirectional long short-term memory) networks,
and transformers, such as BERT (bidirectional encoder representations from
transformers), to achieve high accuracy in recognizing entities. These
models are trained on annotated corpora where entities are labeled, allowing
the models to learn contextual relationships and patterns. NER is widely
used in industries like healthcare for identifying medical terms, in finance
for extracting relevant financial information, and in social media
monitoring to identify mentions of brands and key topics. By enabling
precise extraction of entities, NER enhances data processing capabilities
and facilitates more informed decision-making across various domains.

--- Strana 160 ---
Code 5.6:
import nltk
from nltk.tokenize import word_tokenize
# Download necessary NLTK resources
nltk.download(‘punkt’)
nltk.download(‘maxent_ne_chunker’)
nltk.download(‘words’)
# Sample training data (labeled)
training_data = [
("Barack Obama was born in Hawaii and he served as the 44th President of
the United States.",
[("Barack Obama", "PERSON"), ("Hawaii", "LOCATION"), ("44th President",
"PERSON"), ("United States", "LOCATION")])
# Add more labeled data as needed
]
# Function to extract features from text
def extract_features(text):
return [word for word in word_tokenize(text)]
# Prepare training data in the required format
def prepare_data(data):
prepared_data = []
for sentence, entities in data:
tagged_sentence = nltk.pos_tag(word_tokenize(sentence))
prepared_data.append((extract_features(sentence), entities))
return prepared_data
# Prepare training data
prepared_training_data = prepare_data(training_data)
# Train the named entity chunker
chunker = nltk.ne_chunk(prepared_training_data[0][1])
Sample test data
test_sentence = "Barack Obama visited Paris last summer."
# Tag the test sentence
tagged_sentence = nltk.pos_tag(word_tokenize(test_sentence))
classified_entities = nltk.ne_chunk(tagged_sentence)
# Output tagged entities
print(classified_entities)
The program shown in Code 5.6 is designed to perform named entity
recognition (NER) using NLTK’s built-in named entity chunker. It starts by
importing the necessary libraries, including NLTK, and downloading
required NLTK resources such as tokenizers and named entity chunkers.
Next, a sample training dataset is defined, containing labeled sentences
where each entity is tagged with its corresponding entity type (e.g.,
PERSON, LOCATION). The program then prepares the training data by
tokenizing each sentence and tagging each word with its part-of-speech
(POS) using NLTK’s pos_tag() function. This prepared data is used to train

--- Strana 161 ---
the named entity chunker using NLTK’s ne_chunk() function, which
automatically identifies and tags named entities in the training data. Once
the chunker is trained, a sample test sentence is provided. The test sentence
is tokenized and tagged with POS using NLTK’s pos_tag() function, and
then the trained chunker is applied to this tagged sentence using
nltk.ne_chunk() to identify and tag named entities. Finally, the named
entities identified in the test sentence are printed as a tree structure, where
each subtree represents a named entity with its corresponding entity type.
This program demonstrates a straightforward approach to performing NER
using NLTK’s named entity chunker, leveraging labeled data for training
and tagging unseen text to identify named entities.
Code 5.7:
(PERSON Barack/NNP)
(PERSON Obama/NNP)
visited/VBD
(GPE Paris/NNP)
last/JJ
summer/NN ./.)
The output provided in Code 5.7 represents a tagged sentence where named
entities and their corresponding entity types are identified and labeled. Each
line in the output represents either a word or a part of a named entity,
accompanied by its part-of-speech (POS) tag if applicable. This format is
commonly used in natural language processing (NLP) tasks like named
entity recognition (NER) to analyze and annotate text data. In the output,
entities are enclosed within parentheses, indicating that they have been
recognized as named entities. For example, ‘(PERSON Barack/NNP)’
signifies that ‘Barack’ has been identified as a PERSON entity, with ‘NNP’
denoting its part-of-speech tag as a proper noun. Similarly, ‘(GPE
Paris/NNP)’ indicates that ‘Paris’ has been recognized as a geopolitical

--- Strana 162 ---
entity (GPE) and tagged as a proper noun. The other words in the sentence
are also included in the output, along with their respective POS tags. For
instance, ‘visited/VBD’ shows that ‘visited’ is a verb in past tense (VBD),
while ‘last/JJ’ indicates that ‘last’ is an adjective (JJ). Furthermore, regular
words like ‘summer/NN’ are labeled with their POS tags, where ‘NN’
signifies a singular or mass noun.
Lastly, punctuation marks such as periods are also included in the output,
with their respective symbols and tags. In the provided example, the period
‘.’ is tagged as a punctuation mark, and its occurrence marks the end of the
sentence, indicated by the closing parenthesis ‘)’. Overall, this tagged
output provides a structured representation of the sentence, highlighting the
identification of named entities and their classification, along with the POS
tagging of other words and punctuation marks, facilitating further analysis
and processing in NLP tasks.
5.8.6 Sentiment analysis
Sentiment analysis is a natural language processing (NLP) technique aimed
at extracting and categorizing subjective information from text data to
determine the sentiment conveyed, whether it’s positive, negative, or
neutral. It involves analyzing textual content such as customer reviews,
social media posts, or news articles to understand the underlying sentiment
expressed by the author. Sentiment analysis employs various machine
learning and deep learning algorithms, including supervised learning
methods like support vector machines (SVM), naive Bayes, and recurrent
neural networks (RNNs), as well as unsupervised learning techniques like
lexicon-based approaches and neural network models like transformers. The
process typically involves several steps such as text preprocessing
(tokenization, normalization), feature extraction (bag-of-words, word
embeddings), sentiment classification, and evaluation. Sentiment analysis

--- Strana 163 ---
finds extensive applications in various domains, including marketing
(customer feedback analysis, brand monitoring), finance (stock market
prediction, sentiment analysis of financial news), social media monitoring
(opinion mining, sentiment analysis of tweets), and customer service
(sentiment 
analysis 
of 
customer 
support 
interactions), 
enabling
organizations to gain valuable insights from textual data and make informed
decisions based on the sentiment expressed by users or customers.
However, sentiment analysis also faces challenges such as sarcasm
detection, context understanding, and handling of subjective language
nuances, which researchers continue to address through advancements in
NLP techniques and deep learning models to enhance the accuracy and
reliability of sentiment analysis systems.

--- Strana 164 ---
Code 5.8:
import nltk
from nltk.tokenize import word_tokenize
from nltk.corpus import stopwords
from nltk.stem import WordNetLemmatizer
from sklearn.feature_extraction.text import TfidfVectorizer
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
from sklearn.svm import SVC
from sklearn.metrics import classification_report
# Download necessary NLTK resources
nltk.download(‘punkt’)
nltk.download(‘stopwords’)
nltk.download(‘wordnet’)
# Expanded dataset for training (labeled)
reviews = [
("This movie is great", "positive"),
("I did not like this film", "negative"),
("The acting was superb", "positive"),
("The plot was confusing", "negative"),
("The movie made me cry", "negative"),
("I loved every moment of it", "positive"),
("The soundtrack was amazing", "positive"),
("I found the storyline engaging", "positive"),
("The characters lacked depth", "negative"),
("The ending was disappointing", "negative"),
("The cinematography is stunning", "positive"),
("The dialogue felt forced", "negative"),
("I couldn’t stop laughing", "positive"),
("The pacing was too slow", "negative"),
("The performances were captivating", "positive"),
("The special effects were lackluster", "negative"),
("The humor felt forced and awkward", "negative"),
("The music was uplifting and memorable", "positive"),
("The story kept me on the edge of my seat", "positive"),
("The film failed to live up to expectations", "negative"),
("The direction was brilliant", "positive"),
("The screenplay was poorly written", "negative"),
("The lead actor delivered an outstanding performance", "positive"),
("The editing was choppy and disjointed", "negative"),
("The movie had a profound impact on me", "positive"),
("The dialogue was witty and engaging", "positive"),
("The film lacked originality", "negative"),
("The cinematography was breathtaking", "positive"),
("The storyline was predictable", "negative"),
("The movie exceeded my expectations", "positive"),
("The character development was weak", "negative")
# Add more labeled data as needed
]
# Function to preprocess text
def preprocess_text(text):
lemmatizer = WordNetLemmatizer()
tokens = word_tokenize(text.lower()) # Convert to lowercase and tokenize
tokens = [lemmatizer.lemmatize(token) for token in tokens if
token.isalnum()] # Lemmatize and remove non-alphanumeric tokens
tokens = [token for token in tokens if token not in stopwords.
words(‘english’)] # Remove stopwords
return ’ ’.join(tokens)
# Preprocess the reviews
preprocessed_reviews 
= 
[(preprocess_text(review), 
sentiment) 
for 
review, 

--- Strana 165 ---
sentiment
in reviews]
# Split data into features and labels
X = [review for review, _ in preprocessed_reviews]
y = [sentiment for _, sentiment in preprocessed_reviews]
# Split data into training and testing sets
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.2, random_
state=42)
# Vectorize the preprocessed text
vectorizer = TfidfVectorizer()
X_train_vectorized = vectorizer.fit_transform(X_train)
X_test_vectorized = vectorizer.transform(X_test)
# Train a Support Vector Machine classifier
classifier = SVC(kernel=’linear’, random_state=42)
classifier.fit(X_train_vectorized, y_train)
# Evaluate classifier
y_pred = classifier.predict(X_test_vectorized)
print(classification_report(y_test, y_pred))
The classification report (Code 5.8) provides insightful metrics regarding
the performance of the sentiment analysis model. With a precision of 0.75
for negative sentiment and 0.67 for positive sentiment, it indicates that
when the model predicts a sentiment, it is correct approximately 75% of the
time for negative sentiment and 67% for positive sentiment. The recall
values of 0.75 for negative sentiment and 0.67 for positive sentiment imply
that the model effectively identifies 75% of the negative sentiment instances
and 67% of the positive sentiment instances out of all instances present in
the dataset. The F1-scores, which are the harmonic mean of precision and
recall, are 0.75 for negative sentiment and 0.67 for positive sentiment,
suggesting a balance between precision and recall for both classes. With an
overall accuracy of 71%, the model correctly classifies 71% of the instances
in the test set. The macro average and weighted average, both around 0.71,
provide overall performance summaries considering precision, recall, and
F1-score across both classes. These metrics collectively indicate that the
model exhibits reasonable performance in classifying sentiment, with
relatively balanced precision and recall values for both positive and
negative sentiments.

--- Strana 166 ---
5.8.7 Social media monitoring
Social media monitoring using natural language processing (NLP) involves
leveraging computational techniques to track and analyze conversations,
trends, sentiments, and mentions across various social media platforms. It
aids businesses, organizations, and individuals in understanding public
perceptions, customer feedback, and emerging trends related to their brand,
products, ortopics of interest. Through NLP, social media monitoring
encompasses sentiment analysis to determine the positivity, negativity, or
neutrality of discussions, trend detection to identify emerging topics or
hashtags, brand monitoring to gauge sentiment and manage reputation,
competitor analysis to assess competitors’ strategies and sentiments,
audience insights to understand demographics and behaviors, crisis
management to address PR crises in real-time, influencer identification to
recognize impactful individuals or accounts, and customer feedback
analysis to improve products or services. Overall, NLP-powered social
media monitoring enables data-driven decision-making, effective audience
engagement, and proactive reputation management.
The Python program shown in Code 5.9 showcases the application of
natural language processing (NLP) techniques for social media monitoring
tasks. It begins by importing essential libraries, including NLTK for
sentiment analysis and spaCy for trend detection and entity recognition.
After downloading the NLTK Vader lexicon for sentiment analysis, the
spaCy English model is loaded

--- Strana 167 ---
Code 5.9:
import nltk
from nltk.sentiment import SentimentIntensityAnalyzer
import spacy
from collections import Counter
# Download NLTK resources (if not already downloaded)
nltk.download(‘vader_lexicon’)
# Load spaCy model
nlp = spacy.load("en_core_web_sm")
# Sample social media text data
social_media_text = """
Just tried out the new iPhone and I’m loving it! ?? #iPhone #tech
The customer service of XYZ company is terrible. I’ll never buy from them
again. ?? #CustomerService #Feedback
Anyone else excited about the upcoming product launch? #NewProduct
#LaunchEvent
Great experience at ABC restaurant! Highly recommend it. #Restaurant
#Review
"""
# Sentiment analysis using NLTK’s SentimentIntensityAnalyzer
sid = SentimentIntensityAnalyzer()
sentiments = [sid.polarity_scores(sentence)[‘compound’] for sentence in
nltk.sent_tokenize(social_media_text)]
overall_sentiment = sum(sentiments) / len(sentiments)
print("Overall sentiment score:", overall_sentiment)
# Trend detection and entity recognition using spaCy
doc = nlp(social_media_text)
hashtags = [token.text for token in doc if token.text.startswith("#")]
entities = [entity.text for entity in doc.ents if entity.label_ == "ORG"]
trends = Counter(hashtags + entities).most_common(5) # Get top 5 trends
print("Top trends and entities:", trends)
to provide linguistic annotations and NLP capabilities. Next, a sample
social media text, containing user comments and hashtags, is defined.
Sentiment analysis is performed using NLTK’s SentimentIntensityAnalyzer,
computing the overall sentiment score by averaging the compound scores of
individual sentences. Using spaCy, trend detection and entity recognition
are executed by extracting named entities (specifically, organizations) and
hashtags from the text. The Counter class helps count the occurrences of
each hashtag and named entity, identifying the top five trends/entities based
on frequency. Ultimately, the program outputs the overall sentiment score
and the top trends/entities identified from the social media text, illustrating

--- Strana 168 ---
the capabilities of NLP in analyzing and understanding social media
content.
The overall sentiment score of 0.225 indicates a slightly positive
sentiment in the social media text. This score is computed by averaging the
compound sentiment scores of individual sentences, suggesting that the
majority of the content expresses neutral or slightly positive sentiment. The
top trends/entities identified from the text include hashtags such as ‘#’,
indicating general topics or discussions, and specific mentions such as
‘iPhone’, ‘XYZ company’, ‘New-Product’, and ‘ABC’. The appearance of
the hashtag ‘#’ multiple times suggests that general discussions or topics are
prevalent in the text, while specific mentions like ‘iPhone’ and ‘New
Product’ may indicate discussions related to new products or technology.
The mention of ‘XYZ company’ alongside a negative sentiment sentence
suggests that there might be a complaint or negative feedback associated
with this company. Conversely, the mention of ‘ABC’ restaurant alongside
positive sentiment indicates a positive review or recommendation. Overall,
the analysis indicates a mixed sentiment in the social media text, with a
slight overall positivity and discussions covering a range of topics including
technology products, companies, and customer experiences.

--- Strana 169 ---
CHAPTER 6
Generative AI
Generative AI, a subset of artificial intelligence, encompasses algorithms
and models designed to produce new data samples that closely resemble
those from a given dataset. The development of generative AI involves
several key steps. Initially, a diverse and representative dataset is collected
to serve as the foundation for the model’s training. Next, a suitable
generative model architecture is selected, such as generative adversarial
networks (GANs), variational autoencoders (VAEs), or autoregressive
models. These architectures are then trained on the dataset using
optimization techniques, allowing the model to learn the underlying
patterns and structures of the data. Fine-tuning and evaluation follow,
ensuring the generated samples are of high quality and align with the
characteristics of the training data.
Generative AI operates based on the principle of learning a mapping from
a lower-dimensional latent space to the higher-dimensional space of the
input data. Each generative model architecture employs a distinct approach
to accomplish this mapping. For instance, GANs consist of a generator and
a discriminator network that engage in adversarial training, with the
generator generating fake samples and the discriminator distinguishing
between real and fake samples. In contrast, VAEs encode input data into a
probabilistic distribution over a latent space and decode it to reconstruct the
data, while autoregressive models generate data sequentially, conditioning
on previous elements.
The importance and impact of generative AI extend across various
domains and daily activities. Creatively, generative AI empowers content

--- Strana 170 ---
creators to produce realistic images, videos, music, and text, revolutionizing
digital art and entertainment. In healthcare and drug discovery, generative
models accelerate research by designing new molecules, drugs, and
materials 
with 
desired 
properties. 
Additionally, 
in 
personalized
recommendations and marketing, generative AI enhances user experience
by providing tailored suggestions based on individual preferences.
Moreover, generative AI drives innovation in simulation and gaming,
enabling the creation of immersive virtual environments and realistic game
scenarios.
Generative AI represents a powerful tool with transformative potential
across diverse fields. Its ability to generate synthetic data, create
personalized content, facilitate medical research, and enhance user
experiences underscores its significance in today’s technological landscape.
However, as with any advanced technology, ethical considerations
surrounding data privacy, bias, and responsible use are paramount to ensure
generative AI’s positive impact on society.
6.1 Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs)
GANs are a class of machine learning frameworks designed by Ian
Goodfellow and his colleagues in 2014. GANs consist of two neural
networks, the generator and the discriminator, that are trained
simultaneously through adversarial processes. The generator creates
synthetic data resembling the training data, while the discriminator
evaluates the authenticity of the generated data. This adversarial dynamic
enables GANs to produce highly realistic data, such as images, music, and
text, making them a powerful tool in various domains.
The generator is a neural network that takes random noise as input and
transforms it into data that mimics the real dataset. Its goal is to produce
outputs indistinguishable from genuine data. The discriminator, on the other

--- Strana 171 ---
hand, is a neural network that evaluates the authenticity of the data it
receives, whether it comes from the generator or the actual training dataset.
The discriminator aims to correctly classify data as real or fake. During
training, the generator improves its ability to create realistic data, while the
discriminator enhances its capacity to identify synthetic data.
The training of GANs is a zero-sum game, where the generator and
discriminator are in constant competition. The generator attempts to fool the
discriminator, while the discriminator strives to distinguish between real
and fake data accurately. This process involves alternating updates to the
networks: the generator is updated to maximize the likelihood of the
discriminator misclassifying its output as real, and the discriminator is
updated to minimize the probability of misclassification. This adversarial
process continues until the generator produces data that the discriminator
can no longer reliably distinguish from real data.
GANs have found applications across a wide range of fields due to their
ability to generate high-quality data. In computer vision, GANs are used for
image synthesis, super-resolution, and style transfer. In the entertainment
industry, they help create realistic animations and enhance special effects.
GANs also play a significant role in healthcare, aiding in medical image
analysis and drug discovery. Additionally, they are employed in the
development of new art forms, music generation, and even creating virtual
environments for video games and simulations.
Despite their success, GANs face several challenges. Training instability
is a common issue, as the balance between the generator and discriminator
can be difficult to maintain. Mode collapse, where the generator produces
limited varieties of outputs, is another problem. Researchers are actively
working on improving GAN architectures and training techniques to
address these challenges. Future directions include enhancing training

--- Strana 172 ---
stability, developing better evaluation metrics, and expanding GAN
applications in more diverse fields. The continued evolution of GANs
promises to unlock even more innovative uses and improvements in
synthetic data generation.
6.1.1 Image generation
Generative adversarial networks (GANs) are a class of machine learning
frameworks designed to generate new data samples that resemble a given
training dataset. They consist of two neural networks: a generator and a
discriminator. The generator’s role is to create new data samples, such as
images, from random noise. Meanwhile, the discriminator evaluates these
samples to determine whether they are real (from the training dataset) or
fake (produced by the generator). The two networks are trained
simultaneously in a process where the generator aims to create increasingly
realistic images to fool the discriminator, while the discriminator strives to
become better at distinguishing real images from fake ones. This adversarial
training continues until the generator produces images that are
indistinguishable from real ones to the discriminator.
During training, the generator and discriminator are engaged in a
minimax game. The generator tries to minimize the discriminator’s ability
to distinguish between real and fake images, while the discriminator aims to
maximize its accuracy. This iterative process drives the generator to
produce high-quality images. GANs have been used for various image
generation tasks, such as creating photorealistic human faces, artwork, and
even super-resolution images. Techniques like DCGAN (deep convolutional
GAN) and StyleGAN have advanced the capabilities of GANs, enabling the
generation of highly detailed and stylistically consistent images. These
advancements in GAN technology have broad applications, including in
creative industries, data augmentation, and virtual reality.

--- Strana 173 ---
Code 6.1:
import torch
import torch.nn as nn
import torch.optim as optim
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
# Synthetic dataset generator (circle)
def generate_real_data(n):
radius = 1
angles = np.linspace(0, 2 * np.pi, n)
x = radius * np.cos(angles)
y = radius * np.sin(angles)
data = np.vstack((x, y)).T
return data
# Define the generator network
class Generator(nn.Module):
def __init__(self):
super(Generator, self).__init__()
self.main = nn.Sequential(
nn.Linear(10, 16),
nn.ReLU(True), nn.Linear(16, 32),
nn.Linear(16, 32),
nn.ReLU(True),
nn.Linear(32, 2),
)
def forward(self, x):
return self.main(x)
# Define the discriminator network
class Discriminator(nn.Module):
def __init__(self): super(Discriminator, self).__init__()
super(Discriminator, self).__init__()
self.main = nn.Sequential(
nn.Linear(2, 32),
nn.LeakyReLU(0.2, inplace=True),
nn.Linear(32, 16),
nn.LeakyReLU(0.2, inplace=True),
nn.Linear(16, 1),
nn.Sigmoid()
)
def forward(self, x):
return self.main(x)
# Hyperparameters
batch_size = 64
learning_rate = 0.0002
num_epochs = 2500
latent_size = 10
data_points = 1000
# Generate synthetic dataset
real_data = generate_real_data(data_points)
real_data = torch.tensor(real_data, dtype=torch.float32)
# Initialize models
generator = Generator()
discriminator = Discriminator()
# Loss and optimizers
criterion = nn.BCELoss()
optimizer_g = optim.Adam(generator.parameters(), lr=learning_rate)
optimizer_d = optim.Adam(discriminator.parameters(), lr=learning_rate)
# Training loop
for epoch in range(num_epochs):

--- Strana 174 ---
for i in range(data_points // batch_size):
# Prepare real data batch
real_batch = real_data[i * batch_size:(i + 1) * batch_size]
real_labels = torch.ones(batch_size, 1)
# Train discriminator with real data
outputs = discriminator(real_batch)
d_loss_real = criterion(outputs, real_labels)
# Generate fake data
z = torch.randn(batch_size, latent_size)
fake_data = generator(z)
fake_labels = torch.zeros(batch_size, 1)
# Train discriminator with fake data
outputs = discriminator(fake_data.detach())
d_loss_fake = criterion(outputs, fake_labels)
# Total discriminator loss
d_loss = d_loss_real + d_loss_fake
optimizer_d.zero_grad()
d_loss.backward()
optimizer_d.step()
# Train generator
z = torch.randn(batch_size, latent_size)
fake_data = generator(z)
outputs = discriminator(fake_data)
g_loss = criterion(outputs, real_labels)
optimizer_g.zero_grad()
g_loss.backward()
optimizer_g.step()
if (epoch + 1) % 1000 == 0:
print(f’Epoch [{epoch + 1}/{num_epochs}], D Loss: {d_loss.item():.4f}, G
Loss: {g_loss.item():.4f}’) with torch.no_grad():
fake_data = generator(torch.randn(data_points, latent_size)).cpu().
numpy()
plt.scatter(real_data[:, 0], real_data[:, 1], color=’blue’, label=’Real Data’)
plt.scatter(fake_data[:, 0], fake_data[:, 1], color=’red’, label=’Fake Data’)
plt.legend()
plt.show()
print(‘Training finished.’)
The program shown in Code 6.1 implements a generative adversarial
network (GAN) to generate synthetic data points arranged in a circular
pattern. The synthetic dataset generator creates data points arranged in a
circle, where each point is represented by its x and y coordinates. The GAN
consists of a generator and a discriminator. The generator is a neural
network with three linear layers, which takes a random noise vector of size
10 as input and outputs a 2D point. The discriminator is another neural
network with three linear layers, which takes a 2D point as input and
outputs a probability indicating whether the point is real or fake. The

--- Strana 175 ---
hyperparameters include the batch size, learning rate, number of epochs,
latent size, and the number of data points in the synthetic dataset.
During training, the generator aims to generate fake data points that are
similar to the real data points, while the discriminator aims to distinguish
between real and fake data points. The generator and discriminator are
trained simultaneously, with the generator attempting to minimize the
discriminator’s ability to differentiate between real and fake data points.
After training, the program visualizes the real and fake data points using
matplotlib, where the real data points are shown in blue and the fake data
points generated by the generator are shown in red. The training loop
iterates over the specified number of epochs, and every 1000 epochs, the
current discriminator and generator losses are printed, and the real and fake
data points are visualized.
6.2 Vibrational Autoencoders
Variational autoencoders (VAEs) are a type of generative model that
combines principles from autoencoders and probabilistic graphical models.
Introduced by Kingma and Welling in 2013, VAEs are designed to learn a
probabilistic mapping from a high-dimensional input space (such as
images) to a lower-dimensional latent space. This mapping allows for the
generation of new data points by sampling from the learned latent space.
VAEs are particularly useful in applications where the goal is to generate
new, similar data from a learned distribution.
The architecture of a VAE consists of two main components: the encoder
and the decoder. The encoder maps the input data to a distribution in the
latent space, typically parameterized by a mean and a variance. Instead of
directly encoding the input into a single point in the latent space, the
encoder outputs the parameters of a probability distribution (usually a
Gaussian). This allows the model to capture uncertainty and variability in

--- Strana 176 ---
the data. The decoder then samples from this distribution and maps the
latent variable back to the data space, reconstructing the original input. This
process ensures that the latent space is smooth and continuous, facilitating
meaningful interpolation and data generation.
VAEs are trained using a combination of two loss components: the
reconstruction loss and the KL divergence loss. The reconstruction loss
measures how well the decoder can reconstruct the input data from the
latent representation, typically using a metric like mean squared error. The
KL divergence loss measures how closely the learned latent distribution
matches a prior distribution, usually a standard normal distribution. By
minimizing both these losses, the VAE learns to produce realistic
reconstructions and ensures that the latent space follows a known
distribution, making it possible to generate new data by sampling from this
space.
VAEs have found applications in various domains due to their ability to
generate high-quality data and learn meaningful latent representations. In
image processing, VAEs are used for tasks like image generation,
denoising, and inpainting. They are also applied in natural language
processing for generating text and in recommendation systems to model
user preferences. One of the main advantages of VAEs over other
generative models, such as generative adversarial networks (GANs), is their
ability to explicitly model the data distribution, providing a more
interpretable and structured latent space. This makes VAEs a powerful tool
for unsupervised learning and generative modeling.

--- Strana 177 ---
6.2.1 Training of vibrational encoder
Code 6.2:
import torch
import torch.nn as nn
import torch.optim as optim
import numpy as np
# Generate synthetic dataset
def generate_synthetic_data(num_samples, input_dim):
data = np.random.randn(num_samples, input_dim)
return torch.tensor(data, dtype=torch.float32)
# Define the encoder network
class Encoder(nn.Module):
def __init__(self, input_dim, hidden_dim, latent_dim):
super(Encoder, self).__init__()
self.fc1 = nn.Linear(input_dim, hidden_dim)
self.fc_mu = nn.Linear(hidden_dim, latent_dim)
self.fc_logvar = nn.Linear(hidden_dim, latent_dim)
def forward(self, x):
x = torch.relu(self.fc1(x))
mu = self.fc_mu(x)
logvar = self.fc_logvar(x)
return mu, logvar
# Define the decoder network
class Decoder(nn.Module):
def __init__(self, latent_dim, hidden_dim, output_dim):
super(Decoder, self).__init__()
self.fc1 = nn.Linear(latent_dim, hidden_dim)
self.fc2 = nn.Linear(hidden_dim, output_dim)
def forward(self, x):
x = torch.relu(self.fc1(x))
x = torch.sigmoid(self.fc2(x))
return x
# Define the VAE
class VAE(nn.Module):
def __init__(self, input_dim, hidden_dim, latent_dim):
super(VAE, self).__init__()
self.encoder = Encoder(input_dim, hidden_dim, latent_dim)
self.decoder = Decoder(latent_dim, hidden_dim, input_dim)
def reparameterize(self, mu, logvar):
std = torch.exp(0.5 * logvar)
eps = torch.randn_like(std)
return mu + eps * std
def forward(self, x):
mu, logvar = self.encoder(x)
z = self.reparameterize(mu, logvar)
return self.decoder(z), mu, logvar
# Loss function
def loss_function(recon_x, x, mu, logvar):
BCE = nn.functional.mse_loss(recon_x, x, reduction=’sum’)
KLD = -0.5 * torch.sum(1 + logvar - mu.pow(2) - logvar.exp())
return BCE + KLD
# Hyperparameters
batch_size = 64
learning_rate = 0.001
num_epochs = 10
input_dim = 100 # Dimensionality of the synthetic data
hidden_dim = 32

--- Strana 178 ---
latent_dim = 10
num_samples = 1000 # Number of synthetic data samples
# Generate synthetic dataset
synthetic_data = generate_synthetic_data(num_samples, input_dim)
# Data loader
data_loader = torch.utils.data.DataLoader(synthetic_data,
batch_size=batch_size, shuffle=True)
# Initialize model and optimizer
vae = VAE(input_dim, hidden_dim, latent_dim)
optimizer = optim.Adam(vae.parameters(), lr=learning_rate)
# Training loop
for epoch in range(num_epochs):
vae.train()
train_loss = 0
for i, data in enumerate(data_loader):
optimizer.zero_grad()
recon_data, mu, logvar = vae(data)
loss = loss_function(recon_data, data, mu, logvar)
loss.backward()
train_loss += loss.item()
optimizer.step()
print(f’Epoch {epoch + 1}, Loss: {train_loss / num_samples:.4f}’)
print(‘Training finished.’)
# Save the trained model
torch.save(vae.state_dict(), ‘vae_model.pth’)
The Python program shown in Code 6.2 demonstrates the training of a
variational autoencoder (VAE) on a synthetic dataset. It begins by
generating a synthetic dataset consisting of random samples with a
specified dimensionality and number of samples. The VAE architecture is
then defined, comprising an encoder and a decoder network. The encoder
learns to map the input data to a lower-dimensional latent space
representation, while the decoder reconstructs the original input data from
the latent space representation. During training, the VAE minimizes a loss
function that consists of two components: the reconstruction loss, which
measures the difference between the input and reconstructed data, and the
Kullback–Leibler divergence, which regularizes the latent space distribution
to be close to a unit Gaussian. The VAE is trained for a fixed number of
epochs, with each epoch iterating over the entire dataset in mini-batches.
After training, the program saves the trained model to a file. The training
process is considered complete when the specified number of epochs is

--- Strana 179 ---
reached, and the program prints ‘Training finished.’ The trained VAE can be
further utilized for data compression, generation of new samples, or other
relevant tasks in subsequent steps.
6.3 Autoregressive Models
Autoregressive models are a class of statistical models that aim to predict
future values of a time series based on its past values. These models assume
that each observation in the time series is linearly dependent on its previous
observations, hence the term ‘autoregressive.’ In essence, autoregressive
models capture the temporal dependencies present in the data. One of the
key concepts in autoregressive models is the order, denoted as ‘p,’ which
represents the number of lagged observations used as predictors for the
current observation. The model’s order determines how far back in time the
model looks to make predictions. Higher-order autoregressive models
consider more past observations but can be computationally expensive and
prone to overfitting.
A widely used autoregressive model is the autoregressive integrated
moving average (ARIMA) model, which combines autoregressive (AR),
differencing (I), and moving average (MA) components to model different
aspects of time series data. The autoregressive component captures the
linear relationship between an observation and a specified number of lagged
observations. The differencing component addresses non-stationarity in the
data by transforming it into a stationary series. The moving average
component models the dependency between an observation and a residual
error from a moving average model applied to lagged observations. ARIMA
models are versatile and widely used for time series forecasting in various
domains, including finance, economics, and climate science.
Autoregressive models have been extended and adapted to address
specific challenges and requirements in different applications. For instance,

--- Strana 180 ---
in the field of natural language processing, autoregressive models such as
recurrent neural networks (RNNs) and transformers are used to generate
text by predicting the next word in a sequence based on previous words.
These models have also been applied in image processing tasks, where
autoregressive models generate images pixel by pixel by predicting the
value of each pixel based on previously generated pixels. Overall,
autoregressive models provide a flexible and powerful framework for
analyzing and forecasting time series data, with applications spanning a
wide range of domains and disciplines.

--- Strana 181 ---
6.3.1 Forecasting time series data
Code 6.3:
import numpy as np
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from statsmodels.tsa.arima.model import ARIMA
from statsmodels.tsa.stattools import adfuller
# Generate synthetic time series data
np.random.seed(0)
time_index = pd.date_range(start=’2022-01-01’, end=’2023-01-01’, freq=’D’)
data = np.random.randn(len(time_index)).cumsum()
ts = pd.Series(data, index=time_index)
# Plot the time series data
plt.figure(figsize=(10, 6))
plt.plot(ts)
plt.title(‘Synthetic Time Series Data’)
plt.xlabel(‘Date’)
plt.ylabel(‘Value’)
plt.grid(True)
plt.show()
# Check for stationarity using the Augmented Dickey-Fuller test
adf_result = adfuller(ts)
print(‘ADF Statistic:’, adf_result[0])
print(‘p-value:’, adf_result[1])
print(‘Critical Values:’)
for key, value in adf_result[4].items():
print(f’ {key}: {value}’)
# Fit ARIMA model
order = (2, 1, 2) # ARIMA order (p, d, q)
model = ARIMA(ts, order=order)
fit_model = model.fit()
# Forecast future values
forecast_steps = 30
forecast = fit_model.forecast(steps=forecast_steps)
# Plot the original time series and forecasted values
plt.figure(figsize=(10, 6))
plt.plot(ts, label=’Original Data’)
plt.plot(fit_model.fittedvalues, label=’Fitted Values’, color=’orange’)
plt.plot(forecast, label=’Forecast’, color=’red’)
plt.title(‘ARIMA Forecast’)
plt.xlabel(‘Date’)
plt.ylabel(‘Value’)
plt.legend()
plt.grid(True)
plt.show()
The Python code given in Code 6.3 implements an autoregressive model
using the ARIMA (autoregressive integrated moving average) model from
the statsmodels library to forecast future values of a synthetic time series
data. Initially, synthetic time series data is generated using NumPy,

--- Strana 182 ---
representing a cumulative sum of random normal variables. This data is
then plotted to visualize the trend over time. The augmented Dickey–Fuller
test is applied to check for stationarity in the time series data, which is a
prerequisite for using ARIMA models. The ARIMA model is then fitted to
the time series data with a specified order ‘(p, d, q)’, where ‘p’ represents
the autoregressive (AR) order, ‘d’ represents the differencing order for
stationarity, and ‘q’ represents the moving average (MA) order. Once the
model is fitted, future values are forecasted using the ‘forecast’ method.
Finally, the original time series data, fitted values, and forecasted values are
plotted to visualize the model’s performance in capturing the underlying
patterns and predicting future trends in the time series data. The output of
the augmented Dickey–Fuller (ADF) test provides valuable insights into the
stationarity of the time series data. The ADF statistic, which measures the
strength of evidence against the null hypothesis of non-stationarity, is
approximately −0.93 in this case. The p-value, which indicates the
probability of observing such a test statistic under the null hypothesis, is
approximately 0.776. Comparing this p-value to commonly used
significance levels, such as 1%, 5%, and 10%, reveals that it exceeds these
thresholds. Additionally, the critical values, which represent specific
thresholds for rejecting the null hypothesis at different significance levels,
are provided. In this instance, the ADF statistic does not surpass these
critical values, indicating that we fail to reject the null hypothesis of non-
stationarity. Consequently, the synthetic time series data may exhibit trends
or seasonality, suggesting the need for further preprocessing, such as
differencing or transformation, to achieve stationarity before applying
autoregressive models like ARIMA. The effectiveness of the ARIMA
forecast as shown in Figure 6.1.

--- Strana 183 ---
Figure 6.1: Comparison of the ARIMA forecast.
6.4 Markov Chain Models
Markov chain models, named after the Russian mathematician Andrey
Markov, are stochastic models used to describe a sequence of possible
events in which the probability of each event depends only on the state
attained in the previous event. In other words, they are memoryless systems
that transition between different states over time according to a set of
probabilities. These transitions can be represented graphically as a directed
graph, where each node represents a state, and the edges between nodes
represent the probabilities of transitioning from one state to another.
Markov chain models find applications in various fields such as finance,
biology, telecommunications, and natural language processing. One of the
defining characteristics of Markov chain models is the Markov property,
which states that the future state of the system depends only on its current
state and not on its past history

--- Strana 184 ---
Markov chain models come in various forms, including discrete-time and
continuous-time models. Discrete-time Markov chains involve transitions
between states that occur at discrete, evenly spaced time intervals.
Continuous-time Markov chains, on the other hand, allow transitions
between states to occur at any point in time, following exponential waiting
time distributions. Both types of models have their applications and are
used to analyze different types of systems. Markov chain models offer a
powerful framework for modeling and analyzing sequential data and have
been instrumental in understanding and predicting various real-world
phenomena, making them a fundamental tool in the field of stochastic
modeling and probability theory.

--- Strana 185 ---
6.4.1 Generation of text
Code 6.4:
import random
# Function to create a Markov Chain Model from input text
def create_markov_chain(text, order=1):
words = text.split()
markov_chain = {}
for i in range(len(words) - order):
prefix = tuple(words[i:i + order])
suffix = words[i + order]
if prefix in markov_chain:
markov_chain[prefix].append(suffix)
else:
markov_chain[prefix] = [suffix]
return markov_chain
# Function to generate text using the Markov Chain Model
def generate_text(markov_chain, num_words=100):
prefix = random.choice(list(markov_chain.keys()))
generated_text = list(prefix)
while len(generated_text) < num_words:
if prefix in markov_chain:
next_word = random.choice(markov_chain[prefix])
generated_text.append(next_word)
prefix = tuple(generated_text[-len(prefix):])
else:
break
return ’ ’.join(generated_text)
# Example text corpus
text_corpus = "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog"
# Create a first-order Markov Chain Model from the text corpus
markov_chain = create_markov_chain(text_corpus, order=1)
# Generate text using the Markov Chain Model
generated_text = generate_text(markov_chain, num_words=20)
# Display the generated text
print("Generated Text:")
print(generated_text)
The Python code shown in Code 6.4 illustrates the generation of text using
a Markov chain model, a probabilistic model that describes transitions
between states. In this context, states are represented by word sequences in
a text corpus. The ‘create_markov_chain’ function constructs the Markov
chain model from the input text by analyzing the sequential occurrence of
word sequences. Each prefix of length specified by the order parameter is
associated with the subsequent word (suffix) in the ‘markov_chain’
dictionary, capturing the transition probabilities between word sequences.

--- Strana 186 ---
The ‘generate_text’ function utilizes this Markov chain model to generate
new text. It begins by randomly selecting a prefix from the dictionary keys
and then probabilistically selects subsequent words based on the observed
transitions in the model. The process continues until the desired number of
words is generated or until no further transitions are available. Through this
mechanism, the program effectively simulates the generation of text that
follows a similar pattern and style as the input text corpus, showcasing one
practical application of Markov chain models in natural language
processing tasks such as text generation.
6.5 Boltzmann Machines
Boltzmann machines (BMs) are a type of probabilistic graphical model
used in machine learning for unsupervised learning tasks such as feature
learning, dimensionality reduction, and data generation. Developed by
Geoffrey Hinton and Terry Sejnowski in the 1980s, BMs are inspired by the
principles of statistical mechanics and the Boltzmann distribution in
physics. These models consist of a network of binary-valued units, typically
organized into visible and hidden layers, with symmetric connections
between them. Unlike deterministic neural networks, BMs incorporate
stochasticity through the use of Gibbs sampling to explore the probability
distribution over the configurations of the units.
One distinctive feature of Boltzmann machines is their ability to learn
complex probability distributions over high-dimensional input data. During
training, BMs adjust the weights of connections between units to maximize
the likelihood of observed data samples. This process involves iteratively
updating the weights using stochastic gradient descent and contrastive
divergence, a form of approximate maximum likelihood estimation. As
BMs learn, they capture statistical dependencies and correlations present in

--- Strana 187 ---
the input data, enabling them to generate new data samples that resemble
the training data distribution.
Boltzmann machines can be categorized into two main types: restricted
Boltzmann machines (RBMs) and deep Boltzmann machines (DBMs).
RBMs have a bipartite structure with one visible layer and one hidden layer,
making them computationally efficient and easier to train. They have been
successfully applied in various tasks such as collaborative filtering, feature
learning, and dimensionality reduction. On the other hand, DBMs extend
RBMs by introducing multiple layers of hidden units, allowing them to
learn hierarchical representations of data. While DBMs offer more
expressive power, they are also more challenging to train due to the deep,
hierarchical nature of the model.
Despite their initial challenges with training and scalability, Boltzmann
machines remain a valuable tool in the field of machine learning,
particularly in the domain of unsupervised learning. Their ability to capture
complex data distributions and generate new data samples makes them
applicable in diverse areas such as natural language processing, image
recognition, and recommendation systems. Ongoing research continues to
explore advancements in training algorithms and architectures, further
enhancing the capabilities of Boltzmann machines for tackling real-world
problems.
6.5.1 Pattern recognition
The Python code given in Code 6.5 demonstrates pattern recognition using
restricted Boltzmann machines (RBM) on the MNIST dataset of
handwritten digits. Initially, the dataset is loaded and preprocessed by
normalizing the pixel values to the range [0, 1] using ‘MinMaxScaler’. This
normalization helps improve the training efficiency and performance of the
model. The data is then split into training and testing sets with an 80–20

--- Strana 188 ---
split to evaluate the model’s performance on unseen data. An RBM is
created with 256 hidden units, a learning rate of 0.01, and set to run for 10
iterations. The RBM is combined with a logistic regression classifier in a
pipeline, where the RBM extracts features from
Code 6.5:
import numpy as np
from sklearn.neural_network import BernoulliRBM
from sklearn.pipeline import Pipeline
from sklearn import linear_model
from sklearn import datasets
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
from sklearn.preprocessing import MinMaxScaler
from sklearn import metrics
# Load the MNIST dataset
digits = datasets.load_digits()
X = digits.data
y = digits.target
# Normalize the data
scaler = MinMaxScaler()
X_scaled = scaler.fit_transform(X)
# Split data into training and test sets
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X_scaled, y, test_size=0.2,
random_state=42)
# Create an RBM model
rbm = BernoulliRBM(n_components=256, learning_rate=0.01, n_iter=10, ran-
dom_state=42) # Logistic regression for classification
logistic = linear_model.LogisticRegression(max_iter=10000, solver=’lbfgs’,
multi_class=’multinomial’)
# Create a pipeline with the RBM and logistic regression
classifier = Pipeline(steps=[(‘rbm’, rbm), (‘logistic’, logistic)])
# Train the model
classifier.fit(X_train, y_train)
# Predict using the test set
y_pred = classifier.predict(X_test)
# Evaluate the model
accuracy = metrics.accuracy_score(y_test, y_pred)
print(f’Accuracy: {accuracy * 100:.2f}%’)
# Print a classification report
print(metrics.classification_report(y_test, y_pred))
# Confusion matrix
print(metrics.confusion_matrix(y_test, y_pred))
the input data, and the logistic regression model performs the classification. 
The
pipeline is trained on the training set, and predictions are made on the test 
set.
The model’s performance is evaluated using accuracy, a classification report,
and a confusion matrix. This approach leverages the RBM’s capability to learn
meaningful features from the data, enhancing the overall pattern recognition
process

--- Strana 189 ---
Code 6.6:
Accuracy: 80.56%
precision
recall
fl-score
support
0
0.86
0.94
0.90
33
1
0.61
0.68
0.64
28
2
0.72
0.85
0.78
33
3
0.78
0.85
0.82
34
4
0.96
1.00
0.98
46
5
0.94
0.62
0.74
47
6
0.94
0.97
0.96
35
7
0.73
0.97
0.84
34
8
1.00
0.43
0.60
30
9
0.64
0.70
0.67
40
accuracy
0.81
360
macro avg
0.82
0.80
0.79
360
weighted avg
0.83
0.81
0.80
360
[[31 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0]
[ 0 19 5 0 0 0 0 2 0 2]
[ 0 3 28 2 0 0 0 0 0 0]
[ 0 0 2 29 0 0 1 1 0 1]
[ 0 0 0 0 46 0 0 0 0 0]
[ 4 1 0 0 0 29 1 2 0 10]
[ 1 0 0 0 0 0 34 0 0 0]
[ 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 33 0 0]
[ 0 7 4 0 0 1 0 2 13 3]
[ 0 0 0 6 1 0 0 5 0 28]]
The performance of the restricted Boltzmann machine (RBM) combined
with logistic regression on the MNIST dataset (Code 6.6) demonstrates an
overall accuracy of 80.56%. The classification report reveals that precision,
recall, and F1-scores vary significantly across different digits. Digits like
‘4’ and ‘6’ exhibit high precision and recall scores (close to or at 1.00),
indicating excellent classification performance. However, other digits such

--- Strana 190 ---
as ‘1’ and ‘8’ show lower scores, particularly in recall for digit ‘8’, which is
only 0.43, suggesting difficulty in correctly identifying these digits. The
confusion matrix provides a detailed view of misclassifications, showing
that certain digits are more frequently confused with specific others (e.g.,
digit ‘5’ is often misclassified as ‘9’ and vice versa). The macro and
weighted averages of the precision, recall, and F1-scores are consistent with
the overall accuracy, reinforcing the model’s moderate effectiveness in
pattern recognition. These results suggest that while the RBM and logistic
regression pipeline is effective for some digits, there is room for
improvement in distinguishing more challenging digits.
6.6 Deep Belief Networks
Deep belief networks (DBNs) are a class of deep learning models composed
of multiple layers of stochastic, latent variables, typically implemented as
stacks of restricted Boltzmann machines (RBMs) or autoencoders. DBNs
are generative models that can learn to probabilistically reconstruct their
inputs. This feature allows them to capture intricate patterns in the data,
making them effective for various tasks such as feature extraction,
dimensionality reduction, and pretraining for supervised learning. The
architecture of a DBN is hierarchical, with each layer capturing higher-level
abstractions of the input data as we move deeper into the network. The first
layer, often an RBM, learns low-level features from the raw input data. The
subsequent layers learn increasingly abstract representations. This
hierarchical feature learning enables DBNs to model complex data
distributions effectively. The training of DBNs typically involves a layer-
by-layer unsupervised pretraining phase, followed by a supervised fine-
tuning phase. During pretraining, each RBM is trained to maximize the
likelihood of the observed data, with the activations of one layer serving as
the input for the next layer.

--- Strana 191 ---
One of the significant advantages of DBNs is their ability to pretrain
deep neural networks. Pretraining initializes the weights of a deep network
in a way that places the model in a better region of the parameter space
compared to random initialization. This can lead to faster convergence and
better performance during the subsequent supervised training phase. The
pretraining phase can also help mitigate issues like vanishing gradients,
which are common in deep networks. This characteristic made DBNs
particularly popular in the early days of deep learning before the advent of
more sophisticated optimization techniques and architectures like
convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and recurrent neural networks
(RNNs). Despite their advantages, DBNs are not without limitations.
Training DBNs can be computationally intensive and time-consuming due
to the unsupervised pretraining phase. Moreover, with advancements in
deep learning, models like CNNs, RNNs, and more recently, transformer-
based architectures, have shown superior performance in many tasks, often
rendering DBNs less favorable in practice. Additionally, DBNs can be
challenging to implement and fine-tune compared to more straightforward
architectures.
Deep belief networks represent an important milestone in the
development of deep learning, demonstrating the power of hierarchical
feature learning and unsupervised pretraining. They paved the way for more
advanced neural network architectures and training techniques. While their
practical use has diminished in favor of more modern approaches, the
concepts underlying DBNs continue to influence the field of deep learning,
particularly in the context of generative models and unsupervised learning
techniques.

--- Strana 192 ---
6.6.1 Financial forecasting
Code 6.7:
import numpy as np
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from sklearn.preprocessing import MinMaxScaler
from tensorflow.keras.models import Sequential
from tensorflow.keras.layers import Dense, Dropout
from tensorflow.keras.optimizers import Adam
# Generate synthetic financial data
def generate_synthetic_data(length=1000):
np.random.seed(42)
time = np.arange(length)
series = np.sin(0.1 * time) + 0.2 * np.random.randn(length) # Sinusoidal
data with noise
return series
# Create the synthetic dataset
data_length = 1000
data = generate_synthetic_data(data_length)
dates = pd.date_range(start=’2020-01-01’, periods=data_length)
synthetic_data = pd.DataFrame(data, index=dates, columns=[‘Close’])
# Plot the synthetic data
plt.figure(figsize=(12, 6))
plt.plot(synthetic_data.index, synthetic_data[‘Close’])
plt.title(‘Synthetic Financial Time Series Data’)
plt.xlabel(‘Date’)
plt.ylabel(‘Price’)
plt.show()
# Preprocess the data
scaler = MinMaxScaler()
scaled_data = scaler.fit_transform(synthetic_data)
# Create training and test sets
train_size = int(len(scaled_data) * 0.8)
train_data = scaled_data[:train_size]
test_data = scaled_data[train_size:]
# Create sequences of data for the DBN
def create_sequences(data, seq_length):
X, y = [], []
for i in range(len(data) - seq_length):
X.append(data[i:i+seq_length])
y.append(data[i+seq_length])
return np.array(X), np.array(y)
seq_length = 10 # Example sequence length
X_train, y_train = create_sequences(train_data, seq_length)
X_test, y_test = create_sequences(test_data, seq_length)
# Build the DBN model
model = Sequential()
model.add(Dense(128, input_dim=seq_length, activation=’relu’))
model.add(Dropout(0.2))
model.add(Dense(64, activation=’relu’))
model.add(Dropout(0.2))
model.add(Dense(32, activation=’relu’))
model.add(Dropout(0.2))
model.add(Dense(1, activation=’linear’))
# Compile the model
model.compile(optimizer=Adam(learning_rate=0.001),
loss=’mean_squared_error’)

--- Strana 193 ---
# Train the model
history 
= 
model.fit(X_train, 
y_train, 
epochs=50, 
batch_size=32, 
validation_split=0.2, verbose=1)
# Make predictions
predictions = model.predict(X_test)
predictions = scaler.inverse_transform(predictions)
# Rescale y_test for comparison
y_test_rescaled = scaler.inverse_transform(y_test.reshape(-1, 1))
#Evaluate the model
mse = np.mean((predictions - y_test_rescaled)**2)
print(f’Mean Squared Error: {mse}’)
# Plot the results
plt.figure(figsize=(14, 5))
plt.plot(synthetic_data.index[train_size+seq_length:], y_test_rescaled,
color=’blue’, label=’Actual Price’)
plt.plot(synthetic_data.index[train_size+seq_length:], predictions,
color=’red’, label=’Predicted Price’)
plt.xlabel(‘Date’)
plt.ylabel(‘Price’)
plt.title(‘Stock Price Prediction using DBN’)
plt.legend()
plt.show()
The program (Code 6.7) starts by generating a synthetic financial time
series dataset to simulate stock prices. It uses a sinusoidal function with
added noise to create this data, mimicking the typical fluctuations in stock
prices. The generated data is stored in a Pandas DataFrame with a date
index, starting from ‘2020-01-01’. This synthetic dataset is then visualized
using Matplotlib to provide a clear understanding of its structure. The
comparative analysis of actual and predicted price as shown in Figure 6.3.
The next step involves preprocessing the data, normalizing it to the range
[0, 1] using MinMaxScaler from Scikit-learn to facilitate model training.
The dataset is split into training and test sets, maintaining an 80–20 split
ratio.

--- Strana 194 ---
Figure 6.3: Comparison between actual price and predicted price.
The program then prepares the data for the deep belief network (DBN)
by creating sequences of a fixed length (‘seq_length’). Each sequence is
used as an input feature, with the subsequent value serving as the target for
prediction. The DBN model is constructed using TensorFlow’s Keras API,
consisting of multiple dense layers with ReLU activation and dropout layers
to prevent overfitting. The model is compiled using the Adam optimizer and
mean squared error loss function, and trained on the training data with a
validation split to monitor performance.
After training, the model is used to make predictions on the test data.
These predictions are inverse-transformed to the original scale for
meaningful comparison with actual prices. The program calculates the mean
squared error (MSE) to evaluate the model’s performance quantitatively.
Finally, the actual and predicted stock prices are plotted using Matplotlib to
visualize the DBN’s prediction accuracy, providing a clear graphical
representation of how well the model has learned to forecast stock prices
based on the synthetic dataset.
The model’s performance is evaluated on the test set, resulting in a mean
squared error (MSE) of 0.0530. This MSE indicates the average squared
difference between the predicted and actual values, confirming the model’s
effectiveness in financial forecasting on the synthetic dataset. The

--- Strana 195 ---
continuous decrease in loss values across epochs reflects the model’s
learning curve and its ability to generalize well to unseen data, validating
the DBN’s capability in time series prediction tasks.
6.7 Recurrent Neural Networks
Recurrent neural networks (RNNs) are a class of artificial neural networks
specifically designed for sequence data, making them particularly well-
suited for tasks involving temporal dependencies, such as text generation,
music composition, and time series prediction. Unlike traditional neural
networks, RNNs have the ability to retain information from previous inputs
in the sequence, thanks to their recurrent connections. This unique
architecture allows RNNs to maintain a form of memory, enabling them to
generate outputs that are contextually coherent over time. In text
generation, for instance, an RNN can take a sequence of words or
characters as input and predict the next word or character in the sequence,
thereby producing coherent and contextually relevant text.
One of the key advantages of RNNs in generation tasks is their capacity
to handle varying lengths of input sequences, making them flexible for
different types of sequential data. This flexibility is particularly beneficial
in natural language processing (NLP) applications where sentences and
paragraphs can vary significantly in length. During training, an RNN learns
the probabilistic patterns within the input data, capturing the dependencies
and relationships between different elements in the sequence. For example,
in text generation, an RNN can learn grammatical structures, common
phrases, and contextual word usage from a large corpus of text. Once
trained, the RNN can generate new sequences that mimic the style and
structure of the training data, which is especially useful for applications like
automated story writing, chatbots, and language translation.

--- Strana 196 ---
However, despite their strengths, traditional RNNs face challenges such
as the vanishing gradient problem, which can hinder their ability to learn
long-range dependencies in sequences. This issue arises because the
gradients used to update the network’s weights during training can diminish
exponentially as they are backpropagated through many layers, leading to
difficulties in learning long-term dependencies. To address this, advanced
variants of RNNs, such as long short-term memory (LSTM) networks and
gated recurrent units (GRUs), have been developed. These architectures
incorporate gating mechanisms that regulate the flow of information,
allowing them to maintain long-term dependencies more effectively. As a
result, LSTMs and GRUs are commonly used for generation tasks that
require maintaining context over extended sequences, such as generating
paragraphs of text or composing pieces of music.

--- Strana 197 ---
6.7.1 Wind power plant predictions
Code 6.8:
import numpy as np
import tensorflow as tf
from tensorflow import keras
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
from sklearn.preprocessing import MinMaxScaler
# Generate synthetic data for wind power generation
def generate_synthetic_data(length=1000):
np.random.seed(42)
wind_speed = np.random.uniform(low=0, high=30, size=(length,))
wind_direction = np.random.uniform(low=0, high=360, size=(length,))
temperature = np.random.uniform(low=-10, high=40, size=(length,))
humidity = np.random.uniform(low=0, high=100, size=(length,))
power_generation = 100 * wind_speed * (np.cos(wind_direction - 45) + 1) + \ 20 * 
np.random.normal(size=(length,))
return np.column_stack((wind_speed, wind_direction, temperature, humidity)), 
power_generation
# Generate synthetic data
X, y = generate_synthetic_data()
# Normalize features
scaler = MinMaxScaler()
X_scaled = scaler.fit_transform(X)
# Split data into train and test sets
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X_scaled, y, test_size=0.2, 
random_state=42)
# Reshape data for RNN input (samples, time steps, features)
X_train = X_train.reshape(X_train.shape[0], 1, X_train.shape[1])
X_test = X_test.reshape(X_test.shape[0], 1, X_test.shape[1])
# Define RNN model
model = keras.Sequential([
keras.layers.LSTM(128, 
input_shape=(X_train.shape[1], 
X_train.shape[2]), 
return_sequences=True),
keras.layers.Dropout(0.2),
keras.layers.LSTM(64, return_sequences=False),
keras.layers.Dropout(0.2),
keras.layers.Dense(1)
])
# Compile model
model.compile(optimizer=’adam’, loss=’mse’)
# Train model
history 
= 
model.fit(X_train, 
y_train, 
epochs=100, 
batch_size=32, 
validation_split=0.2)
# Evaluate model
mse = model.evaluate(X_test, y_test)
print("Mean Squared Error:", mse)
The Python code shown in Code 6.8 implements a recurrent neural network
(RNN) model for wind power generation prediction using synthetic data.
The data generation function creates synthetic data for wind speed, wind

--- Strana 198 ---
direction, temperature, humidity, and wind power generation. The data is
preprocessed by normalizing the features and splitting it into training and
test sets. The RNN model architecture consists of two LSTM layers
followed by dropout layers to prevent overfitting and a dense layer for
output. The model is compiled with the Adam optimizer and mean squared
error loss function. It is then trained on the training data for 100 epochs
with a batch size of 32 and a validation split of 0.2. Finally, the model is
evaluated on the test data, and the mean squared error (MSE) is computed
as the evaluation metric.
To reach the highest accuracy with this model, several modifications and
optimizations can be made. Firstly, hyperparameter tuning is essential to
find the optimal configuration for the model. This includes adjusting the
learning rate, batch size, number of LSTM units, and dropout rates.
Secondly, feature engineering plays a crucial role in improving model
performance. Additional features or transformations, such as interaction
terms between variables or time-dependent features, can better capture the
underlying patterns in the data. Thirdly, increasing the model’s complexity
by adding more layers, units, or exploring different types of recurrent layers
(e.g., bidirectional LSTM) may lead to better predictive capabilities.
Regularization techniques like L1/L2 regularization or early stopping can
help 
prevent 
overfitting 
and 
improve 
generalization. 
Moreover,
experimenting with advanced architectures such as attention mechanisms or
convolutional recurrent networks tailored for sequence prediction tasks
could further enhance the model’s accuracy. By iteratively refining the
model and exploring these strategies, the highest accuracy for wind power
generation prediction can be achieved.

--- Strana 199 ---
6.8 Battery Range Prediction
Range prediction is a critical aspect of electric vehicle (EV) technology,
addressing concerns surrounding range anxiety and facilitating optimal
route planning and charging strategies. Accurate range estimates provide
drivers with confidence in their EV’s capabilities and reduce the fear of
running out of battery power mid-journey. This mitigation of range anxiety
is essential for fostering widespread adoption of EVs and encouraging
consumers to make the switch from traditional internal combustion engine
vehicles.
Generative AI plays a pivotal role in predicting EV range by leveraging
advanced machine learning techniques and data analysis methods. Through
a diverse dataset containing information on battery characteristics, driving
conditions, and historical range data, generative AI extracts relevant
features such as battery state of charge, temperature, speed, and road grade.
These features serve as inputs for predictive models, which are trained
using iterative optimization techniques such as neural networks or
regression algorithms.
Once trained, the generative AI model can generate real-time range
predictions for various driving scenarios by considering factors such as
energy consumption, battery efficiency, and external influences like weather
conditions and terrain. These predictions are continuously validated and
calibrated using real-world driving data and user feedback, ensuring their
accuracy and reliability over time. Integrated with onboard vehicle systems
or navigation platforms, generative AI provides EV drivers with seamless
access to real-time range estimates, empowering them to make informed
decisions about their journeys.
By enhancing the usability, efficiency, and reliability of range prediction
technology, generative AI contributes to the broader goals of promoting

--- Strana 200 ---
sustainable transportation systems and accelerating the transition to electric
mobility. With accurate range predictions, drivers can optimize their routes,
minimize charging time, and reduce energy costs, ultimately improving the
overall user experience of EVs and driving their widespread adoption.

--- Strana 201 ---
Code 6.9:
import numpy as np
import pandas as pd
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
from sklearn.preprocessing import StandardScaler
from tensorflow.keras.models import Sequential
from tensorflow.keras.layers import Dense
# Generate synthetic data
num_samples = 1000
speed = np.random.randint(30, 80, size=num_samples) # Speed in km/h
temperature = np.random.uniform(10, 35, size=num_samples) # Temperature
in Celsius
road_grade = np.random.uniform(-5, 5, size=num_samples) # Road grade in %
battery_level = np.random.uniform(20, 90, size=num_samples) # Battery level
in %
# Calculate range based on a simple linear relationship
# Adjust coefficients according to the impact of features on range
range_coefficients = {’speed’: 0.05, ‘temperature’: -0.02, ‘road_grade’: -0.1, 
‘battery_level’: 0.2}
range_values = speed * range_coefficients[‘speed’] + temperature *
range_coefficients[‘temperature’] + \
road_grade * range_coefficients[‘road_grade’] + battery_level *
range_coefficients[‘battery_level’]
range_values += np.random.normal(0, 5, size=num_samples) # Add noise
# Create DataFrame
ev_data = pd.DataFrame({
‘speed’: speed,
‘temperature’: temperature,
‘road_grade’: road_grade,
‘battery_level’: battery_level,
‘range’: range_values
})
# Save DataFrame to CSV
ev_data.to_csv(‘ev_data.csv’, index=False)
# Load the dataset
ev_data = pd.read_csv(‘ev_data.csv’)
# Prepare the data
X = ev_data[[‘speed’, ‘temperature’, ‘road_grade’, ‘battery_level’]]
y = ev_data[‘range’]
# Split the data into training and testing sets
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.2, 
random_state=42)
# Scale the features
scaler = StandardScaler()
X_train_scaled = scaler.fit_transform(X_train)
X_test_scaled = scaler.transform(X_test)
# Build the neural network model
model = Sequential([
Dense(64, activation=’relu’, input_shape=(X_train_scaled.shape[1],)),
Dense(64, activation=’relu’),
Dense(1)
])
model.compile(optimizer=’adam’, loss=’mse’)
# Train the model
model.fit(X_train_scaled, y_train, epochs=50, batch_size=32, validation_data=
(X_test_scaled, y_test))
# Make predictions
new_data = np.array([[75, 30, 0.5, 75]]) # Example new data: speed, temperature, 
road_grade, battery_level

--- Strana 202 ---
new_data_scaled = scaler.transform(new_data)
predicted_range = model.predict(new_data_scaled)
print("Predicted Range:", predicted_range)
The Python program shown in Code 6.9 showcases a comprehensive
workflow for generating synthetic data to simulate electric vehicle (EV)
characteristics, training a neural network model on this data, and
subsequently making predictions about EV range. Initially, synthetic data is
generated for features like speed, temperature, road grade, and battery level,
mimicking real-world driving conditions. Following this, a linear
relationship is established to calculate range values, incorporating noise for
variability. The generated dataset is then saved as a CSV file. Subsequently,
the program loads this dataset, separating features from the target variable
(range), and further splits it into training and testing sets. To facilitate better
convergence during model training, feature scaling is performed using
StandardScaler. A neural network model, constructed using the sequential
API from TensorFlow.keras, consists of two hidden layers with 64 neurons
each, activated by the rectified linear unit (ReLU) function. Upon
compiling the model, training is executed on the scaled training data over
50 epochs, using a batch size of 32 and validation data for monitoring
performance. Finally, the model is utilized to predict EV range for a specific
set of driving conditions, demonstrating the predictive capability of the
neural network in estimating range values based on input features.
The provided output represents the training process of a neural network
model for electric vehicle (EV) range prediction over 50 epochs. Each
epoch involves iterating over the entire dataset to update the model’s
parameters based on computed loss values. The loss, a measure of the
model’s performance, decreases gradually as the training progresses,
indicating improved predictive accuracy. Throughout training, both the

--- Strana 203 ---
training and validation loss values are monitored, where the validation loss
represents the model’s performance on unseen data, ensuring its
generalization ability. By the end of training, the model achieves a
relatively low loss value on both training and validation datasets, suggesting
that it has learned meaningful patterns in the data and can make accurate
predictions. This process demonstrates the iterative nature of training neural
network models, where adjustments are made to optimize model
performance and enhance its ability to predict EV range based on input
features such as speed, temperature, road grade, and battery level.
The predicted range output, represented as 17.8937 kilometers, is the
result of utilizing a trained neural network model to estimate the range of an
electric vehicle (EV) under specific driving conditions. This prediction is
generated based on input features such as speed, temperature, road grade,
and battery level, which collectively influence the EV’s range. The neural
network model, having been trained on a dataset containing these features
along with corresponding range values, has learned complex relationships
between the inputs and outputs through iterative optimization techniques
during the training process. By analyzing the provided input data and
leveraging the learned patterns, the model produces an estimated range
value that reflects the expected distance the EV can travel before requiring a
recharge. This predicted range serves as a valuable tool for EV drivers,
enabling them to make informed decisions about their journeys, plan routes
effectively, and alleviate concerns regarding range anxiety. Overall, the
predicted range output demonstrates the practical application of machine
learning techniques, particularly neural networks, in enhancing the usability
and convenience of electric vehicles in modern transportation systems.

--- Strana 204 ---
6.9 Generative AI for Mobile Applications
Generative AI is transforming transportation systems across various
domains, offering innovative solutions to enhance efficiency, safety, and
sustainability. One significant application lies in traffic simulation and
optimization, where generative AI leverages historical traffic data to
simulate realistic traffic patterns. By generating accurate simulations,
transportation planners can devise effective traffic management strategies,
ultimately reducing congestion and improving overall traffic flow. This
approach enables policymakers to make informed decisions regarding
infrastructure investments and urban planning initiatives, leading to more
efficient and resilient transportation networks.
In the realm of autonomous vehicles, generative AI plays a crucial role in
development by creating synthetic training data and simulating driving
environments. These simulations enable researchers to test autonomous
systems in diverse scenarios, ensuring their readiness for real-world
deployment. Additionally, generative AI aids in route planning and
optimization, analyzing factors such as traffic conditions and vehicle
characteristics to provide optimized routes for drivers and fleet operators.
By minimizing travel time and reducing emissions, this application
contributes to more sustainable transportation practices while enhancing the
overall efficiency of transportation networks.
Predictive maintenance is another area where generative AI excels,
predicting maintenance needs for vehicles and infrastructure based on
sensor data and usage patterns. By identifying potential failures in advance,
transportation agencies can schedule preventive maintenance, reducing
downtime and improving the reliability of transportation systems. Public
transportation systems also benefit from generative AI, which optimizes
service coverage and reliability by analyzing passenger demand and travel

--- Strana 205 ---
patterns. This optimization leads to more accessible and efficient public
transit options, ultimately improving mobility for communities.
Furthermore, generative AI aids in traffic sign recognition and scene
understanding, enhancing safety and awareness on the road. By accurately
detecting and classifying traffic signs, generative AI helps drivers and
autonomous vehicles navigate complex road environments more effectively.
Finally, in the domain of electric vehicles (EVs), generative AI assists in
planning and deploying charging infrastructure by analyzing factors such as
population density and energy demand. This application facilitates the
transition to electric mobility by ensuring the availability of charging
stations and supporting the widespread adoption of EVs.
Generative AI offers a diverse range of applications in transportation
systems, from optimizing traffic flow and route planning to enhancing
safety, efficiency, and sustainability across various modes of transportation.
By leveraging generative models and predictive analytics, transportation
stakeholders can address the evolving challenges of modern mobility and
pave the way for a more connected, efficient, and sustainable transportation
future.

--- Strana 206 ---
Code 6.10:
import pandas as pd
import numpy as np
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
from sklearn.tree import DecisionTreeRegressor
from sklearn.metrics import mean_squared_error
from sklearn.tree import plot_tree
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
# Generate synthetic data for the dataset
num_samples = 1000
# Generate starting and destination locations (latitude and longitude)
starting_latitude = np.random.uniform(40.5, 41, size=num_samples)
starting_longitude = np.random.uniform(-74.2, -73.5, size=num_samples)
destination_latitude = np.random.uniform(40.5, 41, size=num_samples)
destination_longitude = np.random.uniform(-74.2, -73.5, size=num_samples)
# Generate random times of departure (hours and minutes)
hours_of_departure = np.random.randint(0, 24, size=num_samples)
minutes_of_departure = np.random.randint(0, 60, size=num_samples)
# Generate traffic conditions (low, medium, high)
traffic_conditions = np.random.choice([‘low’, ‘medium’, ‘high’],
size=num_samples)
# Generate road conditions (construction, accidents, normal)
road_conditions = np.random.choice([‘construction’, ‘accidents’, ‘normal’],
size=num_samples)
# Generate weather conditions (clear, partly cloudy, rainy)
weather_conditions = np.random.choice([‘clear’, ‘partly cloudy’, ‘rainy’],
size=num_samples)
# Generate historical data for different routes (in minutes)
historical_data_route_A = np.random.randint(30, 120, size=num_samples)
historical_data_route_B = np.random.randint(40, 150, size=num_samples)
historical_data_route_C = np.random.randint(50, 180, size=num_samples)
# Create DataFrame
data = pd.DataFrame({
‘Starting Latitude’: starting_latitude,
‘Starting Longitude’: starting_longitude,
‘Destination Latitude’: destination_latitude,
‘Destination Longitude’: destination_longitude,
‘Time of Departure (Hour)’: hours_of_departure,
‘Time of Departure (Minute)’: minutes_of_departure,
‘Traffic Conditions’: traffic_conditions,
‘Road Conditions’: road_conditions,
‘Weather Conditions’: weather_conditions,
‘Historical Data (Route A)’: historical_data_route_A,
‘Historical Data (Route B)’: historical_data_route_B,
‘Historical Data (Route C)’: historical_data_route_C
})
# Save DataFrame to CSV
data.to_csv(‘traffic_route_dataset.csv’, index=False)
# Load the dataset
data = pd.read_csv(‘traffic_route_dataset.csv’)
# Convert categorical variables into numerical representations
data = pd.get_dummies(data, columns=[‘Traffic Conditions’, ‘Road Conditions’, 
‘Weather Conditions’])
# Define features and target
X = data[[‘Starting Latitude’, ‘Starting Longitude’, ‘Destination Latitude’,
‘Destination Longitude’,
‘Time of Departure (Hour)’, ‘Time of Departure (Minute)’,
‘Traffic 
Conditions_high’, 
‘Traffic 
Conditions_low’, 
‘Traffic 
Conditions_medium’,

--- Strana 207 ---
‘Road Conditions_accidents’, ‘Road Conditions_construction’, ‘Road
Conditions_normal’,
‘Weather Conditions_clear’, ‘Weather Conditions_partly cloudy’, ‘Weather
Conditions_rainy’]]
y = data[[‘Historical Data (Route A)’, ‘Historical Data (Route B)’, ‘Historical
Data (Route C)’]]
# Split the data into training and testing sets
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.2, 
random_state=42)
# Train a decision tree regressor
clf = DecisionTreeRegressor()
clf.fit(X_train, y_train)
# Make predictions on the test set
predictions = clf.predict(X_test)
# Evaluate the mean squared error of the model
mse = mean_squared_error(y_test, predictions)
print("Mean Squared Error:", mse)
# Visualize the decision tree
plt.figure(figsize=(20,10))
plot_tree(clf, filled=True, feature_names=X.columns)
plt.show()
The Python program shown in Figure 6.10 generates synthetic data
representing various factors influencing route selection in transportation
systems, including starting and destination locations, time of departure,
traffic conditions, road conditions, weather conditions, and historical data
for different routes. After saving the generated dataset, it loads the data,
converts categorical variables into numerical representations, and splits the
dataset into training and testing sets. Subsequently, a decision tree regressor
model is trained on the training data and used to make predictions on the
test set. The mean squared error (MSE) is then calculated to evaluate the
model’s performance. Finally, the program visualizes the trained decision
tree to provide insights into the model’s decision-making process and
feature importance.
The mean squared error (MSE) of the model is approximately 2179.38.
This value represents the average squared difference between the actual
historical data and the predicted values for the test set. A lower MSE
indicates that the model’s predictions are closer to the actual values, while a
higher MSE suggests larger prediction errors. In this case, the MSE value

--- Strana 208 ---
indicates that there is room for improvement in the model’s predictive
performance. Further optimization of the model or exploration of
alternative machine learning algorithms may help reduce the MSE and
enhance the accuracy of route prediction. Figure 6.4 shows the optimum
route.
Figure 6.4: Optimum route.
6.10 NLP and GAI Combined Algorithm Use Cases
Combining NLP and GAI revolutionizes the field of content creation and
personalization. Generative AI models, like GPT-4, can generate high-
quality content for various purposes, including blogs, articles, and reports.
These models leverage vast amounts of data to produce coherent,
contextually appropriate, and grammatically correct text. NLP techniques
further enhance this process by ensuring that the content aligns with the
desired tone and style. In personalized marketing, NLP can analyze user
data to understand preferences and behavior. GAI can then generate tailored
emails, advertisements, and product descriptions, making marketing efforts
more effective and engaging for individual users.

--- Strana 209 ---
The integration of NLP and GAI is transformative in the realm of
customer support and virtual assistants. Advanced chatbots created through
this combination can understand and respond to customer queries in natural
language, providing a seamless user experience. These chatbots are capable
of handling a wide range of customer service tasks, from answering
frequently asked questions to processing transactions. For voice assistants,
NLP enables accurate voice recognition and understanding, while GAI
generates human-like responses. This synergy enhances the functionality
and user experience of voice assistants like Siri, Alexa, and Google
Assistant, making them more adept at managing complex tasks.
In the field of education and training, the combination of NLP and GAI
offers significant advancements. Intelligent tutoring systems utilize NLP to
assess student performance and learning needs. GAI can then generate
personalized study materials, quizzes, and explanations tailored to
individual students. This personalized approach helps in addressing specific
learning gaps and improving overall educational outcomes. In language
learning, NLP can analyze learners’ proficiency and errors, while GAI
generates interactive exercises and conversation practice scenarios. This
combination provides a more immersive and effective language learning
experience.
The healthcare industry benefits greatly from the integration of NLP and
GAI. In clinical documentation, NLP can extract relevant information from
electronic health records and other medical documents. GAI assists by
generating summaries, reports, and treatment recommendations, thereby
reducing the administrative burden on healthcare professionals. Virtual
health assistants created using these technologies can provide health
information, monitor patient symptoms, and offer medical advice based on

--- Strana 210 ---
current health data and medical knowledge. This enhances patient care and
improves access to medical information.
NLP and GAI together streamline processes in the legal and compliance
sectors. In contract analysis, NLP can understand and extract key clauses
from legal documents, while GAI generates summaries and identifies
potential risks. This combination makes the review process more efficient
and accurate. Additionally, GAI can draft new contract sections based on
predefined rules and requirements, saving time and ensuring consistency.
For regulatory compliance, NLP can analyze and interpret complex
regulatory texts, and GAI can generate compliance reports and
documentation, helping organizations stay up-to-date with evolving
regulations.
The creative arts industry is another area where the combination of NLP
and GAI shines. In story and script writing, GAI can generate ideas,
dialogue, and plot structures. NLP ensures that the generated content
maintains coherence and adheres to stylistic guidelines. This collaboration
between AI and human creativity leads to innovative and compelling
narratives. In music and art creation, NLP can analyze existing works to
identify style and patterns, while GAI generates new compositions or
artworks that reflect specific themes. This technology enables artists to
explore new creative possibilities and enhance their artistic expression.
The combination of NLP and GAI significantly enhances data analysis
and insights generation. NLP can process and analyze large volumes of text
data, extracting valuable insights and identifying trends. GAI can then
generate comprehensive reports and visualizations based on these insights,
making it easier for organizations to understand and act on the data. In
sentiment analysis, NLP determines the sentiment expressed in customer
reviews or social media posts. GAI generates summary reports highlighting

--- Strana 211 ---
customer sentiment and key feedback points, providing businesses with
actionable insights to improve their products and services.
Sentiment analysis is a powerful application of NLP and GAI. NLP can
analyze customer reviews, social media posts, and other textual data to
determine the sentiment expressed, whether positive, negative, or neutral.
GAI can then generate detailed summary reports that highlight customer
sentiment trends and key feedback points. These insights are invaluable for
businesses looking to improve their products and services based on
customer opinions. By leveraging this technology, companies can
proactively address customer concerns, enhance user satisfaction, and
maintain a positive brand image.
In financial services, the combination of NLP and GAI offers innovative
solutions for various tasks. For instance, NLP can analyze financial reports,
news articles, and market data to identify trends and opportunities. GAI can
then generate investment recommendations, market forecasts, and risk
assessments. This technology helps financial analysts make more informed
decisions and develop strategies based on comprehensive data analysis.
Additionally, NLP and GAI can be used to create advanced fraud detection
systems that analyze transaction patterns and detect suspicious activities in
real-time, enhancing the security and reliability of financial services.
The integration of NLP and GAI in human resources and recruitment
streamlines and enhances the hiring process. NLP can analyze resumés,
cover letters, and job descriptions to identify the best matches between
candidates and job openings. GAI can generate automated responses,
schedule interviews, and even conduct preliminary screening interviews.
This combination not only saves time for HR professionals but also ensures
a more objective and efficient recruitment process. By leveraging NLP and

--- Strana 212 ---
GAI, organizations can improve their talent acquisition strategies, reduce
bias, and find the best candidates for their needs.

--- Strana 213 ---
Bibliography
1. T. Mariprasath, C.H. Hussaian Basha, Baseem Khan: A novel on high
voltage gain boost converter with cuckoo search optimization based
MPPT Controller for solar PV system. Springer, Scientific Reports :1–
116, 2024
2. CH Hussaian Basha, T. Mariprasath, M. Murali, Shaik Rafikiran:
SimulativeDesignandPerformanceAnalysisofHybridOptimizationTech
nique for PEM Fuel Cell Stack based EV Application. Elsevier,
Materialstoday: Proceedings, 52:290–295, 2022
3. CH Hussaian Basha, M. Murali, Shaik Rafikiran, T. Mariprasath, M.
Bhaskara Reddy: An Improved Differential Evolution Optimization
Controller for Enhancing the Performance of PEM Fuel Cell Powered
Electric Vehicle 
System. 
Elsevier, 
Materialstoday:proceedings,
52:308–314, 2022
4. CH Hussaian Bash, P. Akram, M. Murali, T. Mariprasath, T. Naresh:
Design of an Adaptive Fuzzy Logic Controller for Solar PV
Application with High Step-Up DC–DC Converter. Proceedings of
Fourth International Conference on Inventive Material Science
Applications: 349–360, 2021
5. T. Mariprasath, Shilaja, Hussaian Basha, Murali, Fathima, Aisha :
Design and Analysis of an Improved Artificial Neural Network
Controller for theEnergy Efficiency Enhancement of Wind Power
Plant. Computational Methods and Data Engineering. Lecture Notes on
Data Engineering and Communications Technologies 139: 67–77,
2023

--- Strana 214 ---
6. Hussaian Basha, Mariprasath, Murali, Arpita, C.N., Rafi Kiran: Design
of Adaptive VSS-P&O-Based PSO Controller for PV-Based Electric
Vehicle Application 
with 
Step-up 
Boost 
Converter. 
Pattern
Recognition and Data Analysis with Applications. Lecture Notes in
Electrical Engineering, 888:349-360, 2022.
7. Kumar Reddy Cheepati, T. Nageswara Prasad: Performance
Comparison of Short Term Load Forecasting Techniques International.
Journal of Grid and Distributed Computing 9:287–302, 2016
8. V. Peruthambi, K. R. Cheepati, D. P. Kumar, S. B. Daram, R. A.
Angadi and K. S. Prabha: Forecasting the Open Pool Energy Market
with Facts Devices and Alternative Energy Sources under Contingency
Conditions. 
InternationalConferenceonElectronics,
CommunicationandAerospace Technology, Coimbatore, : 416–421,
2022.
9. Ali, O., Abdelbaki, W., Shrestha, A., Elbasi, E., Alryalat, M. A. A., &
Dwivedi, Y. K. (2023). A systematic literature review of artificial
intelligence 
in 
the 
healthcare 
sector: 
Benefits, 
challenges,
methodologies, and functionalities. Journal of Innovation &
Knowledge 8: 100333.
10. Stahl, Bernd Carsten, Josephina Antoniou, Nitika Bhalla, Laurence
Brooks, Philip Jansen, Blerta Lindqvist, Alexey Kirichenko: A
systematic review of artificial intelligence impact assessments.
Artificial Intelligence Review 56, 11: 12799–12831, 2023.
11. Méndez, Manuel, Mercedes G. Merayo, and Manuel Núñez. Machine
learning algorithms to forecast air quality: a survey. Artificial
Intelligence Review 56, 9 10031–10066: 2023
12. Khan, Razib Hayat, Jonayet Miah, Md Minhazur Rahman, and Maliha
Tayaba: A comparative study of machine learning algorithms for

--- Strana 215 ---
detecting breast cancer. In 2023 IEEE 13th Annual Computing and
Communication Workshop and Conference (CCWC), IEEE 647–652:
2023.
13. Ali, Yasser A., Emad Mahrous Awwad, Muna Al-Razgan, Ali Maarouf:
Hyperparameter search for machine learning algorithms for optimizing
the computational complexity. Processes 11: 349, 2023.

--- Strana 216 ---
Index
A
autoencoders 71, 72, 121, 127, 139
C
convolutional neural networks 6, 24, 29, 140
D
deep learning 2, 3, 4, 5, 53, 72, 93, 102, 114, 139
G
K
Keras 5, 31, 140, 144, 147, 149
M
machine learning 1, 11, 43, 71, 93, 95, 103, 111, 122, 153
N
natural language processing 8, 25, 82, 93, 114, 117
neural networks 6, 11, 14, 24, 29, 44, 72, 90, 108, 122, 131, 139, 143
NLP applications 95, 97, 102, 144
NLTK 8, 103, 104, 105, 112, 118

--- Strana 217 ---
P
perceptron 13, 14, 17, 19, 105
PyTorch 5, 9, 15
R
recurrent neural networks 6, 25, 29, 33, 108, 114, 131, 140, 143
reinforcement learning 1, 43, 97
S
Scikit-learn 2, 3, 27, 36, 47, 61, 143
supervised learning 1, 7, 43, 44, 48, 71, 114, 139
T
TensorFlow 3, 15, 25, 40, 140, 144, 147, 149
U
unsupervised learning 1, 43, 71, 72, 84, 85, 89, 114, 127, 135, 136, 140
V
VAEs 72, 121, 127
