
--- Strana 1 ---
Full Terms & Conditions of access and use can be found at
http://www.tandfonline.com/action/journalInformation?journalCode=tprs20
Download by: [University of Hong Kong Libraries]
Date: 14 July 2017, At: 15:48
International Journal of Production Research
ISSN: 0020-7543 (Print) 1366-588X (Online) Journal homepage: http://www.tandfonline.com/loi/tprs20
Smart manufacturing
Andrew Kusiak
To cite this article: Andrew Kusiak (2017): Smart manufacturing, International Journal of
Production Research, DOI: 10.1080/00207543.2017.1351644
To link to this article:  http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2017.1351644
Published online: 14 Jul 2017.
Submit your article to this journal 
View related articles 
View Crossmark data

--- Strana 2 ---
Smart manufacturing
Andrew Kusiak*
Intelligent Systems Laboratory, Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, The University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA
(Received 21 April 2017; accepted 29 June 2017)
Manufacturing has evolved and become more automated, computerised and complex. In this paper, the origin, current
status and the future developments in manufacturing are disused. Smart manufacturing is an emerging form of produc-
tion integrating manufacturing assets of today and tomorrow with sensors, computing platforms, communication technol-
ogy, control, simulation, data intensive modelling and predictive engineering. It utilises the concepts of cyber-physical
systems spearheaded by the internet of things, cloud computing, service-oriented computing, artiﬁcial intelligence and
data science. Once implemented, these concepts and technologies would make smart manufacturing the hallmark of the
next industrial revolution. The essence of smart manufacturing is captured in six pillars, manufacturing technology and
processes, materials, data, predictive engineering, sustainability and resource sharing and networking. Material handling
and supply chains have been an integral part of manufacturing. The anticipated developments in material handling and
transportation and their integration with manufacturing driven by sustainability, shared services and service quality
and are outlined. The future trends in smart manufacturing are captured in ten conjectures ranging from manufacturing
digitisation and material-product-process phenomenon to enterprise dichotomy and standardisation.
Keywords: smart manufacturing; data mining; automated manufacturing systems; design of production systems;
sustainable manufacturing; product life cycle; intelligent manufacturing systems; transportation; cyber-physical systems
1. Introduction
One of the widely used terms describing the production of tomorrow is smart manufacturing. The volume of publica-
tions on smart manufacturing is rapidly growing. Many publications focus on in-depth coverage of the topics shaping
smart manufacturing. This paper deﬁnes what the author believes are core concepts of importance to smart manufactur-
ing in the hope of streamlining and systemising the growing body of research.
Smart manufacturing has attracted attention of numerous researchers who reported their ﬁndings in the literature.
Thoben, Wiesner, and Wuest (2017) discussed the main characteristics of cyber-physical systems and provided an over-
view of Germany’s Industry 4.0 initiative and manufacturing efforts undertaken in other counties. An attempt was made
to identify relevant research issues. Kang et al. (2016) reviewed the literature related to smart manufacturing and identi-
ﬁed technologies of importance to its progress. In addition, some future trends in smart manufacturing were discussed.
Helu et al. (2016) deﬁned requirements for data-driven decision-making in manufacturing. Based on these requirements,
main technologies and barriers facing implementation of data-driven decision-making in industry were identiﬁed. Lu,
Morris, and Frechette (2016) reported on the standards that may impact products, systems and business aspects of smart
manufacturing. O’Donovan, Bruton, and O’Sullivan (2016) focused on problems facing applications of data analytics in
industry. The authors advocated the use of formal methodologies to develop analytics capability rather than focusing on
prescriptive approaches. The methodology discussed in their paper was demonstrated with a case study. Standards are
important in integration of smart manufacturing technologies facing transformation challenges, some of which were out-
lined in Macke, Rulhoff, and Stjepandic (2016). A tool deployed on mobile devices for initiating queries in support of
incoming changes was discussed. Zhang et al. (2014) overviewed technologies such as cloud computing, internet of
things, service-oriented solutions and high performance computing. It was suggested that they make a cloud manufactur-
ing platform outlined in their paper. Shaﬁq et al. (2015) proposed a framework for knowledge representation of engi-
neering objects incorporating relevant knowledge and experience. It was demonstrated that the framework was a
specialisation of a cyber-physical system. Zhong et al. (2017) discussed the concept of smart manufacturing objects
handled with the internet of things and wireless technologies. Data analytics was applied to study behaviour of smart
manufacturing objects.
*Email: andrew-kusiak@uiowa.edu
© 2017 Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group
International Journal of Production Research, 2017
https://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2017.1351644

--- Strana 3 ---
Besides architectures and concepts of interests to smart manufacturing, research offering speciﬁc models and
algorithms has been initiated. Ivanov et al. (2016) addressed the short-term supply chain scheduling in a smart factory.
A scheduling approach involving non-stationary jobs ﬂow and temporal decomposition was developed. Moon and Park
(2014) offered a scheduling solution for management of energy consumption in manufacturing. Chun and Bidanda
(2013) reviewed the literature on sustainable manufacturing. They raised the issue of sustainability in global manufactur-
ing, design for sustainability, product life-cycle management and green supply chain management.
Cybersecurity is paramount to the progress in smart manufacturing. Kim and Chang (2014) discussed information
leakage vulnerabilities faced by organisations and offered some solutions.
2. The roots of smart manufacturing
The modern era manufacturing has its roots in the past half century. The progress in computer and machine-building
technology has led to automation in manufacturing. Today’s machine tools are largely run by computer programmes
rather than human operators. Materials and components are transported by automated material handling systems and
stored in automated storage and retrieval systems. Depending on the scope and degree of automation of a manufacturing
ﬂoor and the integration of various functional production areas, different terms have been used to describe automated
manufacturing since 1980s, ranging from ﬂexible manufacturing cells and ﬂexible manufacturing systems to computer-
integrated manufacturing and intelligent manufacturing. The last term was coined around 1990 and marked with the
establishment of the Journal of Intelligent Manufacturing (Kusiak 1990a) and publication of the book, Intelligent Manu-
facturing Systems (Kusiak 1990b) both under development for years prior to appearing in print. At about the same time
Japan has embarked on research in intelligent manufacturing that has led to the establishment of the Intelligent Manu-
facturing System (IMS) Programme in support of industrial research in 1995. It was realised that the industry of one
country alone could not reshape manufacturing and that international cooperation was needed. Major companies from
Japan, United States, Korea and European counties have initiated collaborative efforts on the future of manufacturing,
with Japan having the largest number of actively involved corporations. In the United States, much of the IMS activities
have taken place under the umbrella of the Next Generation Manufacturing Systems (NGMS) Programme that was
established as a not-for-proﬁt venture. Later, the IMS Programme was expanded, with the European Union establishing
research efforts in intelligent manufacturing (see Groumpos 1995).
Manufacturing is evolving, and it is bound to take place in different forms. In recent years, the concept of internet
of things has attracted attention of the manufacturing community. It focuses on integration of the physical assets of man-
ufacturing with the cyberspace to form cyber-physical systems. This new concept has been embraced by individual com-
panies, industrial consortia, regions and countries.
There is no generally accepted deﬁnition of smart manufacturing. According to the National Institute of Standards
and Technology (NIST) smart manufacturing is fully integrated, collaborative manufacturing system that respond in real
time to meet changing demands and conditions in the factory, in the supply network and in customer needs.
Smart manufacturing integrates manufacturing assets of today and tomorrow with sensors, computing platforms,
communication technology, data intensive modelling, control, simulation and predictive engineering. Smart manufactur-
ing utilises the concepts of the cyber-physical systems, internet of things (and everything), cloud computing, service-
oriented computing, artiﬁcial intelligence and data science. Once implemented, these overlapping concepts and
technologies will make manufacturing the hallmark of the next industrial revolution.
A general concept of a smart manufacturing enterprise is illustrated in Figure 1.
The concept in Figure 1 includes two basic layers, the manufacturing equipment layer and the cyber layer, linked by
the interface. The manufacturing equipment has its own intelligence, while the system-wide intelligence is provided by
the cyber layer.
Smart manufacturing has attracted attention of industry, government organisations and academia. Various consortia
and discussion groups have been formed to develop architectures, roadmaps, standards and research agenda. The general
concept of smart manufacturing system in Figure 1 needs to be translated in architectures that are quite speciﬁc. Efforts
are under way to develop such architectures. The general concept in Figure 1 is intended to support the ideas presented
in this paper rather than offering a new enterprise architecture.
3. Pillars of smart manufacturing
Smart manufacturing has been inspired by the concepts largely developed in the realm of computing. Though manufac-
turing will continue beneﬁt from these concepts and other ideas that will emerge (e.g. quantum computing could be a
major disruptor), it has its own identity captured in six pillars that are discussed next (see Figure 2). They are neither
2
A. Kusiak

--- Strana 4 ---
exhaustive nor stationary. The ultimate pillars will be deﬁned by the research, technology development and applications
that will emerge in the future. The ultimate pillars could be formally deﬁned in number of ways, including clustering of
the research papers, industrial reports and information about new technology with text and data mining algorithms.
The six pillars of smart manufacturing are manufacturing technology and processes, materials, data, predictive engi-
neering, sustainability and resource sharing and networking. The names and the degree of importance of these six pillars
have been changing, however, they have been around manufacturing throughout its history. For example, data has been
an integral part of manufacturing. In the era of smart manufacturing it has become big data. Production planning and
forecasting have preceded predictive engineering versed in data science of today.
Details of the six pillars of smart manufacturing are discussed next.
Pillar 1: Manufacturing technology and processes
The emergence of manufacturing technologies and processes are expected in future years. New materials, compo-
nents and products will emerge (Kusiak 2016a). Additive manufacturing can serve as an example of a new technology
that has prompted the development of new materials, impacted the design and manufacture of products and opened
doors to new applications such as biomanufacturing. Manufacturing tools have been designed to integrate various opera-
tions, e.g. machines that are capable of horizontal and vertical milling as well as drilling (a machining centre). New
hybrid processes will emerge, e.g. hybrids of traditional and additive processes, laser and net-shape manufacturing.
Greater integration of processes will occur, e.g. integration of new materials, product design, manufacturing processes,
such as discovery of a chemical compound leading to design of a new medication and a delivery device, as well as the
manufacture of medication and the device. Big and small area additive manufacturing will expand its prominence in the
factories. New generation of low cost robots will enhance factory automation. Sensors and software capabilities will
make the new manufacturing equipment smarter and amenable to factory and beyond communication.
Interface                                        Standard connectivity 
Cyberspace                                    System  intelligence   
Data
Decisions
Data
Decisions
Manufacturing equipment                    Local intelligence
Figure 1.
General concept of a smart manufacturing enterprise.
Materials
Sustainability
Resource 
sharing and 
networking
Predictive 
engineering
Data
Smart manufacturing
Manufacturing 
technology and 
processes
Figure 2.
Six pillars of smart manufacturing.
International Journal of Production Research
3

--- Strana 5 ---
Pillar 2: Materials
Smart manufacturing does not make a special call for the development of smart materials, e.g. shape memory alloys
or functionally graded materials. It may well be that smart materials and smart products will follow their own develop-
ment paths. Smart manufacturing is open to all types of materials, including organic-based materials and biomaterials,
needed to produce future products. The signiﬁcance of recovering materials from products at the end of their lifecycle
will increase. It is conceivable that landﬁlls will become new mines of various materials. Some new materials will
require novel processes that must be developed and incorporated in smart manufacturing. Additive manufacturing alone
will be a great contributor to the search for new materials and their mixes.
Pillar 3: Data
We are witnessing the renaissance of data in manufacturing. Some of it has been triggered by deployment of sensors,
wireless technology and the progress in data analytics. Greater collection of data from diverse sources, ranging from
material properties and process parameters to customers and suppliers has begun. The data will be used to power any
application to be envisioned, including building predictive models. Moreover, it will be the best source for preserving
and extraction of past and new knowledge related to manufacturing.
Pillar 4: Predictive engineering
Predictive engineering is one of the latest additions to the space of manufacturing solutions that will lead to an antici-
patory rather than reactive enterprise. Traditionally, the manufacturing industry has focused on using data for analysis,
monitoring and control, e.g. productivity analysis, process monitoring and quality control. Six sigma and other data-anal-
ysis concepts have had tremendous impact on advances in the quality of manufactured products and services. However,
for the most part, traditional efforts have emphasised the past over the future states of manufacturing processes and sys-
tems. Predictive engineering offers a new paradigm of constructing high-ﬁdelity models (digital representations) of the
phenomena of interest. Such models will allow exploring future spaces, some within the realm of the existing technology
and others that have not been seen previously. In the future, today’s models will be enriched with both limited-scope
models (e.g. behaviour of a supply chain) and those that involve multiple systems (e.g. models that integrate productivity,
product quality, energy and transport) to support decisions concerning future production and market conditions. Such
wide-scope models may contribute to restructuring the manufacturing industry. It is conceivable that some manufacturing
will become highly distributed and some may be centralised. For example, products that are sensitive to the transportation
cost, time-to-market and customisation could be produced at locations in the proximity to the customers.
Pillar 5: Sustainability
Sustainability will be of paramount importance in manufacturing. The goals of sustainability efforts will be materi-
als, manufacturing processes, energy and pollutants attributed to manufacturing. The entry points of any major sustain-
ability effort are the product and the market. There is no doubt that the greatest sustainability gains are accomplished
when the development of products and processes is guided by the sustainability criteria. Examples of possible scenarios
include: (i) sustainable product design will drive manufacturing, (ii) sustainable manufacturing processes will impact the
design of products and (iii) simultaneous development of sustainable materials, products and processes will take place.
Additive manufacturing represents the second scenario in which a process has resulted in new designs of components
and products.
Sustainability is not about what is manufactured but how it is performed. It is the main force behind providing equal
footing for remanufacturing, reconditioning and reuse with manufacturing. Because of sustainability, the line between
manufacturing and service will remain blurry. For example, reconditioning a used product is not a traditional manufac-
turing activity, however, it may enter the new manufacturing dictionary.
Pillar 6: Resource sharing and networking
As manufacturing is becoming digital and virtual, much of the creative and decision-making activities will take place
in the digital space. While at some level the digital space may be highly transparent, the physical manufacturing assets
with their know-how will be protected. This digital-physical separation will allow for shared use of resources across
businesses, including the ones that compete.
The manufacturing industry has been exposed to service and contract models with production taking place at facili-
ties operated by a third party. The rapid manufacturing (a predecessor of 3D printing) service model was established
decades ago as a result of the high cost of technology, low utilisation, learning curve and uncertainly about utility of the
technology. Shared resource models have seen success and are expanding from sharing rides aimed at reducing highway
trafﬁc to Uber in transportation and Airbnb in accommodation services. Smart manufacturing is likely to beneﬁt from
these concepts to share manufacturing equipment, software, expertise and most importantly, the collaborative modelling
and creativity space (Kusiak 2017b).
While the logistics of leasing manufacturing equipment and sharing commercial software could follow the existing
models, sharing the creativity space is a challenge. Application of the principles similar to those of Facebook and
4
A. Kusiak

--- Strana 6 ---
Wikipedia to various areas of manufacturing is not easy and will likely take decades to realise. All sharing transactions
will be accomplished in the space populated with digital models rather than physical assets.
Besides the manufacturing equipment, transport is a meaningful resource that deserves attention. There are two
broad categories of transport in manufacturing: internal, involving specialised material handling equipment or various
tracks and external, which serves the supply and distribution chain. From the manufacturing accounting point of view,
transport is generally considered as a non-value-adding activity. This triggers a thought that minimising the distances
travelled would not only reduce the cost, but also have a positive environmental impact. Developments in robotics and
autonomous vehicles (from surface to air) will impact the internal and external manufacturing transport by increasing its
degree of autonomy and sharing. Transport will be an important factor in evolving the spatial conﬁguration of manufac-
turing on a regional and global scale.
3.1 Beyond the manufacturing tradition
The manufacturing of the future will naturally expand into non-traditional areas such as:
• Healthcare largely driven by the need to customise products, from the implants and medications to the hospital
and home care supplies;
• Biomanufacturing fueled by the promise of tissue and organ printing.
Both small area additive manufacturing (e.g. surgical equipment) and large area additive manufacturing (e.g. hospital
beds, furniture) will be the key drivers in the healthcare industry.
In addition, the domains that might have been considered as marginal will gain more prominence, e.g.:
• Remanufacturing and reconditioning are bounded to grow especially when novel design practices will be
deployed;
• Disassembly and reuse will become growing contributors to the circular economy.
Sustainability, increasing cost of traditional materials and limited availability of traditional materials (e.g. rare metals)
will support the circular economy.
4. Material handling and transport of materials, components, products and people
Material handling and transport are inherent functional areas of manufacturing involving distances measured in nanome-
ter to kilometre scale. Both support manufacturing processes and shipment across different plants and around the globe.
While material handing is usually used to describe the movement of material in a factory, transport is associated the
movement of materials, components and products through supply chains covering regions, counties and continents (see
Figure 3). Material handling and transportation can be signiﬁcant contributors to the product cost, e.g. 8% of the cost of
a wind turbine tower is attributed to the transport (Cotrell et al. 2014) and higher percentage (e.g. 20%) to other compo-
nents.
It is likely that due to the distributed nature of manufacturing, transport of materials, components, products and peo-
ple will become a signiﬁcant cost item in production. This will naturally lead to optimisation of the transportation and
utilisation cost of personnel supporting the physical and digital infrastructure at multiple manufacturing facilities. Job
description that do not exist today, will be created to meet the smart manufacturing tasks. Similar to components,
Supply network
Smart manufacturing
enterprise
Distribution network
Material handling
Transport
Transport
Figure 3.
Integration of manufacturing with supply and distribution chain.
International Journal of Production Research
5

--- Strana 7 ---
e.g. differentiating the products, manufacturing specialists could be travelling in large numbers using different modes of
transportation from cars to trains and plains. As discussed later in this paper, analogous to the manufacturing resources,
human resources are likely to be shared in large numbers. The efﬁciency of transporting materials, components, products
and people will impact the manufacturing cost. Transportation and communication are the cornerstone of global connec-
tivity in manufacturing. Irrespective of the ownership, transportation is likely to become an integral part of smart manu-
facturing due to: (i) greater reliance on the movement of materials, components, products and service personnel driven
by personalised needs, (ii) sustainability; (iii) quality of service. Transportation networks involving the supply side and
distribution (including customer delivery) similar to the one shown in Figure 3 are likely to play a meaningful role.
Limiting the sustainability consideration to the manufacturing envelope, would provide a suboptimal solution due to
interconnectivity of manufacturing with the supply and distribution network trade-offs. The quality of customer service
is tightly connected to the inventory level, manufacturing response time and transportation.
4.1 Smart vehicles
Many material handling and transportation vehicles operating today send and receive data. The vehicle connectivity will
become more intense, with greater participation in the information exchange, e.g. vehicle-to-vehicle communication or
vehicle-to-maintenance centre for remote diagnostic and repair. In fact, machine tools are likely to follow the same path
of communications supporting condition monitoring and production.
The vehicle technology circle in Figure 4 classiﬁes transportation vehicles based on the vehicle/fuel type and vehicle
automation/use. Vehicles based on any combination of the vehicle/fuel type and vehicle automation/use attribute are cap-
tured. For example, it is obvious that a vehicle can be autonomous and electric. This applies to material handling sys-
tems, personal cars, trucks and mass transit. It appears that the technology is naturally gravitating towards linking the
notion of transportation, energy and sustainability with manufacturing. Vehicle of any type, e.g. a forklift, a car, a truck
or a long-distance train, can be electric and autonomous. In addition, vehicles could be shared.
To date, the batteries of electric vehicles are charged by electricity that is usually generated by traditional power
plants. In the future, vehicles will use electricity generated from renewable sources, e.g. wind turbine-produced electric-
ity or hydrogen, and they will be designed for sustainability, including energy efﬁciency. An energy-efﬁcient vehicle
will use less material and its geometry will be shaped to reduce aerodynamic drag. At the end of its life, most of its
components will be reused and remanufactured. To date, the subject of the sustainable design of electric vehicles has
received limited attention. Perhaps the vehicle industry is overly preoccupied with making a successful entry in the
autonomous market.
This concept of vehicle connectivity is not new. It has existed in the domain of public transportation for a long time.
In the mass-transit domain, it was implemented in two forms, i.e. the physical and information connectivity. A train is a
physically connected vehicle with over-the-wire or wireless communication. The beneﬁts of the traditional connectivity
may apply to the new generation of vehicles and material handling solutions. Similar to machine tools, vehicles can be
connected physically or virtually. The virtual connection can be accomplished in several ways, ranging from the
vehicle-to-vehicle communication to the trafﬁc control level. A connected vehicle is a natural result of the evolution in
productivity, efﬁciency and safety of transportation. For example, similar to manufacturing where one operator may
operate multiple machines, having one driver per many vehicles offers a cost advantage.
The idea of shared transportation in the personal-vehicle domain has existed for years. The reward for shared trans-
portation usually was in the form of access to a less-congested lane on the highway. The owner of the vehicle generally
Traditional vehicle
Fossil fuel
Electric vehicle
Non-renewable electricity
Electric vehicle
Renewable energy
Sustainable vehicle design
Renewable energy
Semi-autonomous
Autonomous
Connected
Shared
Traditional
Vehicle type/
Fuel type
Vehicle automation/
Use mode
Figure 4.
Vehicle classiﬁcation based on vehicle/fuel type and vehicle automation/use.
6
A. Kusiak

--- Strana 8 ---
is one of the passengers. Shared group transportation is a well-established practice, ranging from small groups (e.g. six
to ten people in a van) to a mass transit system.
Using a vehicle that we own for personal transportation is inefﬁcient from the standpoint of energy and cost. The
utilisation of personal vehicles is usually low. We tend not to think that way, however, when what we really need is a
transportation service, without necessarily owning a vehicle. Subscribing to the transportation service concept offers
increased utilisation of vehicles and reduces transportation costs. The increased utilisation, in turn, reduces the number
of vehicles on the roads, thus having a positive impact on the trafﬁc congestion and environment.
We are not that far from being on the top of the vehicle technology circle in Figure 4. The capacity of the batteries
is expanding. At present it is sufﬁcient for most trips driven. All major manufacturing companies, including Ford,
BMW and Volvo, promise to deliver driverless cars (in some cases without a steering wheel and pedals) in the next few
years. Irrespectively of the level of autonomy, a future vehicle will be more automated, connected, energy efﬁcient and
safer to drive. He hope is that electricity generated from renewable sources will power the vehicles and factories. The
factories will use renewable materials to manufacture components that meet the transportation needs.
There is no magic switch and time for changeover from the transport of today to the autonomous one. Neither there
is no clearly articulated goal for the level of autonomy. As with any new technology the transport autonomy will follow
a process beginning with some niche implementations and gradually expanding to most suitable domains, e.g. manufac-
turing supply and distribution chains.
The missing link that prevents connecting the dots between autonomous, personal, shared and sustainable transporta-
tion is the human factors, rather than technology. In the vehicle-sharing mode, the difference between the personal and
the mass-transportation modes may not be clear. Clearly, transportation is more economical when the materials and pas-
senger loads and grouped, e.g. two connected trucks, rather than multiple vehicles with limited load in each vehicle.
Besides being autonomous, vehicles are becoming more reliable. Predictive engineering solutions will anticipate
future events, ranging from a component of the vehicle that may need repair to a potential accident. The on-board deci-
sion system will offer the best options to proceed in order to avoid a component failure or an accident impacting the
delivery time. All disruptions will be communicated to the manufacturing facilities that might be affected by the trans-
port.
Different forms and modes of transportation will be used to support the supply and distribution chains of manufac-
turing. A shared mode of transportation is likely to be applied to move experts servicing the manufacturing systems, as
well as materials, parts and products.
5. The future of smart manufacturing
Smart manufacturing offers opportunities and challenges. The greatest challenge could be in the acceptance of the
emerging manufacturing reality and change. A new wave of factory automation will be supported by the next generation
of low-cost robotics. This alone will create new ‘cyber’ jobs rather than traditional jobs. The conversion of blue-collar
jobs into white-collar jobs is not new, yet it is a challenge every time it happens. The ‘cyber’ part of the smart factory,
in itself, is an enterprise within the enterprise, with jobs descriptions to be deﬁned and a workforce to be trained by the
educational establishments. The better we understand the future needs, the better smart enterprise will function.
The transformation of the manufacture of today to the manufacture of the future is an enormous task. No single cor-
poration can be effective in accomplishing all tasks on its own due to the market and technology uncertainty. The items
actions needed for smart manufacturing to be successful are outlined in Kusiak (2017b).
Smart manufacturing is evolving and its speciﬁcs will emerge in years to come. Some of the characteristics of the
future manufacturing are captured by the ten conjectures outlined next. For each conjecture a brief justiﬁcation of pro-
vided. The conjectures are intended to capture the essence of smart manufacturing. Some of them may become validated
or become less prominent of even discarded over time, while new conjectures may be formed. They may enhance
understanding of the core manufacturing issues as well as capture trends and changes affecting smart manufacturing.
Conjecture 1: Manufacturing digitalisation
Manufacturing will be increasingly dependent on data which implies than more data needs to be collected.
Justiﬁcation: The increased use of data is already happening in many manufacturing sectors. One of the practices
manufacturing could beneﬁt from is that of wind energy industry where supervisory control and data acquisition
(SCADA) systems have been used (Kusiak 2016b) to store large volumes of data on process parameters. SCADA solu-
tions offer a convenient way of capturing, storing and sharing process data.
Conjecture 2: Increased reliance on modelling, optimisation and simulation
The growing volume of data (Conjecture 1) in smart manufacturing will naturally open doors to delivery of value
from the data.
International Journal of Production Research
7

--- Strana 9 ---
Justiﬁcation: Data-driven modelling approaches will gain prominence as they allow to integrate parameters across
different domains (e.g. product, process and logistics) into models that would be difﬁcult to build with traditional
methodologies (e.g. mathematical programming). Dynamic predictive models will be frequent occurrences in smart man-
ufacturing. Virtual, augmented reality and predictive models will become routine constructs.
Conjecture 3: Material-product-process phenomenon
The number of instances with the new material, process and product developed simultaneously will grow.
Justiﬁcation: Some of the past innovations have taken place when a new material and a process had been created at
the same time. In is likely that in the future the development of materials, processes and products will lead to innova-
tions, e.g. design of a 3D printed part will be optimised in conjunction with a new material and a process.
Conjecture 4: Vertical separability of the physical assets and the cyberspace
In many smart enterprises the physical layer and the logistics layer (see Figure 1) will be designed for the ease and
speed of connecting and disconnecting from each other. The vertical reparability will be largely attributed to the need of
reconﬁguration of the physical assets.
Justiﬁcation: The growing need to conﬁgure and reconﬁgure physical assets to better support the changing product
needs supported by the expanding digitisation and standardisation will lead to new system architectures. The new archi-
tecting will be characterised by the ease of vertical separability of the physical and the cyber layer of an enterprise.
Conjecture 5: Enterprise dichotomy
Two extreme smart enterprise models are likely to emerge, one where the physical assets and logistics are tightly
connected (of the type in Conjecture 3) and the other with vertical separability of the two layers (Conjecture 4).
Justiﬁcation: The tight vertical connectivity or vertical separabilty models (a dichotomy) may emerge in the spirit of
Conjecture 3 and Conjecture 4, respectively.
Conjecture 6: Greater horizontal connectivity and interoperability
The degree of horizontal internal and external connectivity and interoperability of smart manufacturing enterprises
will increase.
Justiﬁcation: This will be driven by the need to reconﬁgure the physical and logistics assets within an enterprise and
among different enterprises. Standardisation (Conjecture 9) will serve as an enabler in both layers. The growing volume
and ﬂow rate of data across a modern enterprise will naturally lead to adopting solutions supporting greater horizontal
connectivity and interoperability of the systems accommodating the data ﬂow.
Conjecture 7: Resource sharing
Sharing manufacturing and transportation resources across manufacturing chains will become a common practice.
Justiﬁcation: The unprecedented degree of horizontal connectivity of smart enterprises (Conjecture 6) combined with
the dynamics of the markets will facilitate sharing manufacturing equipment, transportation and other resources. Innova-
tion of manufacturing equipment could beneﬁt from resource sharing as companies may purchase equipment based on
an explicit assumption that it will be shared.
Conjecture 8: Equipment monitoring, diagnosis and repair autonomy
Diagnosis and prediction of equipment faults will become routine in smart manufacturing. In some cases autono-
mous repair may take place.
Justiﬁcation: Monitoring of equipment generates data (Conjecture 1) supporting the diagnostic models (Conjecture
2) deployed to monitor and predict health status of the equipment and systems. Preventing faults from occurring and
anticipation of the future faults will become a common practice.
Conjecture 9: Standardisation and collaboration
Collaborative development of standards may naturally emerge to meet the emerging needs of integration and inter-
connectivity of enterprises.
Justiﬁcation: The growing reliance on data (Conjecture 1), resource sharing (Conjecture 7) and the need for vertical
separabilty (Conjecture 4) and horizontal connectivity and interoperability (Conjecture 6) will drive the need for stan-
dardisation and collaboration. The complexity of the tasks at hand will likely enhance collaboration. It would be useful
to have parametric standards reﬂecting the readiness of an enterprise for horizontal and vertical connectivity and interop-
erability. Based on these metrics, an enterprise could be assigned a class, e.g. Class 4 (out of ﬁve classes) enterprise
could easily engage in business with any other Class 4 or lower enterprises. Such standard would speed up enterprise
reconﬁgurability and integration.
Conjecture 10: Cybersecurity and safety
Cybersecurity and safety issues will remain a challenge to be continuously addressed.
Justiﬁcation: Growing volumes and reliance on data (Conjecture 1) make cybersecurity paramount to the progress in
smart manufacturing and business competitiveness. This is especially important as data assets will become a growing
indicator of the market value of a company. The increasing degree of automation and system autonomy will raise the
8
A. Kusiak

--- Strana 10 ---
importance of human and machine safety. Condition monitoring solutions and warning systems (Conjecture 8) will gain
importance. In fact, the commonality between solutions developed for equipment diagnosis and cybersecurity may be
explored.
5.1 How to accelerate the smart manufacturing transformation?
A viable approach to increase effectiveness of the manufacturing transformation is in large-scale collaboration on the
core issues attributed to the industries with the largest societal impact. Creation of an open development platform
involving key industries could enable such collaboration, including development of data-driven models.
There is no doubt that open platforms will be realised at different scales. Research on collaborative manufacturing
networks has demonstrated the value of tools in joint international projects. However, expanding the scope and scaling
up the collaborative modelling tasks makes it a worthwhile effort. As in any collaborative venture, trust and revealing
of information must be overcome. Getting deeper insights into the trust at smaller scale platforms would be the initial
step to address sharing information and knowledge. Modelling at different scales is needed to attract industry, small and
large, to a common collaboration table. In fact, making sure that small and medium enterprises join the table with large
corporations is critical. The degree of engagement of small and medium size businesses in designing the enterprise of
the future is variable across the world. While the small business entrepreneurship initiatives generally prevail in the Uni-
ted States, Asia and Europe have shown more interests in issues affecting the functioning small businesses. To make the
progress diversity of ideas, cultures, needs and openness are needed. More details of the manufacturing transformation
are discussed in Kusiak (2017a).
5.2 Special note
The year 2017 marks publication of the 55th volume of the International Journal of Production Research (IJPR). The
history of the journal dates to 1961, when it was launched by the Institution of Production Engineers with four issues
published. No volume was published in 1962, rather Volume 2 of IJPR appeared in 1963.
Subsequently Volume 25 with ten issues was published in 1987. This was the decade of ﬂexible automation that
remains of interest to many companies and research groups to these days.
Volume 50 with 24 issues appeared in 2012. Massive outsourcing and offshoring efforts dominated the manufactur-
ing industry, lean production initiatives have blossomed and supply chain research was in a full swing.
Recent years have brought a renewed interest in manufacturing. Volume 55 of 2017 marks the reversal of some of
the manufacturing initiatives followed in the previous years, e.g. rather than the offshore manufacturing, reshoring is
taking place. Energy, sustainability, big data and cybersecurity dominate the news. It is reasonable to assume that vol-
umes 75 and 100 will be published in 2037 and 2062, respectively. The new research directions will likely be discussed
in the papers to come.
The Editorial published in the inaugural issue of the IJPR in 1961 presented a vision for the research to be dissemi-
nated. It included keywords such as production process, production policy, planning and control, productivity measure-
ments and technology. There should be no surprise that the keywords such as computers and artiﬁcial intelligence that
are prominent today were not mentioned then as they were in their infancy. Later years have offered progress in manu-
facturing technology, automation, computerisation, sensor proliferation, communication and cyber technologies that have
made the manufacturing of today and shape the manufacturing of tomorrow.
6. Conclusion
Automated factories were envisioned and demonstrated decades ago. In general, the industry has retreated from pursuing
the vision of total automation for valid business reasons. There is no doubt that some smart factories will be highly
automated. However, smart manufacturing is not about the degree of automation of the manufacturing ﬂoor; it is about
autonomy, evolution, simulation and optimisation of the manufacturing enterprise. The scope and time horizon of the
simulation and optimisation will depend on the availability of data and tools. The level of ‘smartness’ of a manufactur-
ing enterprise will be determined by the degree to which the physical enterprise has been reﬂected in the cyber space.
This paper offers a vision of smart manufacturing. Its essence was encapsulated in six pillars differentiating it from
the manufacturing as we know it. The pillars were supported with ten conjectures characterising smart manufacturing. A
special anniversary note was included.
International Journal of Production Research
9

--- Strana 11 ---
Disclosure statement
No potential conﬂict of interest was reported by the author.
References
Chun, Y., and B. Bidanda. 2013. “Sustainable Manufacturing and the Role of the International Journal of Production Research.”
International Journal of Production Research 51 (23–24): 7448–7455.
Cotrell, J., T. Stehly, J. Johnson, J. O. Roberts, Z. Parker, G. Scott, and D. Heimiller. 2014. Analysis of Transportation and Logistics
Challenges Affecting the Deployment of Larger Wind Turbines: Summary of Results, US Department of Energy, Technical
Report NREL/TP-5000-61063.
Groumpos, P. P. 1995. “The Challenge of Intelligent Manufacturing Systems (IMS): The European IMS Information Event.” Journal
of Intelligent Manufacturing 6 (1): 67–77.
Helu, M., D. Libes, J. Lunell, K. Lyons, and K. C. Moris. 2016. “Enabling Smart Manufacturing Technologies for Decision-Making
Support.” Proceedings of the ASME 2016 International Design Engineering Technical Conferences & Computers and Informa-
tion in Engineering Conference IDETC/CIE, Charlotte, NC. 1–10. August 21–24.
Ivanov, D., A. Dolgui, B. Sokolov, F. Werner, and M. Ivanova. 2016. “A Dynamic Model and an Algorithm for Short-term Supply
Chain Scheduling in the Smart Factory Industry 4.0.” International Journal of Production Research 54 (2): 386–402.
Kang, H. S., J. Y. Lee, S. S. Choi, H. Kim, J. H. Park, and J. Y. Son. 2016. “Smart Manufacturing: Past Research, Present Findings,
and Future Directions.” International Journal of Precision Engineering and Manufacturing-Green Technology 3 (1): 111–128.
Kim, Y.-H., and H.-B. Chang. 2014. “The Industrial Security Management Model for SMBs in Smart Work.” Journal of Intelligent
Manufacturing 25 (2): 319–327.
Kusiak, A. 1990a. “Editorial.” Journal of Intelligent Manufacturing 1 (1): 1.
Kusiak, A. 1990b. Intelligent Manufacturing Systems. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.
Kusiak, A. 2016a. “Put Innovation Science at the Heart of Discovery.” Nature 530 (7590): 255–255.
Kusiak, A. 2016b. “Share Data on Wind Energy.” Nature 529 (7584): 19–21.
Kusiak, A. 2017a. “A Four-part Plan for Smart Manufacturing.” ISE Magazine 49 (7): 43–47.
Kusiak, A. 2017b. “Smart Manufacturing Must Embrace Big Data.” Nature 544 (7648): 23–25.
Lu, Y., K. C. Morris, and S. Frechette. 2016. “Current Standards Landscape for Smart Manufacturing Systems, National Institute of
Standards and Technology.” Report No. NISTIR 8107. doi:10.6028/NIST.IR.8107.
Macke, N., S. Rulhoff, and J. Stjepandic. 2016. “Advances in Smart Manufacturing Change Management.” In Transdisciplinary Engi-
neering: Crossing Boundaries, edited by M. Borsato, N. Wognum, M. Peruzzini, J. Stjepandić, and W. J. C. Verhagen, 318–
328. IOS Press, (open access publication). doi:10.3233/978-1-61499-703-0-318.
Moon, J.-Y., and J. Park. 2014. “Smart Production Scheduling with Time-dependent and Machine-dependent Electricity Cost by
Considering Distributed Energy Resources and Energy Storage.” International Journal of Production Research 52 (13):
3922–3939.
O’Donovan, P., K. Bruton, and D. T. J. O’Sullivan. 2016. “Case Study: The Implementation of a Data-driven Industrial Analytics
Methodology and Platform for Smart Manufacturing.” International Journal of Prognostics and Health Management 7: 1–21.
Shaﬁq, S. I., C. Sanin, C. Toro, and E. Szczerbicki. 2015. “Virtual Engineering Object (VEO): Toward Experience-based Design and
Manufacturing for Industry 4.0.” Cybernetics and Systems 46 (1–2): 35–50.
Thoben, K.-D., S. Wiesner, and T. Wuest. 2017. “‘Industrie 4.0’ and Smart Manufacturing – A Review of Research Issues and Appli-
cation Examples.” International Journal of Automation Technology 11 (1): 4–16.
Zhang, L., Y.-L. Luo, F. Tao, B.-H. Li, L. Ren, and X. Zhang. 2014. “Cloud Manufacturing: A New Manufacturing Paradigm.” Enter-
prise Information Systems 8 (2): 167–187.
Zhong, R. Y., C. Xu, C. Chen, and G. Q. Huang. 2017. “Big Data Analytics for Physical Internet-based Intelligent Manufacturing
Shop Floors.” International Journal of Production Research 55 (9): 2610–2621.
10
A. Kusiak
